
10-K
1
d311525d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-K 
 


x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 
or   


¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Commission file number: 001-12537  QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
  






 California
  
 95-2888568

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
  
(IRS Employer Identification No.)




 18111 Von Karman Avenue, Suite 700, Irvine, California
  
 92612

(Address of principal executive offices)
  
(Zip Code)
 (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) 
(949) 255-2600 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value
  
 NASDAQ Global Select Market

Title of each class
  
Name of each exchange on which registered
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None  Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).  Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  ¨ 


Table of Contents
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 










Large accelerated filer  x
 
Accelerated filer  ¨
 
Non-accelerated filer  ¨
 
Smaller reporting company  ¨


 

 
(Do not check if a smallerreporting company)
 

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).  Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of September 30, 2011: $1,910,449,000 (based on the closing sales
price of the Registrant’s common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date of $48.50 per share).*  The Registrant has no
non-voting common equity.  The number of outstanding shares of the Registrant’s common stock as of May 21, 2012 was 59,294,619 shares.
  


*
For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in addition to those shareholders which fall within the definition of “affiliates” under Rule 405 of the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, holders of ten percent or more of the Registrant’s common stock are deemed to be affiliates for purposes of this Report.  Documents Incorporated by Reference  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2012 annual meeting
of shareholders are  incorporated by reference into Part III. 
   
 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC.  TABLE OF CONTENTS  2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K 
     










Item
 
  
  
Page
 

Part I
  





Item 1.
 
Business
  
 
4
  





Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
  
 
16
  





Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
32
  





Item 2.
 
Properties
  
 
32
  





Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
  
 
32
  





Item 4.
 
Mine and Safety Disclosures
  
 
32
  



Part II
  





Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
32
  





Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
  
 
36
  





Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
37
  





Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks
  
 
65
  





Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
65
  





Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
65
  





Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
  
 
65
  





Item 9B.
 
Other Information
  
 
66
  



Part III
  





Item 10.
 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
66
  





Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
  
 
67
  





Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
67
  





Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
67
  





Item 14.
 
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
67
  



Part IV
  





Item 15.
 
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
68
  






 
Signatures
  
 
71
  

  3 


Table of Contents
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT  This Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Report”) and certain information incorporated herein by reference contain forward-looking statements within the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements included or incorporated by reference in this Report, other than statements that are purely historical, are forward-looking statements. Words such as “anticipate,”
“expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,” “may,” and similar expressions also identify
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, discussions of our product development plans, business strategies, future operations, financial condition and prospects, developments in and the impacts of
government regulation and legislation and market factors influencing our results. Our expectations, beliefs, objectives, intentions and strategies regarding our future results are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and
uncertainties, both foreseen and unforeseen, that could cause actual results to differ materially from results contemplated in our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to continue to
develop new products and increase systems sales in markets characterized by rapid technological evolution, consolidation, and competition from larger, better-capitalized competitors. Many other economic, competitive, governmental and technological
factors could affect our ability to achieve our goals, and interested persons are urged to review the risks factors discussed in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report, as well as in our other public disclosures and filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Because of these risk factors, as well as other variables affecting our financial condition and results of operations, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future
performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. We assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements,
which speak only as of the date of the filing of this Report.  PART I 
 


ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  Company Overview
 Quality Systems, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries operate as four business divisions (the “Divisions”) and an
India-based offshore captive, and is comprised of: (i) the QSI Dental Division, which includes ViaTrack Systems, LLC (“ViaTrack”); (ii) the NextGen Division, which consists of NextGen Healthcare Information Systems, LLC
(“NextGen”); (iii) the Hospital Solutions Division (formerly Inpatient Solutions), which includes Opus Healthcare Solutions, LLC (“Opus”); (iv) the RCM Services Division (formerly Practice Solutions), which consists of
NextGen Practice Solutions, LLC (“Practice Solutions”) and (v) Quality Systems India Healthcare Private Limited (“QSIH”) (collectively, the “Company”, “we”, “our”, or “us”). We
primarily derive revenue by developing and marketing healthcare information systems that automate certain aspects of medical and dental practices, networks of practices such as physician hospital organizations (“PHOs”) and management
service organizations (“MSOs”), ambulatory care centers, community health centers and medical and dental schools along with comprehensive systems implementation, maintenance and support and add on complementary services such as revenue
cycle management (“RCM”) and electronic data interchange (“EDI”). Our systems and services provide our clients with the ability to redesign patient care and other workflow processes while improving productivity through the
facilitation of managed access to patient information. Utilizing our proprietary software in combination with third-party hardware and software solutions, our products enable the integration of a variety of administrative and clinical information
operations.  Quality Systems, Inc. was incorporated in California in 1974. Our principal offices are located at 18111 Von Karman Ave.,
Suite 700, Irvine, California, 92612. We operate on a fiscal year ending on March 31. 
  4 


Table of Contents
The Company was founded with an early focus on providing information systems to dental group
practices. This focus area would later become the QSI Dental Division. In the mid-1980’s, we capitalized on the increasing focus on medical cost containment and further expanded our information processing systems to serve the medical market. In
the mid-1990’s, we made two acquisitions that accelerated our penetration of the medical market and formed the basis for the NextGen Division. Today, we serve the dental markets through our QSI Dental Division, physician practice, inpatient and
RCM services through NextGen Division, Hospital Solutions Division and RCM Services Division.  The Divisions operate largely as
stand-alone operations, with each Division maintaining its own distinct product lines, product platforms, development, implementation and support teams and branding. However, there are a small but growing number of customers who are simultaneously
utilizing software or services from more than one of our Divisions. In an effort to encourage this cross selling of our products and services between Divisions, we are in the process of further integrating our ambulatory and inpatient products to
provide a more robust and comprehensive platform to offer our customers. The Divisions also share the resources of our “corporate office,” which includes a variety of accounting and other administrative functions. 
The QSI Dental Division and NextGen Division develop and market practice management software that is designed to automate and streamline a number of
the administrative functions required for operating a medical or dental practice, such as patient scheduling and billing. It is important to note that since in both the medical and dental environments, practice management software systems have
already been implemented by the vast majority of practices, we actively compete for the replacement market. The QSI Dental Division and NextGen Division also develop and market software that automates patient records in physician practices,
community health centers (CHC’s) and hospital settings. In this patient records area of our business, we are typically competing to replace paper-based patient record alternatives as opposed to replacing previously purchased systems. The
Hospital Solutions Division develops and markets an equivalent practice management software product, which performs administrative functions required for operating a small hospital as well as physician documentation and computerized physician order
entry (CPOE) charting.  In January 2011, QSIH was formed in Bangalore, India to function as our India-based captive to offshore
technology application development and business processing services. As of March 31, 2012, we had 135 full time employees in our Bangalore facility primarily engaged in software development and quality assurance activities. 
We continue to pursue product and service enhancement initiatives within each of our Divisions. The majority of such expenditures are currently
targeted to the NextGen Division product line and client base.  The following table breaks down our reported segment revenue and segment
revenue growth by Division for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:   




























 
  
Segment Revenue BreakdownFiscal Year 
Ended March 31,
 
 
Segment Revenue GrowthFiscal Year 
Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 QSI Dental Division
  
 
4.6
% 
 
 
5.7
% 
 
 
5.9
% 
 
 
(1.9
)% 
 
 
16.6
% 
 
 
8.1
% 

 NextGen Division
  
 
75.7
% 
 
 
75.3
% 
 
 
78.3
% 
 
 
22.1
% 
 
 
16.5
% 
 
 
12.1
% 

 Hospital Solutions Division(1)
  
 
8.0
% 
 
 
5.1
% 
 
 
1.0
% 
 
 
92.6
% 
 
 
519.1
% 
 
 
N/A
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
11.7
% 
 
 
13.9
% 
 
 
14.8
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
13.7
% 
 
 
67.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
21.6
% 
 
 
21.1
% 
 
 
18.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The reported revenue for the Hospital Solutions Division includes four acquisitions. The acquisition of CQI Solutions, Inc. (“CQI”) in July 2011, IntraNexus, Inc.
(“IntraNexus”) in April 2011, Opus in February 2010 and Sphere Health Systems, Inc. (“Sphere”) in August 2009. 
  5 


Table of Contents
QSI Dental Division.    The QSI Dental Division,
co-located with our corporate headquarters in Irvine, California, focuses on developing, marketing and supporting software suites sold to dental organizations located throughout the United States. In addition, the QSI Dental Division supports a
growing number of dental organizations using its Software as a Service (“SaaS”) model-based financial and clinical software, as well as a number of medical clients that use the QSI Dental Division’s UNIX®-based legacy medical practice management software product. This SaaS software, formerly called NextDDS™, has undergone a
name change and is now “QSIDental™ Web”. The name change was undertaken to give the product stronger identification in the marketplace as a web-based solution.  In July 2009, we licensed source code that allows us to deliver hosted, Web-based SaaS model practice management and clinical software solutions to the dental industry. This software solution, QSIDental Web, is
being marketed primarily to the multi-location dental group practice market in which the QSI Dental Division has historically been a dominant player. QSIDental Web moves the QSI Dental Division to the forefront of the emergence of Internet-based
applications and cloud computing and represents a significant growth opportunity for the Division to sell to both its existing client base and new clients.  The QSI Dental Division participates jointly with the NextGen Division in providing software and services to safety-net clinics like Federally Qualified Health Centers (“FQHC”) and other “safety
net” health centers, including Public Health Centers, Community Health Centers, Free Clinics, as well as Rural and Tribal Health Centers. FQHCs are community-based organizations and are funded by the federal government, which provide medical
and dental services to underprivileged and underserved communities. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was signed into law in March 2010, reserved $11 billion over a multi-year period for FQHCs, creating unprecedented
opportunities for FQHCs growth and the formation of new FQHCs. When combined and used in tandem, NextGen Ambulatory EHR, NextGen Electronic Dental Record and NextGen Practice Management provides a unique product in this marketplace — an
integrated patient record accessible by both physicians and dentists.  The QSI Dental Division’s legacy practice
management software suite uses a UNIX® operating system. It’s Clinical Product Suite (“CPS”) can be fully
integrated with the client server-based practice management software offered from each of our Divisions. When integrated and delivered with the NextGen Healthcare practice management solution, CPS is re-branded as NextGen EDR (Electronic Dental
Record). CPS/EDR incorporates a wide range of clinical tools including, but not limited to, periodontal charting and digital imaging of X-ray and inter-oral camera images as part of the electronic patient record. The QSI Dental Division also
develops, markets, and provides EDI services to dental practices, including electronic submission of claims to insurance providers as well as automated patient statements. On November 14, 2011, the Company acquired ViaTrack, a developer and
provider of information technologies that enhance EDI offerings, to incorporate into the QSI Dental Division. We believe that significant opportunities exist to add EDI services to our portfolio of service offerings in the dental and CHC market and
ViaTrack will provide a platform to pursue this opportunity.  NextGen Division.    The NextGen Division, with
headquarters in Horsham, Pennsylvania and a significant location in Atlanta, Georgia, provides integrated clinical, financial and connectivity solutions for ambulatory and dental provider organizations. The NextGen Division’s major product
categories include the NextGen Ambulatory product suite and NextGen Community Connectivity.  The NextGen Ambulatory product suite
streamlines patient care with standardized, real-time clinical and administrative workflows within a physician’s practice, and consists of:   


 
•
 
 NextGen Ambulatory Electronic Health Records (“EHR”) to ensure complete, accurate documentation to manage patient care electronically and to improve
clinical processes and patient outcomes with electronic charting at the point of care;   


 
•
 
 NextGen Practice Management (“PM”) to automate business processes, from front-end scheduling to back-end collections and financial and administrative
processes for increased performance and efficiencies; 
  6 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 NextGen Dashboard, which allows providers to view patient data in a visually rich graphical format. Using bar charts, pie charts, gauges and more, the system
displays information at the practice or single provider level;   


 
•
 
 NextGen Mobile, which improves patient care through anytime, anywhere access of patient data. In addition, NextGen Mobile has the capability to increase revenue
by easily capturing charges at the point of care resulting in potential reduction of medical liability through better documentation of out-of-office actions; and 
 


 
•
 
 NextGen NextPen (“NextPen”), which is a revolutionary digital pen that quickly captures manually-entered data into NextGen Ambulatory EHR. NextPen
captures structured data and graphic drawings as part of the patient record without scanning or transcription. This technology requires no learning curve for adoption. 
NextGen Community Connectivity consists of:   


 
•
 
 NextGen Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) to exchange patient data securely with community healthcare organizations; 
 


 
•
 
 NextGen Patient Portal (“NextMD.com”) to communicate with patients online and import information directly into NextGen Ambulatory EHR; and
  


 
•
 
 NextGen Health Quality Measures (“HQM”) to allow seamless quality measurement and reporting for practice and physician performance initiatives.
 The NextGen Division products utilize Microsoft Windows technology and can operate in a client-server environment as
well as via private intranet, the Internet, or in an ASP environment.  Services provided by the NextGen Division include: 
 


 
•
 
 EDI services that are intended to automate the entire patient statement process, reducing labor and printing costs associated with producing statements in-house.
In addition, the NextGen Division’s EDI works with the most innovative clearinghouses to transform electronic claims submissions into payments;   


 
•
 
 Hosting services that allow practices seeking the benefits of IT automation without the burden of maintaining in-house hardware and networking;
  


 
•
 
 NextGuard, a data protection services that provides an off-site, data archiving, restoration and disaster recovery preparedness solution for practices to protect
clinical and financial data; and  Consulting services provided by the NextGen Division include: 
 


 
•
 
 Strategic governance models and operational transformation;   


 
•
 
 Technical consulting, such as data conversions or interface development, which allow practices to build custom add-on features; 
 


 
•
 
 Physician consulting resources that allow practices to consult with the NextGen Division’s physician team; and 
 


 
•
 
 EHealth consulting services that assist in connecting communities of practices for data sharing. 
Hospital Solutions Division.    The Hospital Solutions Division, with its primary location in Austin, Texas, provides
integrated clinical, financial and connectivity solutions for rural and community hospitals. This Hospital Solutions Division also develops and markets an equivalent practice management software product for the small hospital market, which performs
the administrative functions required for operating a small hospital.  In the last few years, we have continued to acquire companies that
were established developers of software and services for the inpatient market to operate under the Hospital Solutions Division. On 
  7 


Table of Contents

May 1, 2012, we acquired The Poseidon Group, a provider of emergency department software. On July 26, 2011, we acquired CQI, a provider of hospital systems for surgery management. On
April 29, 2011, we acquired IntraNexus, a provider of Web-based integrated clinical and hospital information systems. On February 10, 2010, we acquired Opus, a provider of Web-based clinical solutions to hospital systems and integrated
health networks nationwide. And on August 12, 2009, we acquired Sphere, a provider of financial information systems to the small hospital inpatient market. These acquisitions are part of our strategy to continue to expand in the small hospital
market and to add new clients by taking advantage of cross selling opportunities between the ambulatory and inpatient markets.  The
Hospital Solutions Division’s products deliver secure, highly adaptable and easy to use applications to patient centered hospitals and health systems. These products consist of: 
 


 
•
 
 NextGen® Inpatient Clinicals, a
system which resides on an active web 2.0 platform, and is designed to initiate widespread work efficiency and communication, reduce errors, time-to-chart, and improve care. 
 


 
•
 
 NextGen® Inpatient Financials, a
financial and administrative system that helps hospitals improve the operations and financial and regulatory management of their facilities.   


 
•
 
 NextGen® Enterprise Scheduling, a
system designed to provide hospital-wide, conflict-free patient scheduling for easier, more efficient patient, resource, and staff management.   


 
•
 
 NextGen® Surgical Management, a
system designed to help hospitals optimize OR throughput, quality, efficiency, patient safety, revenue, and compliance.  RCM Services Division.    The RCM Services Division, with locations in St. Louis, Missouri and Hunt Valley, Maryland, provides technology solutions and consulting services to cover the
full spectrum of healthcare providers’ RCM needs, from patient access through claims denials, with a primary focus on billing and collection services. The RCM Services Division combines a Web-delivered SaaS model and the NextGenpm software platform to execute its service offerings. Execution of the plan to transition
our client base onto the NextGen platform is being implemented.  Industry Background 
The turbulence in the worldwide economy has impacted almost all industries. While healthcare is not immune to economic cycles,
we believe it is more resilient than most segments of the economy. The impact of the current economic conditions on our existing and prospective clients has been mixed. While we continue to see organizations that are doing fairly well operationally,
some organizations, especially those with a large dependency on Medicaid populations, have been impacted by the challenging financial conditions faced by many state governments. One factor that is anticipated to have a positive impact on the U.S.
healthcare industry is the Obama Administration’s broad healthcare reform efforts. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the “ARRA”), which was enacted on February 17, 2009, includes more than $20 billion in funding to help
healthcare organizations modernize operations through the acquisition of health care information technology. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, the Certification Commission for Health Information Technology (“CCHIT®”), a non-profit organization recognized by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology as an
approved Authorized Testing and Certification Body, announced that our EHR solution is certified as a Complete EHR and is 2011/2012 compliant. This certification was particularly timely, following the establishment of the Stage 1 Meaningful Use
definition criteria under the ARRA, which was announced in July 2010. The continuing clarification of the uncertainties surrounding the Meaningful Use definition has positively impacted the healthcare information technology industry, and we believe
we are well positioned to aid physicians and hospitals with their EHR decisions as they prepare to make incentive-based purchases. 
Moreover, to compete in the continually changing healthcare environment, providers are increasingly using technology to help maximize the efficiency
of their business practices, to assist in enhancing patient care, and to maintain the privacy of patient information. 
  8 


Table of Contents
As the reimbursement environment continues to evolve, more healthcare providers enter into contracts,
often with multiple entities, which define the terms under which care is administered and paid. The diversity of payor organizations, as well as additional government regulation and changes in reimbursement models, have greatly increased the
complexity of pricing, billing, reimbursement and records management for medical and dental practices. To operate effectively, healthcare provider organizations must efficiently manage patient care and other information and workflow processes, which
increasingly extend across multiple locations, disparate systems, and business entities.  In response, healthcare provider organizations
have placed increasing demands on their information systems. Initially, these information systems automated financial and administrative functions. As it became necessary to manage patient flow processes, the need arose to integrate
“back-office” data with such clinical information as patient test results and office visits. We believe information systems must facilitate management of patient information incorporating administrative, financial and clinical information
from multiple entities. In addition, large healthcare organizations increasingly require information systems that can deliver high performance in environments with multiple concurrent computer users. 
Many existing healthcare information systems were designed for limited administrative tasks such as billing and scheduling and
can neither accommodate multiple computing environments nor operate effectively across multiple locations and entities. We believe that practices that leverage technology to more efficiently handle patient clinical data as well as administrative,
financial and other practice management data will be best able to enhance patient flow, pursue cost efficiencies and improve quality of care. As healthcare organizations transition to new computer platforms and newer technologies, we believe such
organizations will be migrating toward the implementation of enterprise-wide, patient-centric computing systems embedded with automated clinical patient records. On April 15, 2012, we acquired Matrix Management Solutions (“Matrix”).
Since 1998, North Canton, Ohio-based Matrix Management Solutions, a value-added reseller for NextGen Healthcare, has provided RCM services, healthcare IT solutions and training, implementation and support centered on NextGen® technology, to its clients nationwide. The acquisition will enable our RCM Services Division to expand its footprint among
private and hospital-based physicians and groups by leveraging Matrix’s RCM expertise.  Our Strategy 
Our strategy is to focus on providing software and services to the medical and dental communities, both in the ambulatory and inpatient settings.
The key elements of this strategy are to continue development and enhancement of select software solutions in target markets, to continue to bring further integration between our ambulatory and inpatient products, to continue investments in our
infrastructure including but not limited to product development, sales, marketing, implementation and support, to continue efforts to make infrastructure investments within an overall context of maintaining reasonable expense discipline, to add new
clients through maintaining and expanding sales, marketing and product development activities and to expand our relationship with existing clients through delivery of add-on and complementary products and services while continuing our gold-standard
commitment of service in support of our client satisfaction programs. We believe that our growing customer base that is using our software on a daily basis is a strategic asset, and we intend to expand our product and service offerings towards this
customer base in order to leverage this strategic asset. We also believe that our products are well positioned to support the creation of accountable care organizations and pay for quality initiatives. 
Products and Services  In response to the
growing need for more comprehensive, cost-effective healthcare information solutions for medical practices, dental practices, hospitals, health centers and other healthcare providers, our systems and services provide our clients with the ability to
redesign patient care and other workflow processes while improving productivity through facilitation of managed access to patient information. 
  9 


Table of Contents

Utilizing our proprietary software in combination with third party hardware and software solutions, our products enable the integration of a variety of administrative clinical and financial
operations. Leveraging more than 30 years of experience in the healthcare information services industry, we believe we continue to add value by providing our clients with sophisticated, full-featured software systems along with comprehensive
systems implementation, training, consultation, maintenance and support services.  NextGen Ambulatory Practice Management
Systems.    Our products consist primarily of proprietary healthcare software applications together with third party hardware and other non-industry specific software. The systems range in capacity from one to thousands of
users, allowing us to address the needs of both small and large organizations. The systems are modular in design and may be expanded to accommodate changing client requirements. We offer both standard licenses and SaaS arrangements in our software
offerings; although to date, SaaS arrangements do not represent a significant portion of our arrangements. 
NextGenpm
 is the NextGen Division’s practice management offering. NextGenpm has been developed with a functional graphical user interface (“GUI”) certified for use with Windows 2000 and Windows XP operating systems. The product leverages a relational database (Microsoft SQL
Server) with support on both 32 and 64 bit enterprise servers. NextGenpm is a
scalable, multi-module solution that includes a master patient index, enterprise-wide appointment scheduling with referral tracking, clinical support and centralized or decentralized patient financial management based on either a managed care or
fee-for-service model. The NextGenpm product is a highly configurable,
cost-effective proven solution that enables the effective management of both single and multi-practice settings. 
NextGen Ambulatory Clinical Systems.    The NextGen Division provides clinical software applications
that are complementary to, and are integrated with, our medical practice management offerings and interface with many of the other leading practice management software systems on the market. The applications incorporated into our practice management
solutions and others such as scheduling, eligibility, billing and claims processing are augmented by clinical information captured by NextGenehr, including services rendered, clinical documentation and diagnoses used for billing purposes. We believe that we currently
provide a comprehensive information management solution for the medical marketplace.  NextGenehr was developed with client-server architecture, GUI and utilizes Microsoft Windows 2000,
Windows NT or Windows XP on each workstation and either Windows 2000, Windows NT, Windows XP or UNIX on the database server.
NextGenehr maintains data using industry standard relational database engines
such as Microsoft SQL Server or Oracle. The system is scalable from one to thousands of workstations. NextGenehr stores and maintains clinical data including:   


 
•
 
 Data captured using user-customizable input “templates”; 
 


 
•
 
 Scanned or electronically acquired images, including X-rays and photographs; 
 


 
•
 
 Data electronically acquired through interfaces with clinical instruments or external systems; 
 


 
•
 
 Other records, documents or notes, including electronically captured handwriting and annotations; and 
 


 
•
 
 Digital voice recordings.  NextGenehr also offers a workflow module,
prescription management, automatic document and letter generation, patient education, referral tracking, interfaces to billing and lab systems, physician alerts and reminders and powerful reporting and data analysis tools. 
QSI Dental Division Practice Management and Clinical Systems.    In fiscal year 2010, QSI began selling hosted Software
as a Service (SaaS) practice management and clinical software solutions to the dental industry. This software solution is marketed primarily to the multi-location dental group practice market for which the Division has remains a dominate player.
This software solution, whose name was changed from NextDDS to QSIDental Web to better identify it as a web-based solution, moves the QSI 
  10 


Table of Contents

Dental Division to the forefront of the emergence of Internet-based applications and cloud computing and represents a significant growth opportunity for us to sell to both our existing client
base and new clients.  In addition to the SaaS clinical offering, QSI’s dental charting software system, known as the Clinical
Product Suite (CPS), provides a comprehensive solution designed specifically for the dental group practice environment. CPS integrates QSI’s dental practice management product with a computer-based clinical information system that incorporates
a wide range of clinical tools, including electronic charting of dental procedures, treatment planning, existing conditions, periodontal charting via light-pen, voice-activation or keyboard entry for full periodontal examinations and PSR scoring. In
addition, digital imaging of X-ray and intra-oral camera images, computer-based patient education modules are viewable chair-side to enhance case presentation, full access to patient information, treatment plans and insurance plans via a fully
integrated interface with our dental practice management product. All this is supported by document and image scanning for digital storage and linkage to the electronic patient record. 
The result is a comprehensive clinical information management system that helps practices save time, reduce costs, improve case presentation and
enhance the delivery of dental services and quality of care. Clinical information is managed and maintained electronically, thus forming an electronic patient record that allows for the implementation of the “chartless” office. 
CPS incorporates Windows-based client-server technology consisting of one or more file servers and is scalable from one to thousands of
workstations. The hardware components, including the requisite operating system licenses, are purchased from third party manufacturers or distributors either directly by the client or by us for resale to the customer. 
Hospital Solutions.    The Hospital Solutions Division provides clinical, financial, enterprise scheduling,
surgery management and EHR-related applications and services to provide value based solutions for rural, community and specialty hospitals. These solutions are designed to help improve patient safety, automate order entry and facilitate real-time
communication of patient information throughout the hospital and across the patient care continuum. The Inpatient solutions are highly scalable, secure and easy to use with a Web 2.0-based clinical component that leverages full “cloud
computing” capabilities. Key Inpatient products consist of:  NextGen® Inpatient Clinicals—a suite of CCHIT ONC 2011-certified solutions based on a scalable, secure and web-based enterprise platform that leverages mobile and
‘cloud computing’ technology. Clinicians can enter and retrieve relevant inpatient clinical information (patient vitals, lab results, allergies, medications, and imaging results) from bedside or remote locations. NextGen Inpatient
Clinicals’ CPOE, Clinical Documentation, and Clinical Decision support capabilities and help enable hospitals to achieve Stage 1 through Stage 4 adoption for ARRA meaningful use reimbursement and the
HIMSS® EMR Adoption Model.  NextGen® Inpatient Financials—a financial and administrative system that
helps hospitals streamline operations and improve financial and regulatory management of their facilities. The system is designed to automate and consolidate financials processes at single or multiple facilities, including critical access, rural
community and specialty hospitals and physician offices. NextGen® Inpatient Financials uses a common patient database and
community-based master patient index. It is designed to help optimize revenue management and claims results. 
NextGen®
 Enterprise Scheduling—a system designed to provide hospital-wide, conflict-free patient scheduling for easier, more efficient patient, resource, and staff management. It can be used as a single module or integrated with any
combination of NextGen® Inpatient Clinical Applications. It is designed so that, whether used as a single module or
integrated with clinical applications, hospital operations can benefit with better use of resources for increased capacity and patient throughput.  NextGen® Surgical Management—a system designed to help hospitals optimize
OR throughput, quality, efficiency, patient safety, revenue, and compliance. Detailed reporting provides surgery directors 
  11 


Table of Contents

and hospital administrators with information to fine tune surgical processes, quickly identify cases where costs have exceeded a normal range, and improve use of precious OR resources. Hidden
surgical procedure cost drivers can be identified and eliminated. The system also helps ensure compliance with Surgical Care Improvement Project (SCIP) and National Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN) reporting requirements. 
Revenue Cycle Management Services.    RCM Services Division partners with private and hospital-based
physicians and groups to maximize their use of the NextGen® product suite with best practice, customizable RCM services in
order to help them optimize revenue, better leverage automation, and help them focus on practicing medicine. RCM services capabilities include:  Billing and Collections—A robust set of internal controls, checks and balances, audits and reports ensures accuracy and addresses the entire revenue cycle: from patient registration and charge capture,
to claim submission, payment posting and accounts receivable management.  Electronic Claims Submission—These services
generate HIPAA-compliant insurance transactions to submit client insurance claims electronically to insurance payers nationwide. Our solutions support the CMS-1500, UB-04 and ADA Dental Claim Forms and also accommodate proprietary claim formats.
 Electronic Remittance & Payment Posting—These services help ensure payments are posted
accurately and promptly. Using the NextGen® Document Management, we link an image of each explanation of benefit
(“EOB”) to the corresponding encounter at the time of payment posting to minimize the need for storage of paper EOBs. The services also use electronic remittance and digital lockboxes to post payments and capture specific denial
information for management and tracking.  Accounts Receivable Follow-Up—An accounts receivable management methodology
designed in cooperation with our clients helps establish joint follow-up parameters, adjustment rules, standards for account elevation, as well as customized follow-up activities. 
Expertise and Support—Our team of experts consists of analysts, billing and coding specialists, auditors, customer service
professionals, and account managers – all working for our clients to answer patients’ billing questions, monitor RCM performance and trends, and identify opportunities for improvement and increased collections. 
Electronic Data Interchange.    We make available EDI capabilities and connectivity services to our clients. The
EDI/connectivity capabilities encompass direct interfaces between our products and external third party systems, as well as transaction-based services.  EDI products are intended to automate a number of manual, often paper-based or telephony intensive communications between patients and/or providers and/or payors. Two of the more common EDI services are forwarding
insurance claims electronically from providers to payers and assisting practices with issuing statements to patients. Most client practices utilize at least some of these services from us or one of our competitors. Other EDI/connectivity services
are used more sporadically by client practices. We typically compete to displace incumbent vendors for claims and statements accounts and attempt to increase usage of other elements in our EDI/connectivity product line. In general, EDI services are
only sold to those accounts utilizing software from either the QSI Dental or NextGen Divisions. On November 14, 2011, the Company acquired ViaTrack, a developer and provider of information technologies that enhance EDI offerings. This
acquisition has provided the Company with in house EDI capabilities at less cost to the Company compared to third party providers. We believe that significant opportunities exist to add EDI services to our portfolio of service offerings in the
inpatient market and ViaTrack will provide a platform to pursue this opportunity.  Services include: 
 


 
•
 
 Electronic claims submission through our relationships with a number of payors and national claims clearinghouses; 
 


 
•
 
 Electronic patient statement processing, appointment reminder cards and calls, recall cards, patient letters and other correspondence;

  12 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Electronic insurance eligibility verification; and   


 
•
 
 Electronic posting of remittances from insurance carriers into the accounts receivable application. 
Community Connectivity.    The NextGen Division also markets NextGen HIE to facilitate
cross-enterprise data sharing, enabling individual physican practices in a given community to selectively share critical data, such as demographics, referrals, medications lists, allergies, diagnoses, lab results, histories and more. This is
accomplished through a secure, community-wide data repository that links health care providers, whether they have the
NextGenehs system, another compatible electronic health records system,
together with hospitals, payors, labs and other entities. The product is designed to facilitate data exchange within an Integrated Delivery Network (IDN) or Regional Health Information Organization (“RHIO”). The result is that for every
health care encounter in the community, a patient-centric and complete record is accessible for the provider. The availability, accuracy and completeness of information plus the elimination of duplicate data entry can lead to significantly improved
patient safety, enhanced decision making capabilities, time efficiencies and cost savings. Our NextGen Division maintains an internet-based patient health portal, NextGen Patient Portal. NextMD.com is the URL for our vertical portal for the
healthcare industry, linking patients with their physicians, while providing a centralized source of health-oriented information for both consumers and medical professionals. Patients whose physicians are linked to the portal are able to request
appointments, send appointment changes or cancellations, receive test results on-line, request prescription refills, view and/or pay their statements, and communicate with their physicians, all in a secure, on-line environment. Our NextGen suite of
information systems are or can be linked to NextMD.com, integrating a number of these features with physicians’ existing systems.  Proprietary
Rights  We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to
establish and protect proprietary rights in our products and services. To protect our proprietary rights, we enter into confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees with whom such controls are relevant. Certain
qualified employees enter into additional agreements that permit them access under certain circumstances, to software matters that are both confidential and more strictly controlled. In addition, we include intellectual property protective
provisions in many of our client contracts.  We rely on software that we license from third parties for certain components of our
products and services to enhance our products and services, and meet evolving customer needs. The failure to license any necessary technology, or to maintain our existing licenses, could result in reduced demand for our products. 
Because the software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, we believe such factors as the technological and creative skills of
our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are more important to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position than the various legal protections of our
technology.  Although we believe our products and services, and other proprietary rights, do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of
third parties, third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us in the future. Any such claims may result in costly, time-consuming litigation and may require us to enter into royalty or cross-license arrangements.
 Sales and Marketing  We sell and
market our products nationwide primarily through a direct sales force and a small number of reseller relationships. Software license sales to resellers represented less than 10% of total revenue for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Our direct sales force typically makes presentations to potential clients by demonstrating the system
and our capabilities on the prospective client’s premises. Sales efforts aimed at smaller practices can be performed on the prospective clients’ premises, or remotely via telephone or Internet-based presentations. Our sales and marketing
employees identify prospective clients through a variety of means, including referrals from existing clients, industry consultants, contacts at professional society meetings, trade shows and seminars, trade journal advertising, direct mail
advertising and telemarketing.  Our sales cycle can vary significantly and typically ranges from six to twenty-four months from initial
contact to contract execution. Software licenses are normally delivered to a client almost immediately upon receipt of an order. Implementation and training services are normally rendered based on a mutually agreed upon timetable. As part of the
fees paid by our clients, we normally receive up-front licensing fees. Clients have the option to purchase maintenance services which, if purchased, are invoiced on a monthly, quarterly or annual basis. 
Several clients have purchased our practice management software and, in turn, are providing either time-share or billing services to single and
group practice practitioners. Under the time-share or billing service agreements, the client provides the use of our software for a fee to one or more practitioners. Although we typically do not receive a fee directly from the distributor’s
clients, implementation of such arrangements has, from time to time, resulted in the purchase of additional software capacity by the distributor, as well as new software purchases made by the distributor’s customers should such customers decide
to perform the practice management functions in-house.  We continue to concentrate our direct sales and marketing efforts on medical and
dental practices, networks of such practices including MSOs and PHOs, professional schools, community health centers and other ambulatory care settings.  MSOs, PHOs and similar networks to which we have sold systems provide use of our software to those group and single physician practices associated with the organization or hospital on either a service basis or by
directing us to contract with those practices for the sale of stand-alone systems.  We have also entered into marketing assistance
agreements with certain of our clients pursuant to which the clients allow us to demonstrate to potential clients the use of systems on the existing clients’ premises.  From time to time we assist prospective clients in identifying third party sources for financing the purchase of our systems. The financing is typically obtained by the client directly from institutional lenders
and typically takes the form of a loan from the institution secured by the system to be purchased or a leasing arrangement. We do not guarantee the financing nor retain any continuing interest in the transaction. 
We have numerous clients and do not believe that the loss of any single client would adversely affect us. No client accounted for 10% or more of our
net revenue during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010.  Client Service and Support 
We believe our success is attributable in part to our client service and support departments. We offer support to our clients seven days a week, 24
hours a day.  Our client support staff is comprised of specialists who are knowledgeable in the areas of software and hardware as well as
in the day-to-day operations of a practice. System support activities range from correcting minor procedural problems in the client’s system to performing complex database reconstructions or software updates. 
We utilize automated online support systems which assist clients in resolving minor problems and facilitate automated electronic retrieval of
problems and symptoms following a client’s call to the automated support system. Additionally, our online support systems maintain call records, available at both the client’s facility and our offices. 
  14 


Table of Contents
We offer our clients support services for most system components, including hardware and software, for
a fixed monthly, quarterly or annual fee. Clients also receive access to future unspecified versions of the software, on a when-and-if available basis, as part of support services. We also subcontract, in certain instances, with third party vendors
to perform specific hardware maintenance tasks.  Implementation and Training 
We offer full service implementation and training services. When a client signs a contract for the purchase of a system that includes implementation
and training services, a client manager/implementation specialist trained in medical and/or dental group practice procedures is assigned to assist the client in the installation of the system and the training of appropriate practice staff.
Implementation services include loading the software, training client personnel, data conversion, running test data and assisting in the development and documentation of procedures. Implementation and training services are provided by our employees
as well as certified third parties and certain resellers.  Training may include a combination of computer assisted instruction
(“CAI”) for certain of our products, remote training techniques and training classes conducted at the client’s or our office(s). CAI consists of workbooks, computer interaction and self-paced instruction. CAI is also offered to
clients, for an additional charge, after the initial training program is completed for the purpose of training new and additional employees. Remote training allows a trainer at our offices to train one or more people at a client site via telephone
and computer connection, thus allowing an interactive and client-specific mode of training without the expense and time required for travel. In addition, our on-line “help” and other documentation features facilitate client training as
well as ongoing support.  The Company has relationships with third party implementation providers to supplement the Company’s in
house implementation resources.  In addition, NextGen “E-learning” is an on-line learning subscription service which allows end
users to train on the software on the internet. E-learning allows end users to self-manage their own learning with their personal learning path and pace. The service allows users to track the status of courses taken. 
At present, our training facilities are located in (i) Horsham, Pennsylvania, (ii) Atlanta, Georgia, (iii) Dallas, Texas and
(iv) Irvine, California.  Competition  The markets for healthcare information systems and services are intensely competitive. The industry is highly fragmented and includes numerous competitors, none of which we believe dominates these markets. Our
principal existing competitors in the healthcare information systems and services market include: eClinicalWorks, GE Healthcare (“GE”), Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc. (“Allscripts”), EPIC, McKesson and other competitors.
In addition, our entry into the small hospital market has introduced new competitors, including Computer Programs and Systems, Inc., Healthland and Healthcare Management Systems, Inc. 
The electronic patient records and connectivity markets, in particular, are subject to rapid changes in technology, and we expect that competition
in these market segments will increase as new competitors enter the market. We believe our principal competitive advantages are the features and capabilities of our products and services, our high level of client support and our extensive experience
in the industry.  The RCM market is also intensely competitive as other healthcare information systems companies, such as GE, McKesson
and Allscripts, are also in the market of selling both practice management and electronic health records software and medical billing and collection services.  Product Enhancement and Development  The healthcare information management and computer
software and hardware industries are characterized by rapid technological change requiring us to engage in continuing investments to update, 
  15 


Table of Contents

enhance and improve our systems. During fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, we expended approximately $44.5 million, $32.5 million and $24.5 million, respectively, on research and development
activities, including capitalized software amounts of $13.1 million, $10.7 million and $7.9 million, respectively. In addition, a portion of our product enhancements have resulted from software development work performed under contracts with
our clients.  Employees  As of
March 31, 2012, we employed approximately 1,938 persons, of which 1,908 were full-time employees. We believe that our future success depends in part upon recruiting and retaining qualified sales, marketing and technical personnel as well as
other employees.  Available Information  Our website address is www.qsii.com. We make our periodic and current reports, together with amendments to these reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. You may access such filings under the “Investor
Relations” button on our website. Members of the public may also read and copy any materials we file with, or furnish to, the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. To obtain information
on the operation of the Public Reference Room, please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy statements and other information that we file electronically with
the SEC. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto is not intended to be incorporated into this Report or any other report or information we file with the SEC. 
 


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere and the other
information contained in this Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The risks
and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business operations. If any of these known or unknown risks
actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, in which case the trading price of our common stock may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. 
Risks Related to Our Business  The
ongoing uncertainty in global economic conditions may negatively impact our business, operating results or financial condition. 
The continuing unfavorable global economic conditions and uncertainty have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of
liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number
of ways. For example, current or potential clients may be unable to fund software purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased
products and services. Our clients may cease business operations or conduct business on a greatly reduced basis. Finally, our investment portfolio is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that
may be exacerbated by these global financial conditions. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our
investments could be adversely affected as well. 
  16 


Table of Contents
We face significant, evolving competition which, if we fail to properly address, could adversely
affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our stock.  The markets for healthcare information
systems are intensely competitive, and we face significant competition from a number of different sources. Several of our competitors have substantially greater name recognition and financial, technical, product development and marketing resources
than we do. There has been significant merger and acquisition activity among a number of our competitors in recent years. Transaction induced pressures, or other related factors may result in price erosion or other negative market dynamics that
could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and price of our stock.  We compete in all of our markets
with other major healthcare related companies, information management companies, systems integrators and other software developers. Competitive pressures and other factors, such as new product introductions by us or our competitors, may result in
price or market share erosion that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Also, there can be no assurance that our applications will achieve broad market acceptance or will successfully compete with other
available software products.  There has also been increasing consolidation amongst healthcare industry participants in recent years,
creating integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, the number of market participants decreases and competition to provide products and services like ours will
become more intense. The importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater and our inability to make initial sales of our systems to, or maintain relationships with, newly formed groups and/or healthcare
providers that are replacing or substantially modifying their healthcare information systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These consolidated industry participants may also try to use their
increased market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses.
 Many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. In order to compete successfully, we must keep pace with our
competitors in anticipating and responding to the rapid changes involving the industry in which we operate, or our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
The software market generally is characterized by rapid technological change, changing client needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving
industry standards. The introduction of products incorporating new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in
developing and marketing new products that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards. New product development depends upon significant research and development expenditures which depend ultimately upon sales growth. Any
material shortfall in revenue or research funding could impair our ability to respond to technological advances or opportunities in the marketplace and to remain competitive. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and
introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or client requirements, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
In response to increasing market demand, we are currently developing new generations of targeted software products. There can be no assurance that
we will successfully develop these new software products or that these products will operate successfully, or that any such development, even if successful, will be completed concurrently with or prior to introduction of competing products. Any such
failure or delay could adversely affect our competitive position or could make our current products obsolete. 
  17 


Table of Contents
We face risk and/or the possibility of claims from activities related to strategic partners,
which could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business.  We rely on third parties to provide services for our business. For example, we use national clearinghouses in the processing of some insurance claims and we outsource some of our hardware maintenance services and
the printing and delivery of patient statements for our clients. These third parties could raise their prices and/or be acquired by our competitors, which could potentially create short and long-term disruptions to our business, negatively impacting
our revenue, profit and/or stock price. We also have relationships with certain third parties where these third parties serve as sales channels through which we generate a portion of our revenue. Due to these third-party relationships, we could be
subject to claims as a result of the activities, products, or services of these third-party service providers even though we were not directly involved in the circumstances leading to those claims. Even if these claims do not result in liability to
us, defending and investigating these claims could be expensive and time-consuming, divert personnel and other resources from our business and result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. 
We may engage in future acquisitions, which may be expensive and time consuming and from which we may not realize anticipated benefits.
 We may acquire additional businesses, technologies and products if we determine that these additional businesses, technologies
and products are likely to serve our strategic goals. We acquired Opus and Sphere during fiscal year 2010 and IntraNexus and CQI during fiscal year 2012, all of which are developers of software and services for the inpatient market. During fiscal
year 2012, we also acquired ViaTrack, which develops information technologies that enhance EDI offerings. The specific risks we may encounter in these types of transactions include but are not limited to the following: 
 


 
•
 
 potentially dilutive issuances of our securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets with
indefinite useful lives, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition;   


 
•
 
 using cash as acquisition currency may adversely affect interest or investment income, which may in turn adversely affect our earnings and /or earnings per
share;   


 
•
 
 difficulty in fully or effectively integrating any acquired technologies or software products into our current products and technologies, which would prevent us
from realizing the intended benefits of the acquisition;   


 
•
 
 difficulty in predicting and responding to issues related to product transition such as development, distribution and client support;
  


 
•
 
 the possible adverse effect of such acquisitions on existing relationships with third party partners and suppliers of technologies and services;
  


 
•
 
 the possibility that staff or clients of the acquired company might not accept new ownership and may transition to different technologies or attempt to
renegotiate contract terms or relationships, including maintenance or support agreements;   


 
•
 
 the possibility that the due diligence process in any such acquisition may not completely identify material issues associated with product quality, product
architecture, product development, intellectual property issues, key personnel issues or legal and financial contingencies, including any deficiencies in internal controls and procedures and the costs associated with remedying such deficiencies;
  


 
•
 
 difficulty in entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 
  18 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 difficulty in integrating acquired operations due to geographical distance and language and cultural differences; and 
 


 
•
 
 the possibility that acquired assets become impaired, requiring us to take a charge to earnings which could be significant. 
A failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses or technology could, for any of these reasons, have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.  Our failure to manage growth could harm our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  We have in the past experienced periods of growth which have placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain
on our non-cash resources. We also anticipate expanding our overall software development, marketing, sales, client management and training capacity. In the event we are unable to identify, hire, train and retain qualified individuals in such
capacities within a reasonable timeframe, such failure could have an adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, our ability to manage future increases, if any, in the scope of our operations or personnel will depend on significant
expansion of our research and development, marketing and sales, management and administrative and financial capabilities. The failure of our management to effectively manage expansion in our business could have an adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition.  Our operations are dependent upon our key personnel. If such personnel were to
leave unexpectedly, we may not be able to execute our business plan.  Our future performance depends in significant part upon the
continued service of our key technical and senior management personnel, many of whom have been with us for a significant period of time. These personnel have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our business. Because we have a
relatively small number of employees when compared to other leading companies in our industry, our dependence on maintaining our relationships with key employees is particularly significant. We are also dependent on our ability to attract high
quality personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and applications development.  The industry in which we operate is characterized by
a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. There can be no assurance that our current employees will continue to work for us. Loss of services of key employees could have an adverse effect on our business,
results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we may need to grant additional equity incentives to key employees and provide other forms of incentive compensation to attract and retain such key personnel. Equity incentives may be
dilutive to our per share financial performance. Failure to provide such types of incentive compensation could jeopardize our recruitment and retention capabilities.  Continuing worldwide political and economic uncertainties may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. 
The last several years have been periodically marked by concerns including but not limited to inflation, decreased consumer confidence, the
lingering effects of international conflicts, energy costs and terrorist and military activities. These conditions can make it extremely difficult for our clients, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and
they could cause constrained spending on our products and services and/or delay and lengthen sales cycles. 
  19 


Table of Contents
We are implementing a new company-wide enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system.
The implementation process is complex and involves a number of risks that may adversely affect our business and results of operations.  We are currently replacing our multiple legacy business systems at different sites with a new company-wide, integrated ERP system to handle various business, operating and financial processes. The new system will
enhance a variety of important functions, such as order entry, invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, financial consolidation, and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. 
ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial expenditures on system hardware and software and implementation
activities that often continue for several years. Such an integrated, wide-scale implementation is extremely complex and requires transformation of business and financial processes in order to reap the benefits of the ERP system. Significant efforts
are required for requirements identification, functional design, process documentation, data conversion, user training and post implementation support. Problems in any of these areas could result in operational issues including delayed billing and
accounting errors and other operational issues. System delays or malfunctioning could also disrupt our ability to timely and accurately process and report results of our operations, financial position and cash flows, which could impact our ability
to timely complete important business processes such as the evaluation of its internal controls and attestation activities pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
Until the new ERP system is fully implemented, we expect to incur additional selling, general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures
to implement and test the system, and there can be no assurance that other issues relating to the ERP system will not occur or be identified. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if it experiences operating problems
and/or cost overruns during the ERP implementation process or if the ERP system and the associated process changes do not function as expected or give rise to the expected benefits. 
We own a captive facility, located in India that subjects us to regulatory, economic, social and political uncertainties in India.
 We are subject to several risks associated with having a portion of our assets and operations located in India. Many US
companies have benefited from many policies of the Government of India and the Indian state governments in the states in which we operate, which are designed to promote foreign investment generally and the business process services industry in
particular, including significant tax incentives, relaxation of regulatory restrictions, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. There is no assurance that such policies will continue.
Various factors, such as changes in the current Government of India, could trigger significant changes in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business
in particular. In addition, our financial performance and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls,
interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In particular, India has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but
faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified
employees, develop and operate our captive facility could be adversely affected if India does not successfully meet these challenges. 
  20 


Table of Contents
Risks Related to Our Products and Service 
If our principal products and our new product developments fail to meet the needs of our clients, we may fail to realize future growth.
 We currently derive substantially all of our net revenue from sales of our healthcare information systems and related services.
We believe that a primary factor in the market acceptance of our systems has been our ability to meet the needs of users of healthcare information systems. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on our ability to continue to meet
the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients through the timely development and successful introduction and implementation of new and enhanced versions of our systems and other complementary products. We have historically expended a
significant percentage of our net revenue on product development and believe that significant continuing product development efforts will be required to sustain our growth. Continued investment in our sales staff and our client implementation and
support staffs will also be required to support future growth.  There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our product
development efforts, that the market will continue to accept our existing products, or that new products or product enhancements will be developed and implemented in a timely manner, meet the requirements of healthcare providers, or achieve market
acceptance. If new products or product enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. At certain times in the past, we have also experienced delays in purchases
of our products by clients anticipating our launch, or the launch of our competitors, of new products. There can be no assurance that material order deferrals in anticipation of new product introductions from ourselves or other entities will not
occur.  If the emerging technologies and platforms of Microsoft and others upon which we build our products do not gain or
continue to maintain broad market acceptance, or if we fail to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products and services compatible with such emerging technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively and our ability to generate
revenue will suffer.  Our software products are built and depend upon several underlying and evolving relational database
management system platforms such as those developed by Microsoft. To date, the standards and technologies upon which we have chosen to develop our products have proven to have gained industry acceptance. However, the market for our software products
is subject to ongoing rapid technological developments, quickly evolving industry standards and rapid changes in client requirements, and there may be existing or future technologies and platforms that achieve industry standard status, which are not
compatible with our products.  We face the possibility of subscription pricing, which may force us to adjust our sales, marketing
and pricing strategies.  In April 2009, we announced a new subscription based software as a service delivery model which
includes monthly subscription pricing. This model is designed for smaller practices to quickly access the NextGenehr or NextGenpm products at a modest monthly
per provider price. We currently derive substantially all of our systems revenue from traditional software license, implementation and training fees, as well as the resale of computer hardware. Today, the majority of our clients pay an initial
license fee for the use of our products, in addition to a periodic maintenance fee. While the intent of the new subscription based delivery model is to further penetrate the smaller practice market, there can be no assurance that this delivery model
will not become increasingly popular with both small and large clients. If the marketplace increasingly demands subscription pricing, we may be forced to further adjust our sales, marketing and pricing strategies accordingly, by offering a higher
percentage of our products and services through these means. Shifting to a significantly greater degree of subscription pricing could adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and quarterly and annual revenue and results of

  21 


Table of Contents

operations, as our revenue would initially decrease substantially. There can be no assurance that the marketplace will not increasingly embrace subscription pricing. 
We face the possibility of claims based upon our website content, which may cause us expense and management distraction. 
We could be subject to third party claims based on the nature and content of information supplied on our website by us or third parties, including
content providers or users. We could also be subject to liability for content that may be accessible through our website or third party websites linked from our website or through content and information that may be posted by users in chat rooms,
bulletin boards or on websites created by professionals using our applications. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, investigating and defending against these claims could be expensive and time consuming and could divert
management’s attention away from our operations.  If our security measures are breached or fail and unauthorized
access is obtained to a client’s data, our services may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or stop using our services, and we may incur significant liabilities. 
Our services involve the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information and protected health information of patients. Because of
the sensitivity of this information, security features of our software are very important. If our security measures are breached or fail as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance, insufficiency, defective design, or otherwise,
someone may be able to obtain unauthorized access to client or patient data. As a result, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could face damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or
regulations and significant costs for remediation and remediation efforts to prevent future occurrences. We rely upon our clients as users of our system for key activities to promote security of the system and the data within it, such as
administration of client-side access credentialing and control of client-side display of data. On occasion, our clients have failed to perform these activities. Failure of clients to perform these activities may result in claims against us that this
reliance was misplaced, which could expose us to significant expense and harm to our reputation. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a
target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we
could lose sales and clients. In addition, our clients may authorize or enable third parties to access their client data or the data of their patients on our systems. Because we do not control such access, we cannot ensure the complete propriety of
that access or integrity or security of such data in our systems.  Failure by our clients to obtain proper permissions and waivers
may result in claims against us or may limit or prevent our use of data, which could harm our business.  We require our clients
to provide necessary notices and to obtain necessary permissions and waivers for use and disclosure of the information that we receive, and we require contractual assurances from them that they have done so and will do so. If they do not obtain
necessary permissions and waivers, then our use and disclosure of information that we receive from them or on their behalf may be limited or prohibited by state or federal privacy laws or other applicable laws. This could impair our functions,
processes and databases that reflect, contain, or are based upon such data and may prevent use of such data. In addition, this could interfere with or prevent creation or use of rules and analyses or limit other data-driven activities that are
beneficial to our business. Moreover, we may be subject to claims or liability for use or disclosure of information by reason of lack of valid notice, permission or waiver. These claims or liabilities could subject us to unexpected costs and
adversely affect our operating results. 
  22 


Table of Contents
We face the possibility of damages resulting from internal and external security breaches and
viruses.  In the course of our business operations, we compile and transmit confidential information, including patient health
information, in our processing centers and other facilities. A breach of security in any of these facilities could damage our reputation and result in damages being assessed against us. In addition, the other systems with which we may interface,
such as the Internet and related systems may be vulnerable to security breaches, viruses, programming errors, or similar disruptive problems. The effect of these security breaches and related issues could disrupt our ability to perform certain key
business functions and could potentially reduce demand for our services. Accordingly, we have expended significant resources toward establishing and enhancing the security of our related infrastructures, although no assurance can be given that they
will be entirely free from potential breach. Maintaining and enhancing our infrastructure security may require us to expend significant capital in the future.  The success of our strategy to offer our EDI services and Internet solutions depends on the confidence of our clients in our ability to securely transmit confidential information. Our EDI services and Internet
solutions rely on encryption, authentication and other security technology licensed from third parties to achieve secure transmission of confidential information. We may not be able to stop unauthorized attempts to gain access to or disrupt the
transmission of communications by our clients. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential user information or interrupt our, or our clients’, operations. In addition, our EDI and Internet solutions
may be vulnerable to viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions.  Any failure to provide secure infrastructure
and/or electronic communication services could result in a lack of trust by our clients causing them to seek out other vendors and/or damage our reputation in the market, making it difficult to obtain new clients. 
We are subject to the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, which is not within our control, and which may diminish
Internet usage and availability as well as access to our website.  We deliver Internet-based services and, accordingly, we are
dependent on the maintenance of the Internet by third parties. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it and our performance may decrease if the Internet continues to experience its historic trend of expanding
usage. As a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, the Internet has experienced a variety of performance problems which may continue into the foreseeable future. Such Internet related problems may diminish Internet usage and
availability of the Internet to us for transmittal of our Internet-based services. In addition, difficulties, outages and delays by Internet service providers, online service providers and other website operators may obstruct or diminish access to
our website by our clients, resulting in a loss of potential or existing users of our services.  Our business depends on continued
and unimpeded access to the Internet by us and our customers, which is not within our control.  We deliver Internet-based services and,
accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the Internet. This access is currently provided by third parties that have significant market power in the broadband and Internet access marketplace, including incumbent
telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and government-owned service provides — all of whom are outside of our control. In the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by Internet service providers, we may be
impeded from providing services, resulting in a loss of potential or existing customers. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Our products may be subject to product liability legal claims, which could have an adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Certain of our products provide applications that relate
to patient clinical information. Any failure by our products to provide accurate and timely information concerning patients, their medication, treatment and health status, generally, could result in claims against us which could materially and
adversely impact our financial performance, industry reputation and ability to market new system sales. In addition, a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed
practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to assertions of malpractice, other personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery/handling of healthcare
services or erroneous health information. We maintain insurance to protect against claims associated with the use of our products as well as liability limitation language in our end-user license agreements, but there can be no assurance that our
insurance coverage or contractual language would adequately cover any claim asserted against us. A successful claim brought against us in excess of or outside of our insurance coverage could have an adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. Even unsuccessful claims could result in our expenditure of funds for litigation and management time and resources.  Certain healthcare professionals who use our Internet-based products will directly enter health information about their patients including information that constitutes a record under applicable law that we may
store on our computer systems. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, the common law and contractual obligations, govern collection, dissemination, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information, including: 
 


 
•
 
 state and federal privacy and confidentiality laws;   


 
•
 
 our contracts with clients and partners;   


 
•
 
 state laws regulating healthcare professionals;   


 
•
 
 Medicaid laws;   


 
•
 
 the HIPAA and related rules proposed by the Health Care Financing Administration; and 
 


 
•
 
 Health Care Financing Administration standards for Internet transmission of health data. 
HIPAA establishes elements including, but not limited to, federal privacy and security standards for the use and protection of Protected Health
Information. Any failure by us or by our personnel or partners to comply with applicable requirements may result in a material liability to us.  Although we have systems and policies in place for safeguarding Protected Health Information from unauthorized disclosure, these systems and policies may not preclude claims against us for alleged violations of
applicable requirements. Also, third party sites and/or links that consumers may access through our web sites may not maintain adequate systems to safeguard this information, or may circumvent systems and policies we have put in place. In addition,
future laws or changes in current laws may necessitate costly adaptations to our policies, procedures, or systems.  There can be no
assurance that we will not be subject to product liability claims, that such claims will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be
available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates. Such product liability claims could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
We are subject to the effect of payor and provider conduct which we cannot control and accordingly, there is no assurance that revenue for
our services will continue at historic levels.  We offer certain electronic claims submission products and services as part of
our product line. While we have implemented certain product features designed to maximize the accuracy and 
  24 


Table of Contents

completeness of claims submissions, these features may not be sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims data from being submitted to payors. Should inaccurate claims data be submitted to payors, we
may be subject to liability claims.  Electronic data transmission services are offered by certain payors to healthcare providers that
establish a direct link between the provider and payor. This process reduces revenue to third party EDI service providers such as us. As a result of this, and other market factors, we are unable to ensure that we will continue to generate revenue at
or in excess of prior levels for such services.  A significant increase in the utilization of direct links between healthcare providers
and payors could adversely affect our transaction volume and financial results. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to maintain our existing links to payors or develop new connections on terms that are economically
satisfactory to us, if at all.  Risks Related to Regulation  We face increasing involvement of the federal government in our industry, which may give rise to uncertain and unwarranted expectations concerning the benefits we are to receive from government funding and
programs.  In February 2009, President Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
(“ARRA”), which allocates over $20 billion dollars to healthcare IT over the next several years. The provision of the legislation that addresses health information technology specifically is known as the Health Information Technology
for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH Act”). Under the provisions of HITECH Act, the ARRA includes significant financial incentives to healthcare providers who can demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology beginning in
2011. While we expect the ARRA to create significant opportunities for sales of NextGenehr over the next several years, we are unsure of the immediate or long-term impact from the ARRA.  In order for our customers to qualify for incentives related to EHR use, our products must meet various requirements for product certification under the regulations and must enable our customers to achieve
“meaningful use,” as such term is currently defined under the July 28, 2010 Final Rule adopted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“CMS”), and under any
future regulations and guidance that CMS may release related to the incentive program. The CMS Final Rule provides for a phased approach to implementation of the meaningful use standards, with Stage 1 set forth in the final rule and Stages 2 and 3
reserved for future rulemaking based upon the experiences with Stage 1. Also, a final rule has been implemented by the Office of National Coordinator, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, to adopt an initial set of standards, implementation
specifications, and certification criteria to enhance the use of health information technology and support its meaningful use. Given that CMS will release future regulations related to electronic health records, our ability to achieve product
certification by CCHIT® and other regulatory bodies, and the length, if any, of additional related development and other
efforts required to meet meaningful use standards could materially impact our ability to compete and to maximize our market opportunity. 
We face the risks and uncertainties that are associated with litigation against us, which may adversely impact our marketing, distract
management and have a negative impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We face the risks
associated with litigation concerning the operation of our business. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved litigation may have an adverse effect on our business. In particular, such litigation could impair our relationships with
existing clients and our ability to obtain new clients. Defending such litigation may result in a diversion of management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial condition. Such litigation may also have the effect of discouraging potential acquirers from bidding for us or reducing the consideration such acquirers would otherwise be willing to pay in connection with an acquisition.

  25 


Table of Contents
There can be no assurance that such litigation will not result in liability in excess of our insurance coverage, that
our insurance will cover such claims or that appropriate insurance will continue to be available to us in the future at commercially reasonable rates.  Proprietary rights are material to our success, and the misappropriation of these rights could adversely affect our business and our financial condition. 
We are heavily dependent on the maintenance and protection of our intellectual property and we rely largely on license agreements, confidentiality
procedures and employee nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. Our software is not patented and existing copyright laws offer only limited practical protection. 
There can be no assurance that the legal protections and precautions we take will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology or that
competitors will not independently develop technologies equivalent or superior to ours. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and are often not
enforced as vigorously as those in the United States.  We do not believe that our operations or products infringe on the intellectual
property rights of others. However, there can be no assurance that others will not assert infringement or trade secret claims against us with respect to our current or future products or that any such assertion will not require us to enter into a
license agreement or royalty arrangement or other financial arrangement with the party asserting the claim. Responding to and defending any such claims may distract the attention of our management and adversely affect our business, results of
operations and financial condition. In addition, claims may be brought against third parties from which we purchase software, and such claims could adversely affect our ability to access third party software for our systems. 
If we are deemed to infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing
our products and services.  We have been, and may be in the future, subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the
number of our competitors grows and our applications’ functionality is viewed as similar or overlapping with competitive products. We do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties. However,
claims are occasionally asserted against us, and we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future. Also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. We could incur substantial costs and
diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims — even if we are ultimately successful in the defense of such matters. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as
well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our
products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  We are dependent on our license rights and
other services from third parties, which may cause us to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments.  We depend upon licenses
for some of the technology used in our products as well as other services from third-party vendors. Most of these arrangements can be continued/renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated for any number of reasons. We may not be able to
continue using the products or services made available to us under these arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. As a result, we may have to discontinue, delay or reduce product shipments or services provided until we can obtain
equivalent technology or services. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive. Our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the business elements covered by these arrangements and use these elements to compete directly with us. In
addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue 
  26 


Table of Contents

providing their technology or services in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we may not be able to modify or adapt our own products. 
There is significant uncertainty in the healthcare industry in which we operate, and we are subject to the possibility of changing government
regulation, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The healthcare industry is
subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences that may affect the procurement processes and operation of healthcare facilities. During the past several years, the healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in
governmental regulation of, among other things, reimbursement rates and certain capital expenditures.  Recently enacted public laws
reforming the U.S. healthcare system may have an impact on our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (H.R. 3590; Public Law 111-148) (“PPACA”) and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (H.R. 4872) (the
“Reconciliation Act”), which amends the PPACA (collectively the “Health Reform Laws”), were signed into law in March 2010. The Health Reform Laws contain various provisions which may impact us and our customers. Some of
these provisions may have a positive impact, by expanding the use of electronic health records in certain federal programs, for example, while others, such as reductions in reimbursement for certain types of providers, may have a negative impact due
to fewer available resources. Increases in fraud and abuse penalties may also adversely affect participants in the health care sector, including us.  Various legislators have announced that they intend to examine further proposals to reform certain aspects of the U.S. healthcare system. Healthcare providers may react to these proposals, and the uncertainty
surrounding such proposals, by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our systems and related services. Cost-containment measures instituted by healthcare providers as a result of regulatory reform or otherwise could result in a
reduction in the allocation of capital funds. Such a reduction could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our systems and related services. On the other hand, changes in the regulatory environment have increased and may continue to increase
the needs of healthcare organizations for cost-effective data management and thereby enhance the overall market for healthcare management information systems. We cannot predict what effect, if any, such proposals or healthcare reforms might have on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.  As existing regulations mature and become better defined, we anticipate
that these regulations will continue to directly affect certain of our products and services, but we cannot fully predict the effect at this time. We have taken steps to modify our products, services and internal practices as necessary to facilitate
our compliance with the regulations, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely or complete manner. Achieving compliance with these regulations could be costly and distract management’s attention and divert other
company resources, and any noncompliance by us could result in civil and criminal penalties.  Developments of additional federal and
state regulations and policies have the potential to positively or negatively affect our business.  Our software may potentially be
subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) as a medical device. Such regulation could require the registration of the applicable manufacturing facility and software and hardware products, application of detailed
record-keeping and manufacturing standards, and FDA approval or clearance prior to marketing. An approval or clearance requirement could create delays in marketing, and the FDA could require supplemental filings or object to certain of these
applications, the result of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  27 


Table of Contents
We may be subject to false or fraudulent claim laws. 
There are numerous federal and state laws that forbid submission of false information or the failure to disclose information in connection with
submission and payment of physician claims for reimbursement. In some cases, these laws also forbid abuse of existing systems for such submission and payment. Any failure of our RCM services to comply with these laws and regulations could result in
substantial liability including, but not limited to, criminal liability, could adversely affect demand for our services and could force us to expend significant capital, research and development and other resources to address the failure. Errors by
us or our systems with respect to entry, formatting, preparation or transmission of claim information may be determined or alleged to be in violation of these laws and regulations. Determination by a court or regulatory agency that our services
violate these laws could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, invalidate all or portions of some of our client contracts, require us to change or terminate some portions of our business, require us to refund portions of our services fees,
cause us to be disqualified from serving clients doing business with government payors and have an adverse effect on our business.  In
most cases where we are permitted to do so, we calculate charges for our RCM services based on a percentage of the collections that our clients receive as a result of our services. To the extent that violations or liability for violations of these
laws and regulations require intent, it may be alleged that this percentage calculation provides us or our employees with incentive to commit or overlook fraud or abuse in connection with submission and payment of reimbursement claims. The U.S.
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has stated that it is concerned that percentage-based billing services may encourage billing companies to commit or to overlook fraudulent or abusive practices. 
A portion of our business involves billing of Medicare claims on behalf of its clients. In an effort to combat fraudulent Medicare claims, the
federal government offers rewards for reporting of Medicare fraud which could encourage others to subject us to a charge of fraudulent claims, including charges that are ultimately proven to be without merit. 
If our products fail to comply with evolving government and industry standards and regulations, we may have difficulty selling our products.
 We may be subject to additional federal and state statutes and regulations in connection with offering services and products via
the Internet. On an increasingly frequent basis, federal and state legislators are proposing laws and regulations that apply to Internet commerce and communications. Areas being affected by these regulations include user privacy, pricing, content,
taxation, copyright protection, distribution, and quality of products and services. To the extent that our products and services are subject to these laws and regulations, the sale of our products and services could be harmed. 
We are subject to changes in and interpretations of financial accounting matters that govern the measurement of our performance, one or more
of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations.  Based on our
reading and interpretations of relevant guidance, principles or concepts issued by, among other authorities, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Commission, we believe our current
sales and licensing contract terms and business arrangements have been properly reported. However, there continue to be issued interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant standards to a wide range of sales and licensing contract terms and
business arrangements that are prevalent in the software industry. Future interpretations or changes by the regulators of existing accounting standards or changes in our business practices could result in changes in our revenue recognition and/or
other accounting policies and practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flows, revenue and results of operations. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business, and our per share price may be adversely affected. 
Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to
implement Section 404, we are required to include in our Form 10-K a report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The assessment must include disclosure of any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. 
As part of the ongoing evaluation being undertaken by management and our independent registered public accountants pursuant to Section 404, our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2012. However, if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting, we may discover material weaknesses that we
would then be required to disclose. Any material weaknesses identified in our internal controls could have an adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results, and we might be subject to
investigation by regulatory authorities. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have an adverse effect on our stock price. 
No evaluation process can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect and correct all failures within our company to disclose
material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, if we continue to expand, through either organic growth or through
acquisitions (or both), the challenges involved in implementing appropriate controls will increase and may require that we evolve some or all of our internal control processes.  It is also possible that the overall scope of Section 404 may be revised in the future, thereby causing ourselves to review, revise or reevaluate our internal control processes which may result in the
expenditure of additional human and financial resources.  Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock 
The unpredictability of our quarterly operating results may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. 
Our revenue may fluctuate in the future from quarter to quarter and period to period, as a result of a number of factors including, without
limitation:   


 
•
 
 the size and timing of orders from clients;   


 
•
 
 the specific mix of software, hardware and services in client orders; 
 


 
•
 
 the length of sales cycles and installation processes;   


 
•
 
 the ability of our clients to obtain financing for the purchase of our products; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in pricing policies or price reductions by us or our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 the timing of new product announcements and product introductions by us or our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) or
other rule-making bodies;   


 
•
 
 accounting policies concerning the timing of the recognition of revenue; 
 


 
•
 
 the availability and cost of system components;   


 
•
 
 the financial stability of clients; 
  29 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 market acceptance of new products, applications and product enhancements; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to develop, introduce and market new products, applications and product enhancements; 
 


 
•
 
 our success in expanding our sales and marketing programs;   


 
•
 
 deferrals of client orders in anticipation of new products, applications, product enhancements, or public/private sector initiatives;
  


 
•
 
 execution of or changes to our strategy;   


 
•
 
 personnel changes; and   


 
•
 
 general market/economic factors. 
Our software products are generally shipped as orders are received and accordingly, we have historically operated with a minimal backlog of license
fees. As a result, revenue in any quarter is dependent on orders booked and shipped in that quarter and is not predictable with any degree of certainty. Furthermore, our systems can be relatively large and expensive, and individual systems sales can
represent a significant portion of our revenue and profits for a quarter such that the loss or deferral of even one such sale can adversely affect our quarterly revenue and profitability. 
Clients often defer systems purchases until our quarter end, so quarterly results generally cannot be predicted and frequently are not known until
after the quarter has concluded.  Our sales are dependent upon clients’ initial decisions to replace or substantially modify their
existing information systems, and subsequently, their decision concerning which products and services to purchase. These are major decisions for healthcare providers and, accordingly, the sales cycle for our systems can vary significantly and
typically ranges from six to twenty-four months from initial contact to contract execution/shipment.  Because a significant percentage of
our expenses are relatively fixed, a variation in the timing of systems sales, implementations and installations can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. As a result, we believe that interim period-to-period
comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Further, our historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future performance for any
particular period.  We currently recognize revenue in accordance with the applicable accounting guidance as defined by the FASB.
 There can be no assurance that application and subsequent interpretations of these pronouncements will not further modify our revenue
recognition policies, or that such modifications would not adversely affect our operating results reported in any particular quarter or year.  Due to all of the foregoing factors, it is possible that our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the price of our common stock would likely be
adversely affected.  Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors purchasing
shares of our common stock and in litigation against us.  Volatility may be caused by a number of factors including but not
limited to:   


 
•
 
 actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results; 
 


 
•
 
 rumors about our performance, software solutions, or merger and acquisition activity; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; 
  30 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 governmental regulatory action;   


 
•
 
 health care reform measures;   


 
•
 
 client relationship developments;   


 
•
 
 purchases or sales of company stock;   


 
•
 
 activities by one or more of our major shareholders concerning our policies and operations; 
 


 
•
 
 changes occurring in the markets in general;   


 
•
 
 macroeconomic conditions, both nationally and internationally; and 
 


 
•
 
 other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the market for software, healthcare and high technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating
performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. 
Moreover, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market
price of its securities. We may in the future be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 
Two of our directors are significant shareholders, which makes it possible for them to have significant influence over the outcome of all
matters submitted to our shareholders for approval and which influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders.  Two of our directors are significant shareholders who beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 32.8% of the outstanding shares of our common stock at March 31, 2012. California law and our Bylaws permit
our shareholders to cumulate their votes, the effect of which is to provide shareholders with sufficiently large concentrations of our shares the opportunity to assure themselves one or more seats on our Board of Directors. The amounts required to
assure a seat on our Board Directors can vary based upon the number of shares outstanding, the number of shares voting, the number of directors to be elected, the number of “broker non-votes,” and the number of shares held by the
shareholder exercising the cumulative voting rights. In the event that cumulative voting is invoked, it is likely that these two directors that are significant shareholders will each have sufficient votes to assure themselves of one or more seats on
our Board of Directors. With or without cumulative voting, these two significant shareholders will have substantial influence over the outcome of all matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of our directors and
other corporate actions. This influence may be alleged to conflict with our interests and the interests of our other shareholders. For example, in fiscal year 2009, one of the significant shareholders proposed a different slate of directors than
what our Company proposed to shareholders. We spent approximately $1.5 million to defend our Company’s slate of directors. In addition, such influence by one or both of these shareholders could have the effect of discouraging others from
attempting to acquire our Company or create actual or perceived governance instabilities that could adversely affect the price of our common stock.  Our future policy concerning the payment of dividends is uncertain, which could adversely affect the price of our stock.  We announced our intention to pay a quarterly dividend commencing with the conclusion of our first fiscal quarter of 2008 (June 30, 2007) and pursuant to this policy our Board of Directors has declared a
quarterly cash dividend ranging from $0.125 to its most recent level of $0.175 per share on our outstanding shares of common stock, each quarter thereafter. We anticipate that future quarterly dividends, if and when declared by our Board of
Directors pursuant to this policy, would likely be distributable on or about the fifth day of each of the months of October, January, April and July. There 
  31 


Table of Contents

can be no guarantees that we will have the financial ability to fund this dividend in perpetuity or to pay it at historic rates. Further, our Board of Directors may decide not to pay the dividend
at some future time for financial or non-financial reasons. Unfulfilled expectations regarding future dividends could adversely affect the price of our stock.   


ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED
STAFF COMMENTS  None
  


ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES
 Our corporate headquarters, the QSI Dental
Division and the NextGen Division training operations are located in Irvine, California. We believe that our present facilities are adequate for our current needs. Should we continue to grow, we may be required to lease or acquire additional space.
We believe that suitable additional or substitute space is available, if needed, at market rates.  As of March 31, 2012, we lease an
aggregate of approximately 352,800 square feet of space with lease agreements expiring at various dates. Significant locations are as follows:   








 
  
Square Feet
 

 QSI Dental Division (including Corporate Headquarters)
  




 Irvine, California
  
 
43,700
  

 NextGen Division
  




 Horsham, Pennsylvania
  
 
98,000
  

 Atlanta, Georgia
  
 
34,800
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  




 Austin, Texas
  
 
39,200
  

 Irvine, California
  
 
4,200
  

 RCM Services Division
  




 St. Louis, Missouri
  
 
58,000
  

 Hunt Valley, Maryland
  
 
33,500
  

 Other locations
  
 
41,400
  


  
  
  
 

 Total leased properties
  
 
352,800
  


  
  
  
 
  


ITEM 3.    LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS  As of the date of the filing of
this Report, we know of no material, existing or pending legal proceedings against our Company, nor are we involved as a plaintiff in any material proceeding or pending litigation. There are no proceedings in which any of our directors, officers or
affiliates, or any registered or beneficial shareholder, is an adverse party or has a material interest adverse to our interest.   


ITEM 4.    MINE
AND SAFETY DISCLOSURES  Not applicable.
 PART II   


ITEM 5.    MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Market Price and Holders  Our common stock is traded on the
NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “QSII.” 
  32 


Table of Contents
On July 27, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a two-for-one split of our common stock and a
proportional increase in the number of our common shares authorized from 50 million to 100 million. Each shareholder of record at the close of business on October 6, 2011 received one additional share for every outstanding share held on
the record date. The additional shares were distributed October 26, 2011 and trading began on a split-adjusted basis on October 27, 2011. All share and per share amounts have been restated for all periods presented to reflect the
two-for-one split of our common stock.  The following table sets forth for the quarters indicated the high and low sales prices for each
period indicated, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market:   












 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Three Months Ended June 30, 2010
  
$
34.45
  
  
$
26.93
  

 September 30, 2010
  
$
33.64
  
  
$
26.45
  

 December 31, 2010
  
$
35.91
  
  
$
29.18
  

 March 31, 2011
  
$
41.84
  
  
$
34.67
  

 June 30, 2011
  
$
45.79
  
  
$
38.64
  

 September 30, 2011
  
$
50.70
  
  
$
37.05
  

 December 31, 2011
  
$
49.22
  
  
$
33.08
  

 March 31, 2012
  
$
45.00
  
  
$
35.82
  
 At May 21, 2012, there were approximately 85 holders of record of our common stock. 
Dividends  In January 2007, our Board of
Directors adopted a policy whereby we intend to pay a regular quarterly dividend of $0.125 per share on our outstanding common stock, subject to further review and approval and the establishment of record and distribution dates by our Board of
Directors prior to the declaration of each such quarterly dividend. Our Board of Directors subsequently increased the quarterly dividend to $0.150 per share in August 2008 and to $0.175 per share in January 2011. We anticipate that future quarterly
dividends, if and when declared by our Board of Directors pursuant to this policy, would likely be distributable on or about the fifth day of each of the months of October, January, April and July. 
On May 24, 2012, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.175 per share on the Company’s outstanding shares of
Common Stock, payable to shareholders of record as of June 15, 2012 with an expected distribution date on or about July 3, 2012. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the periods presented: 
 












 Declaration Date
  
 Record Date
  
 Payment Date
  
Per ShareDividend
 

 May 25, 2011
  
June 17, 2011
  
July 5, 2011
  
$
0.175
  

 July 27, 2011
  
September 19, 2011
  
October 5, 2011
  
 
0.175
  

 October 26, 2011
  
December 20, 2011
  
January 5, 2012
  
 
0.175
  

 January 25, 2012
  
March 20, 2012
  
April 5, 2012
  
 
0.175
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 Fiscal year 2012
  

  

  
$
0.700
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 May 26, 2010
  
June 17, 2010
  
July 6, 2010
  
$
0.150
  

 July 28, 2010
  
September 17, 2010
  
October 5, 2010
  
 
0.150
  

 October 25, 2010
  
December 17, 2010
  
January 5, 2011
  
 
0.150
  

 January 26, 2011
  
March 17, 2011
  
April 5, 2011
  
 
0.175
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 Fiscal year 2011
  

  

  
$
0.625
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 May 27, 2009
  
June 12, 2009
  
July 6, 2009
  
$
0.150
  

 July 23, 2009
  
September 25, 2009
  
October 5, 2009
  
 
0.150
  

 October 28, 2009
  
December 23, 2009
  
January 5, 2010
  
 
0.150
  

 January 27, 2010
  
March 23, 2010
  
April 5, 2010
  
 
0.150
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 Fiscal year 2010
  

  

  
$
0.600
  


  

  

  
  
  
 
 Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors after taking into account
various factors, including without limitation, our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph  The following graph compares the cumulative total returns of our common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing Services Stock Index over the five-year period ended
March 31, 2012 assuming $100 was invested on March 31, 2007 with all dividends, if any, reinvested. This performance graph shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act.  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* 
Among Quality Systems, Inc., The NASDAQ Composite Index  And The NASDAQ Computer & Data Processing Index    

  


*
$100 invested on 3/31/2007 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending March 31. 
The last trade price of our common stock on each of March 31, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 was published by NASDAQ and, accordingly for the
periods ended March 31, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, the reported last trade price was utilized to compute the total cumulative return for our common stock for the respective periods then ended. Shareholder returns over the indicated
periods should not be considered indicative of future stock prices or shareholder returns. 
  35 


Table of Contents


ITEM 6.    SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA  The following
selected financial data with respect to our consolidated statements of income data for each of the five years in the period ended March 31, 2012 and the consolidated balance sheets data as of the end of each such fiscal year are derived from
our audited consolidated financial statements. The following information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included elsewhere herein.  Consolidated Financial Data 
 
























 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
2008
 

 
  
(In thousands, except per share data)
 

 Statements of Income Data:
  



 



  



  



 




 Revenue
  
$
429,835
  
 
$
353,363
  
  
$
291,811
  
  
$
245,515
  
 
$
186,500
  

 Cost of revenue
  
 
151,223
  
 
 
127,482
  
  
 
110,807
  
  
 
88,890
  
 
 
62,501
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
278,612
  
 
 
225,881
  
  
 
181,004
  
  
 
156,625
  
 
 
123,999
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
128,846
  
 
 
108,310
  
  
 
86,951
  
  
 
69,410
  
 
 
53,260
  

 Research and development costs
  
 
31,369
  
 
 
21,797
  
  
 
16,546
  
  
 
13,777
  
 
 
11,350
  

 Amortization of acquired intangible assets
  
 
2,198
  
 
 
1,682
  
  
 
1,783
  
  
 
1,035
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
116,199
  
 
 
94,092
  
  
 
75,724
  
  
 
72,403
  
 
 
59,389
  

 Interest income
  
 
247
  
 
 
263
  
  
 
226
  
  
 
1,203
  
 
 
2,661
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
(139
) 
 
 
61
  
  
 
268
  
  
 
(279
) 
 
 
953
  

 Income before provision for income taxes
  
 
116,307
  
 
 
94,416
  
  
 
76,218
  
  
 
73,327
  
 
 
63,003
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
40,650
  
 
 
32,810
  
  
 
27,839
  
  
 
27,208
  
 
 
22,925
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
 
$
61,606
  
  
$
48,379
  
  
$
46,119
  
 
$
40,078
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic net income per share
  
$
1.29
  
 
$
1.06
  
  
$
0.84
  
  
$
0.82
  
 
$
0.73
  

 Diluted net income per share
  
$
1.28
  
 
$
1.06
  
  
$
0.84
  
  
$
0.81
  
 
$
0.72
  

 Basic weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
58,729
  
 
 
57,894
  
  
 
57,270
  
  
 
56,062
  
 
 
54,596
  

 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding
  
 
59,049
  
 
 
58,236
  
  
 
57,592
  
  
 
56,792
  
 
 
55,540
  

 Dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.700
  
 
$
0.625
  
  
$
0.600
  
  
$
0.575
  
 
$
0.500
  
  
























 
  
March 31, 2012
 
  
March 31, 2011
 
  
March 31, 2010
 
  
March 31, 2009
 
  
March 31, 2008
 

 Balance Sheet Data:
  



  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
134,444
  
  
$
116,617
  
  
$
84,611
  
  
$
70,180
  
  
$
59,046
  

 Working capital
  
$
183,277
  
  
$
145,758
  
  
$
118,935
  
  
$
98,980
  
  
$
79,932
  

 Total assets
  
$
440,352
  
  
$
378,686
  
  
$
310,180
  
  
$
242,101
  
  
$
187,908
  

 Total liabilities
  
$
145,175
  
  
$
154,016
  
  
$
121,891
  
  
$
86,534
  
  
$
74,203
  

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
$
295,177
  
  
$
224,670
  
  
$
188,289
  
  
$
155,567
  
  
$
113,705
  

  36 


Table of Contents


ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this management’s discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations (“MD&A”), including discussions of our product development plans, business strategies and market factors influencing our results, may include forward-looking statements that involve certain risks and
uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those anticipated by us as a result of various factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, including, but not limited to, our ability to continue to develop new products and increase systems sales in markets
characterized by rapid technological evolution, consolidation and competition from larger, better-capitalized competitors. Many other economic, competitive, governmental and technological factors could affect our ability to achieve our goals and
interested persons are urged to review any risks that may be described in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” as set forth herein, as well as in our other public disclosures and filings with the SEC. 
Overview  This MD&A, is provided as a
supplement to the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Report in order to enhance your understanding of our results of operations and financial condition and should be read in conjunction with, and is
qualified in its entirety by, the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this this Report. Historical results of operations, percentage margin fluctuations and any trends that may be inferred from the
discussion below are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period.  Our MD&A is organized as follows: 
 


 
•
 
 Management Overview.    This section provides a general description of our Company and operating segments, a discussion as to how we
derive our revenue, background information on certain trends and developments affecting our Company, a summary of our acquisition transactions and a discussion on management’s strategy for driving revenue growth. 
 


 
•
 
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.    This section discusses those accounting policies that are considered important to the
evaluation and reporting of our financial condition and results of operations, and whose application requires us to exercise subjective or complex judgments in making estimates and assumptions. In addition, all of our significant accounting
policies, including our critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of our notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report.
  


 
•
 
 Company Overview.    This section provides a more detailed description of our Company, operating segments, products and services
offered.   


 
•
 
 Overview of Results of Operations and Results of Operations by Operating Divisions.    These sections provide our analysis and outlook
for the significant line items on our consolidated statements of income, as well as other information that we deem meaningful to understand our results of operations on both a consolidated basis and an operating division basis.
  


 
•
 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources.    This section provides an analysis of our liquidity and cash flows and discussions of our
contractual obligations and commitments as of March 31, 2012.   


 
•
 
 New Accounting Pronouncements. This section provides a summary of the most recent authoritative accounting standards and guidance that have either been
recently adopted by our Company or may be adopted in the future.  Management Overview 
Quality Systems, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries operate as four business divisions which are comprised of: (i) the QSI Dental Division,
(ii) the NextGen Division, (iii) the Hospital Solutions Division 
  37 


Table of Contents

and (iv) the RCM Services Division. In fiscal year 2011, we opened a captive entity in India called Quality Systems India Healthcare Private Limited (“QSIH”). We primarily derive
revenue by developing and marketing healthcare information systems that automate certain aspects of medical and dental practices, networks of practices such as physician hospital organizations (“PHOs”) and management service organizations
(“MSOs”), ambulatory care centers, community health centers and medical and dental schools along with comprehensive systems implementation, maintenance and support and add on complementary services such as revenue cycle management
(“RCM”) and electronic data interchange (“EDI”). Our systems and services provide our clients with the ability to redesign patient care and other workflow processes while improving productivity through the facilitation of managed
access to patient information. Utilizing our proprietary software in combination with third-party hardware and software solutions, our products enable the integration of a variety of administrative and clinical information operations. 
On August 12, 2009, we acquired Sphere, a provider of financial information systems to the small hospital inpatient market. On
February 10, 2010, we acquired Opus, a provider of web-based clinical solutions to hospital systems and integrated health networks nationwide. On April 29, 2011, we acquired IntraNexus, a provider of web-based integrated clinical and
hospital information systems. On July 26, 2011, we acquired CQI, a provider of hospital systems for surgery management. These acquisitions are part of tour strategy to expand into the small hospital market and to add new clients by taking
advantage of cross selling opportunities between the ambulatory and inpatient markets. All these companies were established developers of software and services for the inpatient market and are operating under the Hospital Solutions Division.
 On November 14, 2011, we acquired ViaTrack, a developer and provider of information technologies that enhance EDI offerings. This
acquisition provides a platform to pursue significant opportunities that exist to add EDI services to our portfolio of offerings in the Inpatient market and is operating under the QSI Dental Division. 
In January 2011, QSIH was formed in Bangalore, India to function as our India-based captive to offshore technology application development and
business processing services.  Our strategy is to focus on providing software and services to the medical and dental communities, both in
the ambulatory and inpatient settings. The key elements of this strategy are to continue development and enhancement of our software solutions to support healthcare reform and the transition from fee for service to pay for performance/quality
initiatives such as accountable care organizations. We also want to continue to bring further integration between our ambulatory and inpatient products, to continue investments in our infrastructure including but not limited to product development,
sales, marketing, implementation and support, to continue efforts to make infrastructure investments within an overall context of maintaining reasonable expense discipline, to add new clients through maintaining and expanding sales, marketing and
product development activities and to expand our relationship with existing clients through delivery of add-on and complementary products and services while continuing our gold-standard commitment of service in support of our client satisfaction
programs. We believe that our growing customer base that is using our software on a daily basis is a strategic asset, and we intend to expand our product and service offerings towards this customer base in order to leverage this strategic asset.
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  The discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial statements and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related
disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate estimates (including but not limited to those related to revenue recognition, uncollectible accounts receivable, software development cost, intangible assets and

  38 


Table of Contents

self-insurance accruals) for reasonableness. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that management believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that may not be readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
 We believe that the significant accounting policies, as described in Note 2 of our consolidated financial statements, “Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies” should be read in conjunction with management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. We believe the following table depicts the most critical accounting policies that
affect our consolidated financial statements:   






Revenue Recognition
  
Judgments and Uncertainties

 We generate revenue from the sale of licensing rights to use our software products sold directly to end-users and value-added resellers, or VARs.
We also generate revenue from sales of hardware and third party software, implementation, training, software customization, EDI, post-contract support (maintenance) and other services, including RCM services, performed for clients who license
our products.   Revenue from implementation and training services is recognized as the
corresponding services are performed. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual maintenance period. RCM revenue is derived from services fees, which include amounts charged for ongoing billing and other related services and are
generally billed to the client as a percentage of total collections. We do not recognize revenue for services fees until these collections are made as the services fees are not fixed or determinable until such time.
  
 A typical system contract contains multiple elements of the above items. Revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements is
allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of those elements. The fair value of an element is based on vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”). The Company limits its assessment of VSOE for each element to either the
price charged when the same element is sold separately or the price established by management having the relevant authority to do so, for an element not yet sold separately. VSOE calculations are updated and reviewed quarterly or annually depending
on the nature of the product or service. The Company has established VSOE for the related undelivered elements based on the bell-shaped curve method. Maintenance VSOE for the Company’s largest clients is based on stated renewal rates only if
the rate is determined to be substantive and falls within the Company’s customary pricing practices.   When evidence of fair value exists for the delivered and undelivered elements of a transaction, then discounts for individual elements are aggregated and the total discount is allocated to the individual elements
in proportion to the elements’ fair value relative to the total contract fair value.   When evidence of fair value exists for the undelivered elements only, the residual method is used. Under the residual method, the Company defers revenue related to the undelivered elements in a system sale based on
VSOE of fair value of each of the undelivered elements and allocates the remainder of the contract price net of all discounts to revenue recognized from the delivered elements. If VSOE of fair value of any undelivered element does not exist, all
revenue is deferred until VSOE of fair value of the undelivered element is established or the element has been delivered.
  39 


Table of Contents






Revenue Recognition (continued)
  
 


  
The Company records accounts receivable for the entire system sales contract amount upon contract execution except for arrangements that provide for services to be billed as incurred.
Amounts billed in excess of the amounts contractually due are recorded in accounts receivable as advance billings. Amounts are contractually due when services are performed or in accordance with contractually specified payment dates. Provided the
fees are fixed or determinable and collection is considered probable, revenue from licensing rights and sales of hardware and third-party software is generally recognized upon physical or electronic shipment and transfer of title. In certain
transactions where collection risk is high, the revenue is deferred until collection occurs or becomes probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable, then the revenue recognized in each period (subject to application of other revenue recognition
criteria) will be the lesser of the aggregate of amounts due and payable or the amount of the arrangement fee that would have been recognized if the fees were being recognized using the residual method. Fees which are considered fixed or
determinable at the inception of the Company’s arrangements must include the following characteristics:





  
 •  Thefee must be negotiated at the outset of an arrangement and generally be based on the specific volume of products to
be delivered without being subject to change based on variable pricing mechanisms such as the number of units copied or distributed or the expected number of users; and





  
 •  Paymentterms must not be considered extended. If a significant portion of the fee is due more than 12 months
after delivery or after the expiration of the license, the fee is presumed not fixed or determinable.





  
Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions


  
Although we believe that our approach to estimates and judgments as described herein is reasonable, actual results could differ and we may be exposed to increases or decreases in revenue
that could be material.
  40 


Table of Contents






 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
  
Judgments and Uncertainties

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our clients to make required payments. We perform credit evaluations of our clients and
maintain reserves for estimated credit losses. Reserves for potential credit losses are determined by establishing both specific and general reserves.
  
Specific reserves are based on management’s estimate of the probability of collection for certain troubled accounts. General reserves are established based on our historical
experience of bad debt expense and the aging of our accounts receivable balances net of deferred revenue and specifically reserved accounts. If the financial condition of our clients were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to
make payments, additional allowances would be required.





  
Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions





  
Although we believe that our approach to estimates and judgments as described herein is reasonable, actual results could differ and we may be exposed to increases or decreases in required
reserves that could be material.

 Software Development Costs
  
Judgments and Uncertainties

Development costs incurred in the research and development of new software products and enhancements to existing software products for external use are expensed as incurred until
technological feasibility has been established. After technological feasibility is established, any additional external software development costs are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the related
product, which is typically three years.
  
 We perform an annual review of the estimated economic life and the recoverability of such capitalized software costs. If a
determination is made that capitalized amounts are not recoverable based on the estimated cash flows to be generated from the applicable software, any remaining capitalized amounts are written off.
  Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions
  Although we believe that our approach to estimates and judgments as described herein is
reasonable, actual results could differ and we may be exposed to increases or decreases in revenue that could be material.


  


  




 Goodwill
  
Judgments and Uncertainties





  
The Company tests goodwill for impairment annually at the end of its first fiscal quarter, referred to as the annual test date, and has determined that there was no impairment to its
goodwill as of June 30, 2011. The Company will also test for impairment between annual test dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. Impairment testing for goodwill is
performed at a reporting-unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment (referred to as a component). A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business
for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component.
  41 


Table of Contents






 Goodwill (continued)
  



  
Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions





  
 We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we use to assess impairment loss during the past three fiscal years. The
first step of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with their carrying values. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, we perform the second step
of the goodwill impairment test. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying value of that goodwill. The amount by which the carrying
value of the goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, if any, is recognized as an impairment loss. As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, we have not identified any events or circumstances that would require an interim goodwill impairment
test.   We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a
material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to test for impairment losses on goodwill and other intangible assets. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment
charge that could be material.




Business Combinations — Purchase Price Allocations
  
Judgments and Uncertainties




 During the last three fiscal years, we completed four acquisitions:
  In November 2011, we acquired ViaTrack for $10.9 million.
  In July 2011, we acquired CQI for $8.5 million.
  In April 2011, we acquired IntraNexus for $4.2 million.
  In February 2010, we acquired Opus for $21.1 million.
  
In accordance with the accounting for business combinations, we allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on estimated fair values. Our purchase price allocation methodology contains uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. Management
estimates the fair value of assets and liabilities based upon quoted market prices, the carrying value of the acquired assets and widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows and market multiple analyses. Unanticipated
events or circumstances may occur which could affect the accuracy of our fair value estimates, including assumptions regarding industry economic factors and business strategies.
  42 


Table of Contents






Business Combinations — Purchase Price Allocations (continued)
  



  
Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions





  
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to complete the purchase price allocation and estimate
the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material.




 Intangible Assets
  
Judgments and Uncertainties




Intangible assets consist of trade names, customer relationships, and software technology, all is which arose in connection with the acquisition of Sphere, Opus, IntraNexus, CQI and
ViaTrack.
  
These intangible assets are recorded at fair value and are stated net of accumulated amortization. The Company currently amortizes the intangible assets using a method that reflects the
pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed.





  
Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions





  
Although we believe that our approach to estimates and judgments as described herein is reasonable, actual results could differ and we may be exposed to decreases in the fair value of our
intangible assets, resulting in impairment charges that could be material. We test intangible assets for impairment if we believe indicators of impairment exist.




 Share-Based Compensation
  
Judgments and Uncertainties




Our stock-based compensation plans consist of stock options and restricted stock units. See Note 9 of our consolidated financial statements for a complete discussion of our stock-based
compensation programs.
  
 The Company estimates the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. Expected term is
estimated using historical exercise experience. Volatility is estimated by using the weighted-average historical volatility of the Company’s common stock, which approximates expected volatility. The risk free rate is the implied yield available
on the U.S Treasury zero-coupon issues with remaining terms equal to the expected term. The expected dividend yield is the average dividend rate during a period equal to the expected term of the option. Those inputs are then entered into the Black
Scholes model to determine the estimated fair value. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized ratably as expense over the requisite service period in the Company’s consolidated statements of
income. On May 25, 2011, the Board of Directors approved its fiscal year 2012
  43 


Table of Contents






 Share-Based Compensation (continued)
  



  
 equity incentive program for certain employees to be awarded options to purchase the Company’s common stock. Under the program, executives
are eligible to receive options based on meeting certain target increases in EPS performance and revenue growth during fiscal year 2012. Non-executive employees are also eligible to receive options based on satisfying certain management established
criteria and recommendations of senior management. The options shall be issued pursuant to one of the Company’s shareholder approved option plans, have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of
grant, a term of eight years and vesting in five equal annual installments commencing one year following the date of grant.   Compensation expense associated with the performance based awards under the Company’s 2012 incentive plan are initially based on the number of options expected to vest after assessing the probability that
certain performance criteria will be met. Cumulative adjustments are recorded quarterly to reflect subsequent changes in the estimated outcome of performance-related conditions.





  
Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions





  
We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to determine stock-based compensation expense. However, if
actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to changes in stock-based compensation expense that could be material.

 Self-Insured Liabilities
  
Judgments and Uncertainties

Effective January 1, 2010, we became self-insured with respect to healthcare claims, subject to stop-loss limits. We accrue for estimated self-insurance costs and uninsured exposures
based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported as of each balance sheet date. However, it is possible that recorded accruals may not be adequate to cover the future payment of claims. Adjustments, if any, to estimated
accruals resulting from ultimate claim payments will be reflected in earnings during the periods in which such adjustments are determined.
  
 Our self-insured liabilities contain uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the
ultimate cost to settle reported claims and claims incurred but not reported at the balance sheet date.   Effect if Actual Results Differ from Assumptions   We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions we use to calculate our self-insured liabilities. However, if actual results are not
consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material.

  44 


Table of Contents
Overview of Our Results   


 
•
 
 Consolidated revenue increased 21.6% and income from operations grew by 23.5% in the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the prior year period. Revenue
was positively impacted by growth in certain recurring revenue streams including maintenance and EDI, as well as system sales revenue, which grew 26.2%, 20.1% and 19.5% over the prior period, respectively. Other services revenue, which includes
consulting and other add on services, grew 44.8% compared to the prior year.   


 
•
 
 Income from operations increased primarily from growth in both system sales and recurring revenue streams such as maintenance and EDI. This was partially offset
by: (a) higher selling, general and administrative expenses, which was primarily a result of increased headcount expenses and selling-related expenses at the NextGen Division, (b) increased research and development costs, (c) higher
corporate-related expenses and a slightly higher effective tax rate.   


 
•
 
 We have benefited and hope to continue to benefit from the increased demands on healthcare providers for greater efficiency and lower costs, financial incentives
from the ARRA to physicians who adopt electronic health records, as well as increased adoption rates for electronic health records and other technology in the healthcare arena. We also believe that healthcare reform and the movement towards pay for
performance/quality initiatives will also stimulate demand for robust enterprise electronic health record software as well.   


 
•
 
 While we expect to benefit from the increasing demands for greater efficiency as well as government support for increased adoption of electronic health records,
the current economic environment, the increased adoption rates already achieved by large practices, combined with unpredictability of the federal government’s plans to promote increased adoption of electronic medical records, makes the near
term achievement of such benefits and, ultimately, their impact on system sales, uncertain.   


 
•
 
 The consolidation of healthcare providers by Hospitals, Payers, and large physician groups is creating both competitive threats as well as opportunities for our
products. Hospital software providers are leveraging their position with their hospital customers to gain market share with hospital owned physician practices. Insurance providers and large physician groups are also consolidating physician offices
creating additional opportunity for ambulatory software providers such as NextGen.  QSI Dental Division 
 


 
•
 
 QSI Dental Division revenue decreased 1.9% in the year ended March 31, 2012 and divisional operating income (excluding unallocated corporate expenses)
decreased 28.3% as compared to the same prior year period. The decline is the result of higher selling, general and administrative expenses in the current period. It should also be noted that the QSI Dental Division’s new software solution
(“NextDDS™”) is being sold as a SaaS solution where revenue is recognized over time rather than upfront. Revenue recognized from NextDDS was not significant in the year ended March 31, 2012. Additionally, our acquisition of
ViaTrack in November 2011 did not significantly impact the QSI Dental Division results for the period.   


 
•
 
 The QSI Dental Division is well-positioned to sell to the FQHCs market and intends to continue leveraging the NextGen Division’s sales force to sell its
dental electronic medical records software to practices that provide both medical and dental services, such as FQHCs, which are receiving grants as part of the ARRA. 
 


 
•
 
 Our goal for the QSI Dental Division is to maximize profit performance given the constraints represented by a relatively weak purchasing environment in the
dental group practice market while taking advantage of opportunities with the new NextDDS™ product. 
  45 


Table of Contents
NextGen Division   


 
•
 
 NextGen Division revenue increased 22.1% in the year ended March 31, 2012 and divisional operating income (excluding unallocated corporate expenses)
increased 21.7% as compared to the prior year period.   


 
•
 
 Recurring revenue, which consists of maintenance and EDI revenue, increased 23.6% to $160.8 million and accounted for 49.4% of total NextGen Division
revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012. In the same period a year ago, recurring revenue of $130.0 million represented 48.8% of total NextGen Division revenue. 
 


 
•
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2012, we added staffing resources and increased our investment in research and development in anticipation of growth from
the ARRA and the future of healthcare reform and accountable care organizations. Our goals include taking maximum advantage of benefits related to the ARRA and continuing to further enhance our existing products, including continued efforts to
maintain our status as a qualified vendor under the ARRA, integrating our inpatient and ambulatory software products, further development and enhancements of our portfolio of specialty focused templates within our EHR software, developing new
products for targeted markets, continuing to add new clients, selling additional software and services to existing clients, expanding penetration of connectivity and other services to new and existing clients, and capitalizing on growth and cross
selling opportunities within the RCM Services Division and the Hospital Solutions Division.   


 
•
 
 The NextGen Division’s growth is attributed to a strong brand name and reputation within a growing marketplace for electronic health records and investments
in sales and marketing activities, including new marketing campaigns, trade show attendance and other expanded advertising and marketing expenditures. We have also benefited from winning numerous industry awards for the NextGen Division’s
flagship NextGenehr and
NextGenpm software products and more recently in 2010 for its NextGen HIE
product. Further, the increasing acceptance of electronic records technology in the healthcare industry continues to provide growth opportunities.  Hospital Solutions Division   


 
•
 
 Hospital Solutions Division revenue increased 92.5% in the year ended March 31, 2012 and divisional operating income (excluding unallocated corporate
expenses) increased 94.3% to $10.4 million as compared to $5.4 million for the same prior year period. This division consists of four acquisitions, CQI, IntraNexus, Opus and Sphere, acquired in July 2011, April 2011, February 2010 and
August 2009, respectively. The Hospital Solutions Division’s core products consist of financial and clinical software which we acquired with the Sphere, IntraNexus, and Opus acquisitions. Our acquisition of CQI added surgery scheduling
capability. In May, 2012 we also announced the acquisition of The Poseidon Group, a developer of emergency department software. This acquisition further adds to the Division’s offerings in the inpatient market. 
 


 
•
 
 The Hospital Solutions Division has benefited from being able to offer both financial and CCHIT® certified clinical software, which has been packaged together. The Hospital Solutions Division has also benefited from cross sell opportunities with existing NextGen
Division customers, including hospitals that are owned or affiliated with physician offices.   


 
•
 
 Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased to approximately 30.2% of revenue in the year ended March 31, 2012 versus 30.0% of revenue in the same
prior year period primarily as a result of a $16.6 million increase in divisional revenue, including system sales, implementation and training services, and maintenance. 
 


 
•
 
 We intend to continue to invest in implementation and training, support, and development to support our growing customer base. 
  46 


Table of Contents
RCM Services Division   


 
•
 
 RCM Services Division revenue increased 2.8% in the year ended March 31, 2012 and divisional operating income (excluding unallocated corporate expenses)
increased 37.8% to $5.8 million as compared to $4.2 million for the same prior year period.   


 
•
 
 The RCM Services Division benefited from organic growth achieved through cross selling RCM services to existing NextGen Division clients and well as new clients
added during the year ended March 31, 2012. The division also benefited from the cross sale of software and services to its existing customers. Systems sales to existing RCM Services customers are credited to the division.
  


 
•
 
 The Company believes that a significant opportunity exists to cross sell revenue cycle management services to existing NextGen ambulatory customers. The portion
of existing the NextGen Division’s customers who are using the RCM Services Division’s RCM services is less than 15%. There is also a significant opportunity to expand the RCM Services Division’s services into the Hospital Solution
Division’s customers as well. Management is actively pursuing efforts to achieve faster growth from expanded efforts to leverage the existing NextGen Division’s sales force towards selling revenue cycle management services.
  


 
•
 
 Operating income as a percentage of revenue increased to approximately 11.6% of revenue in the year ended March 31, 2012 versus 8.7% of revenue in the same
prior year period primarily as a result of higher RCM revenue as well as systems sales. The same prior year period also included higher expenses related to certain non-recurring integration related expenses related to integrating the two entities
that make up the RCM Services Division, transitioning and training of staff on the NextGen platform, initial set up and other costs related to achieving higher production volume from a new business. 
  47 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the percentage of net revenue represented by
each item in our consolidated statements of income (certain percentages below may not sum due to rounding):   
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012
 
 
    2011
 
 
    2010
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Software, hardware and supplies
  
 
28.5
% 
 
 
30.1
% 
 
 
30.8
% 

 Implementation and training services
  
 
6.1
  
 
 
5.1
  
 
 
4.9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 System sales
  
 
34.6
  
 
 
35.2
  
 
 
35.7
  

 Maintenance
  
 
32.3
  
 
 
31.1
  
 
 
30.6
  

 Electronic data interchange services
  
 
11.5
  
 
 
11.6
  
 
 
12.0
  

 Revenue cycle management and related services
  
 
10.6
  
 
 
12.8
  
 
 
12.6
  

 Other services
  
 
11.0
  
 
 
9.3
  
 
 
9.2
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services
  
 
65.4
  
 
 
64.8
  
 
 
64.3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  
 
 
100.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cost of revenue:
  



 



 




 Software, hardware and supplies
  
 
4.3
  
 
 
5.6
  
 
 
4.2
  

 Implementation and training services
  
 
5.0
  
 
 
4.2
  
 
 
4.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of system sales
  
 
9.2
  
 
 
9.8
  
 
 
8.3
  

 Maintenance
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
3.7
  
 
 
4.6
  

 Electronic data interchange services
  
 
7.5
  
 
 
7.8
  
 
 
8.7
  

 Revenue cycle management and related services
  
 
8.0
  
 
 
9.6
  
 
 
9.5
  

 Other services
  
 
6.4
  
 
 
5.2
  
 
 
7.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services
  
 
25.9
  
 
 
26.2
  
 
 
29.7
  

 Total cost of revenue
  
 
35.2
  
 
 
36.1
  
 
 
38.0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
64.8
  
 
 
63.9
  
 
 
62.0
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 




 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
30.0
  
 
 
30.7
  
 
 
29.8
  

 Research and development costs
  
 
7.3
  
 
 
6.2
  
 
 
5.7
  

 Amortization of acquired intangible assets
  
 
0.5
  
 
 
0.5
  
 
 
0.6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
37.8
  
 
 
37.3
  
 
 
36.1
  

 Income from operations
  
 
27.0
  
 
 
26.6
  
 
 
25.9
  

 Interest income
  
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.1
  
 
 
0.1
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.0
  
 
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before provision for income taxes
  
 
27.1
  
 
 
26.7
  
 
 
26.1
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
9.5
  
 
 
9.3
  
 
 
9.5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
17.6
% 
 
 
17.4
% 
 
 
16.6
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011 Net
Income.    The Company’s net income for the year ended March 31, 2012 was $75.7 million, or $1.29 per share on a basic and $1.28 per share on a fully diluted basis. In comparison, we earned $61.6 million, or
$1.06 per share on both a basic and fully diluted basis for the year ended March 31, 2011. The increase in net income for the year ended March 31, 2012 was primarily attributed to the following: 
 


 
•
 
 a 21.6% increase in consolidated revenue, including an increase in revenues of $58.9 million from our NextGen Division and $16.6 million from our Hospital
Solutions Division;   


 
•
 
 a 21.3% increase in consolidated software license revenue, which accounted for 77.2% of total system sales; 
  48 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 a 19.2% increase in recurring revenue, including RCM, maintenance and EDI revenue; offset by 
 


 
•
 
 an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development costs. 
Revenue.    Revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012 increased 21.6% to $429.8 million from $353.4 million for the
year ended March 31, 2011. NextGen Division revenue increased 22.1% to $325.5 million from $266.5 million in the year ended March 31, 2012, QSI Dental Division revenue decreased 1.9% to $19.6 million from $20.0 million, RCM Services
Division revenue increased 2.8% to $50.3 million from $49.0 million, and Hospital Solutions Division revenue increased 92.5% to $34.5 million from $17.9 million in the same prior year period. 
System Sales.    Revenue earned from Company-wide sales of systems for the year ended March 31, 2012 increased 19.5%
to $148.8 million from $124.5 million in the prior year period.  Our increase in revenue from sales of systems was principally the result
of a 13.9% increase in category revenue at our NextGen Division and a 114.4% increase at our Hospital Solutions Division. NextGen Division sales in this category grew $15.2 million to $124.1 million during the year ended March 31, 2012 from
$108.9 million during the same prior year period while the Hospital Solutions Division delivered a $9.5 million increase in category revenue to $17.8 million in the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to $8.3 million in the same prior year
period. The increases were driven by higher sales of software to both new and existing clients at the NextGen Division and higher software and implementation revenue at the Hospital Solutions Division. 
The following table breaks down our reported system sales into software, hardware, third-party software, supplies and implementation and training
services components on a consolidated and divisional basis for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands):   




















 
  
Software
 
  
Hardware, ThirdParty Softwareand Supplies
 
  
Implementationand TrainingServices
 
  
TotalSystemSales
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012
  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
2,865
  
  
$
1,662
  
  
$
1,104
  
  
$
5,631
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
100,517
  
  
 
4,839
  
  
 
18,708
  
  
 
124,064
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
10,576
  
  
 
987
  
  
 
6,189
  
  
 
17,752
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
961
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
390
  
  
 
1,351
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
114,919
  
  
$
7,488
  
  
$
26,391
  
  
$
148,798
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
3,239
  
  
$
2,190
  
  
$
1,066
  
  
$
6,495
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
84,812
  
  
 
8,979
  
  
 
15,097
  
  
 
108,888
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
6,187
  
  
 
612
  
  
 
1,482
  
  
 
8,281
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
473
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
370
  
  
 
865
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
94,711
  
  
$
11,803
  
  
$
18,015
  
  
$
124,529
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 NextGen Division software license revenue increased 18.5% in the year ended March 31, 2012 versus the same
period last year. The Division’s software revenue accounted for 81.0% of divisional system sales revenue during the year ended March 31, 2012 compared to 77.9% during the same period a year ago. Software license revenue continues to be an
area of primary emphasis for the NextGen Division.  Hospital Solutions Division software license revenue increased 70.9% in the year
ended March 31, 2012 versus the same period last year. The Division’s software revenue accounted for 59.6% of divisional system sales revenue during the year ended March 31, 2012 compared to 74.7% during the same period a year ago.

  49 


Table of Contents
During the year ended March 31, 2012, 3.9% of the NextGen Division’s system sales revenue
was represented by hardware and third-party software compared to 8.2% during the same period a year ago. The number of clients who purchase hardware and third-party software and the dollar amount of hardware and third-party software revenue
fluctuates each period depending on the needs of clients. The inclusion of hardware and third-party software in the NextGen Division’s sales arrangements is typically at the request of our clients. 
Implementation and training revenue related to system sales at the NextGen Division increased 23.9% in the year ended March 31, 2012 compared
to the same prior year period. Implementation and training revenue related to system sales at the Hospital Solutions Division increased 317.6%, in the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same prior year period. The amount of
implementation and training services revenue is dependent on several factors, including timing of client implementations, the availability of qualified staff and the mix of services being rendered. The number of implementation and training staff
increased during the year ended March 31, 2012 versus the same prior year period in order to accommodate the increased amount of implementation services sold in conjunction with increased software sales. In order to achieve growth in this area,
additional staffing increases and additional training facilities are anticipated, though actual future increases in revenue and staff will depend upon the availability of qualified staff, business mix and conditions and our ability to retain current
staff members.  For the RCM Services Division, total system sales increased $0.5 million, or 56.2%, to $1.4 million in the year ended
March 31, 2012 as compared to the same prior year period. Systems sales revenue within the RCM Services Division is composed of sales to existing RCM clients only and can fluctuate given the size of the current client base of the RCM Services
Division.  Maintenance, EDI, RCM and Other Services.    For the year ended March 31, 2012, our
company-wide revenue from maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services grew 22.8% to $281.0 million from $228.8 million in the same prior year period. The increase is primarily due to an increase in maintenance, EDI and other services revenue from the
NextGen and Hospital Solutions Divisions.  Total NextGen Division maintenance revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012 grew 24.1%
to $116.5 million from $93.9 million for the same prior year period while NextGen Division EDI revenue grew 22.4% to $44.2 million compared to $36.1 million in the same prior year period. Other services revenue for the NextGen Division, which
consists primarily of third-party annual software license renewals, follow-on training hours, consulting services and hosting services, increased 47.1% to $40.6 million in the year ended March 31, 2012 from $27.6 million in the same prior year
period. Other services revenue benefited from a strong increase in consulting revenue and follow-on training services revenue to existing NextGen Division customers.  The Hospital Solutions Division maintenance and other services revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012 increased 73.8% as compared to the same prior year period primarily due to a $5.9 million increase in
divisional maintenance revenue to $14.6 million from $8.6 million in the same prior year period. Maintenance revenue grew as a result of both new customers as well as the acquisitions of IntraNexus and CQI which brought additional maintenance
revenue of $4.5 million from their existing customers. QSI Dental Division maintenance, EDI and other services revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $14.0 million and $13.5 million, respectively. For the year ended
March 31, 2012, RCM revenue for the RCM Services Division grew $0.5 million, or 1.1%, to $45.6 million compared to $45.1 million in the same prior year period. 
  50 


Table of Contents
The following table details maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services revenue by category on a
consolidated and divisional basis for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands):   
























 
  
Maintenance
 
  
EDI
 
  
RCM
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012
  



  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
7,639
  
  
$
5,045
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,281
  
  
$
13,965
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
116,544
  
  
 
44,214
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
40,645
  
  
 
201,403
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
14,553
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,158
  
  
 
16,711
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
96
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
45,572
  
  
 
3,290
  
  
 
48,958
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
138,832
  
  
$
49,259
  
  
$
45,572
  
  
$
47,374
  
  
$
281,037
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
7,329
  
  
$
4,891
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,251
  
  
$
13,471
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
93,890
  
  
 
36,131
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
27,637
  
  
 
157,658
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
8,642
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
975
  
  
 
9,617
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
158
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
45,065
  
  
 
2,865
  
  
 
48,088
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
110,019
  
  
$
41,022
  
  
$
45,065
  
  
$
32,728
  
  
$
228,834
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Maintenance revenue for the NextGen Division increased by $22.7 million for the year ended March 31, 2012 as
compared to the same prior year period. The growth in maintenance revenue is primarily a result of increases related to net additional licenses from new clients and existing clients as well as a price increase that became effective during the
quarter ended September 30, 2011.  The NextGen Division’s EDI revenue growth has come from new clients and from further
penetration of the division’s existing client base while the growth in RCM revenue has come from new clients that have been acquired from cross selling opportunities with the NextGen Division client base. We intend to continue to promote
maintenance, EDI and RCM services to both new and existing clients. Growth in other services revenue is primarily due to increases in third-party annual software licenses, follow on training services, consulting services and hosting services
revenue.  Cost of Revenue.    Cost of revenue for the year ended March 31, 2012 increased 18.6% to $151.2
million from $127.5 million in the same prior year period and the cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue decreased to 35.2% from 36.1% primarily due to a lower amount of hardware included in systems sales as compared to the same prior year
period as well as strong software sales achieved in the current year period. 
  51 


Table of Contents
The following table details revenue and cost of revenue on a consolidated and divisional basis for the
years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands):   




















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
%
 
 
2011
 
  
%
 

 QSI Dental Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
19,596
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
19,966
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
9,097
  
  
 
46.4
% 
 
 
9,034
  
  
 
45.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
10,499
  
  
 
53.6
% 
 
$
10,932
  
  
 
54.8
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 NextGen Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
325,467
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
266,546
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
93,723
  
  
 
28.8
% 
 
 
78,496
  
  
 
29.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
231,744
  
  
 
71.2
% 
 
$
188,050
  
  
 
70.6
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Hospital Solutions Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
34,463
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
17,898
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
10,540
  
  
 
30.6
% 
 
 
4,671
  
  
 
26.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
23,923
  
  
 
69.4
% 
 
$
13,227
  
  
 
73.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 RCM Services Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
50,309
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
48,953
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
35,559
  
  
 
70.7
% 
 
 
34,896
  
  
 
71.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
14,750
  
  
 
29.3
% 
 
$
14,057
  
  
 
28.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Unallocated cost of revenue(1)
  
$
2,303
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
$
385
  
  
 
N/A
  

 Consolidated
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
429,835
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
353,363
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
151,223
  
  
 
35.2
% 
 
 
127,482
  
  
 
36.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
278,612
  
  
 
64.8
% 
 
$
225,881
  
  
 
63.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Relates to the amortization of software technology intangible assets acquired from the purchase of ViaTrack, CQI, IntraNexus, Opus and Sphere 
Gross profit margins at the QSI Dental Division for the year ended March 31, 2012 decreased to 53.6% from 54.8% for the same prior year period
primarily as a result of lower software license revenue included in total revenue. Gross profit margins at the NextGen Division for year ended March 31, 2012 increased to 71.2% compared to 70.6% for the same prior year period due to strong
software sales and an increase in maintenance revenue, which yields higher margins than other services, along with improvements in EDI margins. Gross margin in the Hospital Solutions Division decreased to 69.4% for the year ended March 31, 2012
as compared to 73.9% for the same prior year period due to growth in implementation and training revenue which carries lower profit margins compared to software. Gross margin in the RCM Services Division increased to 29.3% for the year ended
March 31, 2012 as compared to 28.7% for the same prior year period due to growth in higher margin software revenue. 
  52 


Table of Contents
The following table details the individual components of cost of revenue and gross profit as a
percentage of total revenue on a consolidated and divisional basis for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011:   




























 
  
Hardware,Third PartySoftware
 
 
Payroll andRelatedBenefits
 
 
EDI
 
 
Other
 
 
Total Costof Revenue
 
 
GrossProfit
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012
  



 



 



 



 



 




 QSI Dental Division
  
 
7.1
% 
 
 
23.2
% 
 
 
7.9
% 
 
 
8.2
% 
 
 
46.4
% 
 
 
53.6
% 

 NextGen Division
  
 
1.3
% 
 
 
12.4
% 
 
 
7.8
% 
 
 
7.3
% 
 
 
28.8
% 
 
 
71.2
% 

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
3.2
% 
 
 
17.0
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
10.4
% 
 
 
30.6
% 
 
 
69.4
% 

 RCM Services Division
  
 
—
% 
 
 
46.1
% 
 
 
2.2
% 
 
 
22.4
% 
 
 
70.7
% 
 
 
29.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
 
1.6
% 
 
 
17.2
% 
 
 
6.5
% 
 
 
9.9
% 
 
 
35.2
% 
 
 
64.8
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



 



 



 



 



 




 QSI Dental Division
  
 
8.7
% 
 
 
17.7
% 
 
 
11.6
% 
 
 
7.2
% 
 
 
45.2
% 
 
 
54.8
% 

 NextGen Division
  
 
2.9
% 
 
 
11.8
% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
6.6
% 
 
 
29.4
% 
 
 
70.6
% 

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
5.4
% 
 
 
16.7
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
26.1
% 
 
 
73.9
% 

 RCM Services Division
  
 
—
% 
 
 
43.8
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
27.0
% 
 
 
71.3
% 
 
 
28.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
 
3.0
% 
 
 
16.8
% 
 
 
6.9
% 
 
 
9.4
% 
 
 
36.1
% 
 
 
63.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2012, hardware and third-party software constituted a lower portion of cost of
revenue compared to the same prior year period in the NextGen Division. The number of clients who purchase hardware and third-party software and the dollar amount of hardware and third-party software purchased fluctuates each quarter depending on
the needs of our clients.  Our payroll and benefits expense associated with delivering our products and services increased to 17.2% of
consolidated revenue in the year ended March 31, 2012 compared to 16.8% during the same period last year. The absolute level of consolidated payroll and benefit expenses grew from $59.3 million in the year ended March 31, 2011 to
$73.9 million in the year ended March 31, 2012, an increase of 24.5%, or approximately $14.6 million. Of the $14.6 million increase, approximately $1.8 million of the increase is related to the RCM Services Division as RCM is a service
business, which inherently has higher percentage of payroll costs as a percentage of revenue. Increases of $8.9 million in the NextGen Division, $2.9 million for the Hospital Solutions Division and $1.0 million in the QSI Dental Division for the
year ended March 31, 2012 are primarily due to headcount additions and increased payroll and benefits expense associated with delivering products and services. The amount of share-based compensation expense included in cost of revenue was $0.3
million for both the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.  Other expense, which primarily consists of third-party annual license,
hosting costs and outsourcing costs, increased to 9.9% of total revenue during the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to 9.4% for the same period a year ago.  As a result of the foregoing events and activities, our gross profit percentage increased to 64.8% for the year ended March 31, 2012 versus 63.9% for the same prior year period. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.    Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended
March 31, 2012 increased 19.0% to $128.8 million as compared to $108.3 million for the same prior year period. The increase in these expenses resulted primarily from: 
 


 
•
 
 $12.6 million increase in salaries and related benefit expenses primarily as a result of headcount additions and acquisitions; 
 


 
•
 
 $2.9 million increase in sales commissions primarily related to the NextGen Division; 
  53 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 $1.9 million increase in bad debt expense;   


 
•
 
 $3.1 million net increase in other selling and administrative expenses. 
Share-based compensation expense was approximately $2.9 million and $3.3 million for the year ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and
is included in the aforementioned amounts. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 30.7% in the year ended March 31, 2011 to 30.0% in the year ended March 31, 2012. 
Research and Development Costs.    Research and development costs for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 were
$31.4 million and $21.8 million, respectively. The increases in research and development expenses were due in part to increased investment in the NextGen and Hospital Solutions Division product lines. We have also invested significantly in
enhancements to our specialty template development, preparation for ICD10 requirements, new products including NextGen Mobile, NextGen NextPen, NextGen Community Connectivity consisting of NextGen Health Information Exchange (“NextGen
HIE,” formerly Community Health Solution), NextGen Patient Portal (“NextMD.com”), and NextGen Health Quality Measures (“NextGen HQM”), and other enhancements to our existing products. Additions to capitalized software costs
offset increases in research and development costs. For the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, our additions to capitalized software were at $13.1 million and $10.7 million, respectively, as we continue to enhance our software to meet the
Meaningful Use definitions under the ARRA as well as further integrate both ambulatory and inpatient products. Research and development costs as a percentage of revenue increased to 7.3% in the year ended March 31, 2012 from 6.2% for the same
prior year period. Research and development expenses are expected to continue at or above current dollar levels as we develop a new integrated inpatient and outpatient, web-based software platform. Share-based compensation expense included in
research and development costs was $0.2 million for both the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011.  Amortization of Acquired
Intangible Assets.    Amortization included in operating expense related to acquired intangible assets for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $2.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively. 
Interest and Other Income.    Total interest and other income for the year ended March 31, 2012 was $0.1 million as
compared to $0.3 million for the year ended March 31, 2011. Interest and other income consist primarily of dividends and interest earned on our investments offset by foreign currency losses. 
Our investment policy is determined by our Board of Directors. We currently maintain our cash in very liquid short term assets including tax exempt
and taxable money market funds and short-term U.S. Treasury securities with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our Board of Directors continues to review alternate uses for our cash including, but not limited to, payment of a
special dividend, initiation of a stock buyback program, an expansion of our investment policy to include investments with longer maturities of greater than 90 days, and other items. Additionally, it is possible that we will utilize some or all of
our cash to fund acquisitions or other similar business activities. Any or all of these programs could significantly impact our investment income in future periods.  Provision for Income Taxes.    The provision for income taxes for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 were $40.6 million and $32.8 million, respectively. The effective tax rates
were 35.0% and 34.8% for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The effective rate for the year ended March 31, 2012 increased slightly as compared to the prior year period primarily due to the qualified production
activities deduction and research and development credits and fluctuations in the state effective tax rate.  During both the year ended
March 31, 2012 and 2011, we recognized research and development tax credits of approximately $1.0 million. The Company also claimed the qualified production activities deduction under Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code
(“IRC”) of approximately $10.0 million and $8.1 million during the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Research and development credits and the qualified production activities income deduction calculated by us
involve certain assumptions and judgments regarding qualification of expenses under the relevant tax code provision. 
  54 


Table of Contents
Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2010 
Net Income.    The Company’s net income for the year ended March 31, 2011 was $61.6 million, or $1.06 per
share on both a basic and fully diluted basis. In comparison, we earned $48.4 million, or $0.84 per share on both a basic and fully diluted basis for the year ended March 31, 2010. The increase in net income for the year ended March 31,
2011 was primarily attributed to the following:   


 
•
 
 a 21.1% increase in consolidated revenue, including an increase in revenues of $37.8 million from our NextGen Division, $15.0 million from our Hospital
Solutions Division and $5.9 million from our RCM Services Division;   


 
•
 
 a 16.5% increase in NextGen Division revenue, which accounted for 75.4% of consolidated revenue; 
 


 
•
 
 an increase of recurring revenue, including RCM, maintenance and EDI revenue, which accounted for 55.5% of total consolidated revenue;
  


 
•
 
 offset by an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses and research and development costs. 
Revenue.    Revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011 increased 21.1% to $353.4 million from $291.8 million for
the year ended March 31, 2010. NextGen Division revenue increased 16.5% to $266.5 million from $228.7 million in the year ended March 31, 2010 while QSI Dental Division revenue increased 16.6% to $20.0 million from
$17.1 million and RCM Services Division revenue increased 13.7% during that same period to $49.0 million from $43.1 million.  System Sales.    Revenue earned from Company-wide sales of systems for the year ended March 31, 2011 increased 19.6% to $124.5 million from $104.1 million in the prior year
period.  Our increase in revenue from sales of systems was principally the result of a 12.6% increase in category revenue at our NextGen
Division, whose sales in this category grew to $108.9 million during the year ended March 31, 2011 from $96.7 million during the same prior year period. This increase was driven by higher sales of software to both new and existing
clients, as well as increases in hardware and third-party software and implementation and training services revenue.  The following table
breaks down our reported system sales into software, hardware, third-party software, supplies and implementation and training services components on a consolidated and divisional basis for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):
  




















  
  
Software
 
  
Hardware, ThirdParty
Softwareand Supplies
 
  
Implementationand TrainingServices
 
  
Total SystemSales
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
3,239
  
  
$
2,190
  
  
$
1,066
  
  
$
6,495
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
84,812
  
  
 
8,979
  
  
 
15,097
  
  
 
108,888
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
6,187
  
  
 
612
  
  
 
1,482
  
  
 
8,281
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
473
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
370
  
  
 
865
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
94,711
  
  
$
11,803
  
  
$
18,015
  
  
$
124,529
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010
  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
1,699
  
  
$
1,409
  
  
$
825
  
  
$
3,933
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
78,703
  
  
 
4,931
  
  
 
13,058
  
  
 
96,692
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
1,129
  
  
 
13
  
  
 
226
  
  
 
1,368
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
1,877
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
267
  
  
 
2,144
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
83,408
  
  
$
6,353
  
  
$
14,376
  
  
$
104,137
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  55 


Table of Contents
NextGen Division software license revenue increased 7.8% in the year ended
March 31, 2011 versus the same period last year. The Division’s software revenue accounted for 77.9% of divisional system sales revenue during the year ended March 31, 2011, compared to 81.4% during the same period a year ago. The
September 2010 announcement that NextGenehr became CCHIT® certified along with the finalization of the Stage 1 Meaningful Use definition criteria under the ARRA in July 2010
positively impacted the growth in software license revenue during the year ended March 31, 2011. Software license revenue continues to be an area of primary emphasis for the NextGen Division. 
During the year ended March 31, 2011, 8.2% of the NextGen Division’s system sales revenue was represented by hardware and third-party
software compared to 5.1% during same period a year ago. The number of clients who purchase hardware and third-party software and the dollar amount of hardware and third-party software revenue fluctuates each quarter depending on the needs of
clients. The inclusion of hardware and third-party software in the Division’s sales arrangements is typically at the request of our clients.  Implementation and training revenue related to system sales at the NextGen Division increased 15.6% in the year ended March 31, 2011 compared to the prior year period. The amount of implementation and training
services revenue is dependent on several factors, including timing of client implementations, the availability of qualified staff and the mix of services being rendered. The number of implementation and training staff increased during the year ended
March 31, 2011 versus the same prior year period in order to accommodate the increased amount of implementation services sold in conjunction with increased software sales. In order to achieve growth in this area, additional staffing increases
and additional training facilities are anticipated, though actual future increases in revenue and staff will depend upon the availability of qualified staff, business mix and conditions and our ability to retain current staff members. 
For the QSI Dental Division, total system sales increased $2.6 million, or 65.1%, to $6.5 million in the year ended March 31, 2011 as
compared to $3.9 million in the prior year period. Systems sales in the QSI Dental Division were positively impacted by greater joint sales of dental and medical software to FQHCs. In addition, the Division began selling the SaaS based
NextDDS™ product during fiscal year 2010.  For the RCM Services Division, total system sales decreased by 59.7% in the year ended
March 31, 2011 as compared to the prior year period. Systems sales revenue within the Practice Solutions Division is composed of sales to existing RCM clients only and can fluctuate given the size of the current client base of the Practice
Solutions Division.  For the Hospital Solutions Division, total systems sales increased $6.9 million because only two months of
revenue was recorded in the year ended March 31, 2010 for Opus, which was acquired in February 2010, as compared to a full year of revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011. 
Maintenance, EDI, RCM and Other Services.    For the year ended March 31, 2011, Company-wide revenue from
maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services grew 21.9% to $228.8 million from $187.7 million in the prior year period. The increase is primarily due to an increase in maintenance, EDI and other services revenue from the NextGen Division and
RCM revenue from the RCM Services Division.  Total NextGen Division maintenance revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011 grew 16.7%
to $93.9 million from $80.5 million for the same prior year period while NextGen Division EDI revenue grew 20.4% to $36.1 million compared to $30.0 million in the prior year period. Other services revenue for the NextGen Division,
which consists primarily of third-party annual software license renewals, follow-on training hours and hosting services, increased 28.0% to $27.6 million in the year ended March 31, 2011 from $21.6 million in the same prior year
period. QSI Dental Division maintenance, EDI and other revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011 increased $0.3 million to $13.5 million compared to $13.2 million for the same prior year period. For the year ended March 31,
2011, RCM revenue grew $8.4 million to $45.1 million compared to $36.7 million in the prior year period primarily as a result of increases in RCM revenue to new and existing clients. 
  56 


Table of Contents
The following table details maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services revenue by category on a
consolidated and divisional basis for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):   
























 
  
Maintenance
 
  
EDI
 
  
RCM
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
7,329
  
  
$
4,891
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
1,251
  
  
$
13,471
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
93,890
  
  
 
36,131
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
27,637
  
  
 
157,658
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
8,642
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
975
  
  
 
9,617
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
158
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
45,065
  
  
 
2,865
  
  
 
48,088
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
110,019
  
  
$
41,022
  
  
$
45,065
  
  
$
32,728
  
  
$
228,834
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
7,217
  
  
$
5,038
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
940
  
  
$
13,195
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
80,451
  
  
 
29,997
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
21,589
  
  
 
132,037
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
1,416
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
108
  
  
 
1,524
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
108
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
36,665
  
  
 
4,145
  
  
 
40,918
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
$
89,192
  
  
$
35,035
  
  
$
36,665
  
  
$
26,782
  
  
$
187,674
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Maintenance revenue for the NextGen Division increased by $13.4 million for the year ended March 31, 2011
as compared to the same prior year period. The growth in maintenance revenue is a result of an $11.5 million increase in net additional licenses from new clients and existing clients and approximately $1.9 million related to a recent price
increase that became effective during the quarter ended September 30, 2010.  The NextGen Division’s EDI revenue growth has come
from new clients and from further penetration of the Division’s existing client base while the growth in RCM revenue has come from new clients that have been acquired from cross selling opportunities with the NextGen Division client base. We
intend to continue to promote maintenance, EDI and RCM services to both new and existing clients. Growth in other services revenue is primarily due to increases in third-party annual software licenses, consulting services and hosting services
revenue.  For the Hospital Solutions Division, maintenance revenue increased $7.2 million because only two months of revenue was
recorded in the year ended March 31, 2010 for Opus, which was acquired in February 2010, as compared to a full year of revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011.  Cost of Revenue.    Cost of revenue for the year ended March 31, 2011 increased 15.0% to $127.5 million from $110.8 million in the prior year period and the cost of revenue as a
percentage of revenue decreased to 36.1% from 38.0% due to the fact that the rate of growth in cost of revenue grew slower than the aggregate revenue growth rate for the Company. 
  57 


Table of Contents
The following table details revenue and cost of revenue on a consolidated and divisional basis for the
years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands):   




















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
%
 
 
2010
 
  
%
 

 QSI Dental Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
19,966
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
17,128
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
9,034
  
  
 
45.2
% 
 
 
7,788
  
  
 
45.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
10,932
  
  
 
54.8
% 
 
$
9,340
  
  
 
54.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 NextGen Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
266,546
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
228,730
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
78,496
  
  
 
29.4
% 
 
 
73,122
  
  
 
32.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
188,050
  
  
 
70.6
% 
 
$
155,608
  
  
 
68.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Hospital Solutions Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
17,898
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,891
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
4,671
  
  
 
26.1
% 
 
 
412
  
  
 
14.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
13,227
  
  
 
73.9
% 
 
$
2,479
  
  
 
85.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 RCM Services Division
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
48,953
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
43,062
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
34,896
  
  
 
71.3
% 
 
 
29,485
  
  
 
68.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
14,057
  
  
 
28.7
% 
 
$
13,577
  
  
 
31.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Unallocated cost of revenue(1)
  
$
385
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
N/A
  

 Consolidated
  



  



  




 Revenue
  
$
353,363
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
291,811
  
  
 
100.0
% 

 Cost of revenue
  
 
127,482
  
  
 
36.1
% 
 
 
110,807
  
  
 
38.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
$
225,881
  
  
 
63.9
% 
 
$
181,004
  
  
 
62.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Relates to the amortization of software technology intangible assets acquired from the purchases of Sphere and Opus. 
Gross profit margins at the QSI Dental Division for the year ended March 31, 2011 increased slightly to 54.8% from 54.5% for the prior year
period. Gross profit margins at the NextGen Division for year ended March 31, 2011 increased to 70.6% compared to 68.0% for the prior year period due to strong software sales and an increase in maintenance revenue, which yields higher margins
than other services, along with improvements in EDI margins. Gross margin in the RCM Services Division decreased to 28.7% for the year ended March 31, 2011 as compared to 31.5% for the prior year period because of higher outsourcing costs in
connection with delivering RCM services in the year ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period a year ago. 
  58 


Table of Contents
The following table details the individual components of cost of revenue and gross profit as a
percentage of total revenue on a consolidated and divisional basis for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010:   




























 
  
Hardware,Third PartySoftware
 
 
Payroll andRelatedBenefits
 
 
EDI
 
 
Other
 
 
TotalCostof Revenue
 
 
GrossProfit
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



 



 



 



 



 




 QSI Dental Division
  
 
8.7
% 
 
 
17.7
% 
 
 
11.6
% 
 
 
7.2
% 
 
 
45.2
% 
 
 
54.8
% 

 NextGen Division
  
 
2.9
% 
 
 
11.8
% 
 
 
8.1
% 
 
 
6.6
% 
 
 
29.4
% 
 
 
70.6
% 

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
5.4
% 
 
 
16.7
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
4.0
% 
 
 
26.1
% 
 
 
73.9
% 

 RCM Services Division
  
 
—
% 
 
 
43.8
% 
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
27.0
% 
 
 
71.3
% 
 
 
28.7
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
 
3.0
% 
 
 
16.8
% 
 
 
6.9
% 
 
 
9.4
% 
 
 
36.1
% 
 
 
63.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010
  



 



 



 



 



 




 QSI Dental Division
  
 
8.5
% 
 
 
13.8
% 
 
 
16.0
% 
 
 
7.2
% 
 
 
45.5
% 
 
 
54.5
% 

 NextGen Division
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
13.4
% 
 
 
9.6
% 
 
 
6.5
% 
 
 
32.0
% 
 
 
68.0
% 

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
3.1
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
—
% 
 
 
11.2
% 
 
 
14.3
% 
 
 
85.7
% 

 RCM Services Division
  
 
0.5
% 
 
 
43.6
% 
 
 
1.1
% 
 
 
23.3
% 
 
 
68.5
% 
 
 
31.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
17.7
% 
 
 
8.7
% 
 
 
9.1
% 
 
 
38.0
% 
 
 
62.0
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 During the year ended March 31, 2011, hardware and third-party software constituted a higher portion of cost of
revenue compared to the prior year period in the NextGen Division. The number of clients who purchase hardware and third-party software and the dollar amount of hardware and third-party software purchased fluctuates each quarter depending on the
needs of our clients.  Our payroll and benefits expense associated with delivering our products and services decreased to 16.8% of
consolidated revenue in the year ended March 31, 2011 compared to 17.7% during the same period last year. The absolute level of consolidated payroll and benefit expenses grew from $51.8 million in the year ended March 31, 2010 to
$59.3 million in the year ended March 31, 2011, an increase of 14.7%, or approximately $7.5 million. Of the $7.5 million increase, approximately $2.7 million of the increase is related to the RCM Services Division because
RCM is a service business, which inherently has higher percentage of payroll costs as a percentage of revenue. Increases of $1.2 million in the QSI Dental Division and $0.7 million in the NextGen Division for the year ended March 31,
2011 are primarily due to headcount additions and increased headcount and payroll and benefits expense associated with delivering products and services. For the Hospital Solutions Division, payroll and benefits expense associated with delivering our
products and services increased $2.9 million because fiscal year 2010 included only two months of payroll and benefits expenses for Opus, which was acquired in February 2010, as compared to a full year of expenses for the year ended
March 31, 2011. The amount of share-based compensation expense included in cost of revenue was $0.3 million and $0.1 million for years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Other expense, which primarily consists of third-party annual license, hosting costs and outsourcing costs, increased to 9.4% of total revenue
during the year ended March 31, 2011 as compared to 9.1% for the same period a year ago. Contributing to this increase was higher outsources costs in delivering RCM services offset by better profit margins achieved in our hosting and annual
licenses revenues that are included in other services.  As a result of the foregoing events and activities, the gross profit percentage
for the Company increased to 63.9% for the year ended March 31, 2011 versus 62.0% for the prior year period.  We anticipate
continued additions to headcount in all of our Divisions in areas related to delivering products and services in future periods, but due to the uncertainties in the timing of our sales arrangements, our sales mix, the acquisition and training of
qualified personnel and other issues, we 
  59 


Table of Contents

cannot accurately predict if related headcount expense as a percentage of revenue will increase or decrease in the future.  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.    Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended March 31, 2011 increased 24.6% to $108.3 million as compared to
$87.0 million for the prior year period. The increase in these expenses resulted primarily from:   


 
•
 
 $18.7 million increase in salaries and related benefit expenses primarily as a result of headcount additions; 
 


 
•
 
 $4.6 million increase due to a full year of selling and administrative expenses from Opus, which was acquired in February 2010;
  


 
•
 
 $3.2 million increase in sales commissions primarily related to the NextGen Division; 
 


 
•
 
 $1.4 million increase primarily due to fair value adjustments to the contingent consideration liability related to the acquisitions of Opus and Sphere;
offset by   


 
•
 
 $1.6 million decrease in legal and outside services expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 $2.1 million net decrease in advertising, tradeshows and travel related expenses; and 
 


 
•
 
 $2.8 million net decrease in other selling and administrative expenses. 
Share-based compensation expense was approximately $3.3 million and $1.9 million for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively, and is included in the aforementioned amounts. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue increased from 29.8% in the year ended March 31, 2010 to 30.7% in the year ended March 31, 2011.
 We do not anticipate significant increases in expenditures for trade shows, advertising and the employment of additional sales and
administrative staff at the NextGen Division until additional revenue growth is achieved. We anticipate future increases in corporate expenditures being made in a wide range of areas including professional services and investment in a companywide
enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system. While we expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase on an absolute basis, we cannot accurately predict the impact these additional expenditures will have on selling, general
and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue.  Research and Development Costs.    Research and
development costs for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 were $21.8 million and $16.5 million, respectively. The increases in research and development expenses were due in part to increased investment in the NextGen Division
product line. The Opus acquisition added $1.4 million in research and development expenses during the year ended March 31, 2011. Additions to capitalized software costs offset increases in research and development costs. For the year ended
March 31, 2011, our additions to capitalized software increased to $10.7 million compared to $7.9 million capitalized during the same prior year period as we continue to enhance our software to meet the Meaningful Use definitions
under the ARRA. Research and development costs as a percentage of revenue increased to 6.2% in the year ended March 31, 2011 from 5.7% for the same prior year period. Research and development expenses are expected to continue at or above
current dollar levels as the Company is developing a new integrated inpatient and outpatient, web-based software platform. Share-based compensation expense included in research and development costs, net of amounts capitalized as software
development, was $0.2 million and $0.1 million for years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Amortization of
Acquired Intangible Assets.    Amortization included in operating expense related to acquired intangible assets for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.7 million and $1.8 million, respectively.
 Interest and Other Income.    Total interest and other income for the years ended March 31, 2011 and
2010 were $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Interest and other income consist primarily of dividends and interest earned on our investments. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Our investment policy is determined by our Board of Directors. We currently maintain our cash in very
liquid short term assets including tax exempt and taxable money market funds and short-term U.S. Treasury securities with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. Our Board of Directors continues to review alternate uses for our
cash including, but not limited to, payment of a special dividend, initiation of a stock buyback program, an expansion of our investment policy to include investments with longer maturities of greater than 90 days, and other items.
Additionally, it is possible that we will utilize some or all of our cash to fund acquisitions or other similar business activities. Any or all of these programs could significantly impact our investment income in future periods. 
Provision for Income Taxes.    The provision for income taxes for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 were
$32.8 million and $27.8 million, respectively. The effective tax rates were 34.8% and 36.5% for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The effective rate for the year ended March 31, 2011 decreased as compared to
the prior year period primarily due to increased benefits from the qualified production activities deduction and research and development credits and fluctuations in the state effective tax rate. 
During the year ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we recognized research and development tax credits of approximately $1.0 million and
$0.7 million, respectively. The Company also claimed the qualified production activities deduction under Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) of approximately $8.1 million and $4.1 million during the years
ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Research and development credits and the qualified production activities income deduction calculated by us involve certain assumptions and judgments regarding qualification of expenses under the
relevant tax code provision.  Liquidity and Capital Resources  The following table presents selected financial statistics and information for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
134,444
  
  
$
116,617
  
  
$
84,611
  

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
17,827
  
  
$
32,006
  
  
$
14,431
  

 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
  
$
61,606
  
  
$
48,379
  

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
76,786
  
  
$
70,064
  
  
$
55,220
  

 Number of days of sales outstanding
  
 
122
  
  
 
131
  
  
 
125
  
 Cash Flows from Operating Activities  Cash provided by operations has historically been our primary source of cash and has primarily been driven by our net income plus adjustments to add back non-cash expenses, including depreciation, amortization of
intangibles and capitalized software costs, provisions for bad debts and inventory obsolescence, share-based compensation and deferred taxes.  The following table summarizes our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands): 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
 
$
61,606
  
 
$
48,379
  

 Non-cash expenses
  
 
19,077
  
 
 
17,978
  
 
 
16,152
  

 Change in deferred revenue
  
 
5,993
  
 
 
13,211
  
 
 
12,528
  

 Change in accounts receivable
  
 
(10,389
) 
 
 
(36,094
) 
 
 
(18,944
) 

 Change in other assets and liabilities
  
 
(13,552
) 
 
 
13,363
  
 
 
(2,895
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
$
76,786
  
 
$
70,064
  
 
$
55,220
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  61 


Table of Contents
Net Income.    As referenced in the above table, net income makes up the
majority of our cash generated from operations for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  Non-Cash
Expenses.    Non-cash expenses include depreciation, amortization of intangibles and capitalized software costs, provisions for bad debts, share-based compensation and deferred taxes. Total non-cash expenses were $19.1
million, $18.0 million and $16.2 million for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The $1.1 million increase
in non-cash expenses for the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same prior year period is related to increases of approximately $0.9 million in depreciation, $1.2 million of amortization of capitalized software costs, $1.9
million of bad debt expense, $1.2 million of amortization of other intangibles, and a $0.1 million loss on disposal of fixed assets, offset by a $0.4 million decrease in share-based compensation and a $3.8 million increase in deferred income tax
benefit.  The $1.8 million increase in non-cash expenses for the year ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the prior year period
is primarily related to increases of approximately $0.6 million in depreciation, $1.2 million of amortization of capitalized software costs, $1.5 million of amortization of other intangibles, $0.3 million in bad debt expense and
$1.7 million in share-based compensation, offset by a $3.4 million increase in deferred income tax benefit.  Deferred
Revenue.    Cash from operations benefited from increases in deferred revenue primarily due to an increase in the volume of implementation and maintenance services invoiced by the NextGen Division which had not yet been
rendered or recognized as revenue. Deferred revenue increased by approximately $6.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2012 versus an increase of $13.2 million and $12.5 million in the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively,
resulting in increases to cash from operations as compared to the prior year periods. During the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Company modified its standard payment terms for implementation services sold in conjunction with software to
separate license fee payments from services and to bill for services as services are incurred. This change results in implementation service fees not being recorded as both accounts receivable and deferred revenue upon the execution of a contract.
In future periods, deferred implementation and training revenue is not expected to increase as fast as prior periods due to this change in standard payment terms.  Accounts Receivable.    Accounts receivable grew by approximately $10.4 million, $36.1 million and $18.9 million for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
increase in accounts receivable is due to the following factors:   


 
•
 
 NextGen Division revenue grew 22.1%, 16.5% and 12.2% for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively; 
 


 
•
 
 Hospital Solutions Division revenue grew to $34.5 million and $17.9 million for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as compared to $2.9
million for the year ended March 31, 2010 primarily because only two months of revenue was recorded for Opus, which was acquired in February 2010; 
 


 
•
 
 Turnover of accounts receivable is generally slower for systems sales revenue in the NextGen Division and Hospital Solutions Division due to the fact that the
systems sales related revenue have longer payment terms, generally up to one year, which historically have accounted for a major portion of both divisions’ sales; 
 


 
•
 
 Accounts receivable growth is expected to be slowed by a smaller amount of services sold in advance of being rendered. This is a result of the Company modifying
its standard payment terms for implementation services sold in conjunction with software to separate license fee payments from services and instead billing for services as services are incurred. This change results in implementation service fees not
being recorded as both accounts receivable and deferred revenue upon the execution of a contract; and 
  62 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 The turnover of accounts receivable measured in terms of days sales outstanding (“DSO”) decreased from 131 days to 122 days during the year
ended March 31, 2012 as compared the prior year period. The decrease in DSO is primarily due to the factors mentioned.  If amounts included in both accounts receivable and deferred revenue were netted, the turnover of accounts receivable expressed as DSO would be 77 days as of March 31, 2012 and 79 days as of
March 31, 2011. Provided turnover of accounts receivable, deferred revenue and profitability remain consistent with the 2012 fiscal year, we anticipate being able to continue generating cash from operations during fiscal year 2013 primarily
from our net income.  Other Assets and Liabilities.    The $27.0 million net decrease in other assets and
liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same prior year period is primarily related to the $12.7 million earnout settlement paid to Opus and a $12.6 million increase in net income taxes receivable. 
For the year ended March 31, 2011, the $13.4 million change in other assets and liabilities consists of a total increase in other
liabilities of $14.9 million, offset by a decrease in other assets of $1.5 million. The $14.9 million increase in other liabilities consisted of a $1.1 million increase in contingent consideration related to the Opus and Sphere
acquisitions, $3.3 million increase in accounts payable and $10.5 million increase in all other liabilities.  Cash Flows from Investing
Activities  Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $34.9 million, $10.6
million and $13.9 million, respectively. The increase in net cash used in investing activities during the year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same prior year period is primarily due to net cash paid for the acquisitions of IntraNexus,
CQI, and ViaTrack of $3.3 million, $2.5 million, and $5.7 million, respectively, in addition to increases of $2.4 million and $3.5 million, respectively, for capitalized software and equipment and improvements. 
During the year ended March 31, 2011, $17.2 million of cash was used for net additions of equipment and improvements and capitalized software
and $1.1 million for the purchase of marketable securities, offset by proceeds of $7.7 million received from the sale of our ARS investments.  During the year ended March 31, 2010, $12.9 million of cash was used for net additions of equipment and improvements and capitalized software, $3.0 million was paid for contingent consideration
related to the acquisition of PMP and $0.6 million was paid for the acquisition of Opus and Sphere. Net cash used for the year ended March 31, 2010 was offset by $2.0 million cash acquired from the purchase of Opus and
$0.4 million proceeds from the sale of marketable securities.  Cash Flows from Financing Activities 
Net cash used in financing activities for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $24.1 million, $27.5 million and $26.8 million,
respectively. During the year ended March 31, 2012, we received proceeds of $12.8 million from the exercise of stock options and paid $41.0 million in dividends to shareholders compared to proceeds of $5.7 million from the exercise of stock
options and payment of $34.7 million in dividends to shareholders during the year ended March 31, 2011 and proceeds of $5.9 million from the exercise of stock options and payment of $34.3 million in dividends to shareholders during the year
ended March 31, 2010.  We recorded a reduction in our tax benefit from share-based compensation of $4.1 million, $1.5 million
and $1.6 million during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to excess tax deductions received from stock option exercises. The benefit was recorded as additional paid in capital. 
  63 


Table of Contents
Cash and Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities 
At March 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $134.4 million. We may use a portion of these funds towards future acquisitions although
the timing and amount of funds to be used has not been determined. We intend to expend some of these funds for the development of products complementary to our existing product line as well as new versions of certain of our products. These
developments are intended to take advantage of more powerful technologies and to increase the integration of our products. We also intend to expend some of these funds related to the implementation of the ERP system. We believe the ERP will greatly
enhance and streamline our operational processes and provide a common technology platform to support future growth opportunities. We anticipate capital expenditures will increase in fiscal year 2013 and will be funded from cash on hand and cash
flows from operations.  In January 2007, our Board of Directors adopted a policy whereby we intend to pay a regular quarterly dividend of
$0.125 per share on our outstanding common stock, subject to further review and approval and the establishment of record and distribution dates by our Board of Directors prior to the declaration of each such quarterly dividend. Our Board of
Directors subsequently increased the quarterly dividend to $0.150 per share in August 2008 and to $0.175 per share in January 2011. We anticipate that future quarterly dividends, if and when declared by our Board of Directors pursuant to this
policy, would likely be distributable on or about the fifth day of each of the months of October, January, April and July.  On
May 24, 2012, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.175 per share on our outstanding shares of common stock, payable to shareholders of record as of June 15, 2012 with an expected distribution date on or about
July 3, 2012.  Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the periods presented (stock split adjusted):
  












 Declaration Date
  
 Record Date
  
 Payment Date
  
 Per Share
Dividend
 

 May 25, 2011
  
June 17, 2011
  
July 5, 2011
  
$
0.175
  

 July 27, 2011
  
September 19, 2011
  
October 5, 2011
  
 
0.175
  

 October 26, 2011
  
December 20, 2011
  
January 5, 2012
  
 
0.175
  

 January 25, 2012
  
March 20, 2012
  
April 5, 2012
  
 
0.175
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 Fiscal year 2012
  

  

  
$
0.700
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 May 26, 2010
  
June 17, 2010
  
July 6, 2010
  
$
0.150
  

 July 28, 2010
  
September 17, 2010
  
October 5, 2010
  
 
0.150
  

 October 25, 2010
  
December 17, 2010
  
January 5, 2011
  
 
0.150
  

 January 26, 2011
  
March 17, 2011
  
April 5, 2011
  
 
0.175
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 Fiscal year 2011
  

  

  
$
0.625
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 May 27, 2009
  
June 12, 2009
  
July 6, 2009
  
$
0.150
  

 July 23, 2009
  
September 25, 2009
  
October 5, 2009
  
 
0.150
  

 October 28, 2009
  
December 23, 2009
  
January 5, 2010
  
 
0.150
  

 January 27, 2010
  
March 23, 2010
  
April 5, 2010
  
 
0.150
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

 Fiscal year 2010
  

  

  
$
0.600
  


  

  

  
  
  
 

  64 


Table of Contents
Management believes that its cash and cash equivalents on hand at March 31, 2012, together with
its marketable securities and cash flows from operations, if any, will be sufficient to meet its working capital and capital expenditure requirements as well as any dividends to be paid in the ordinary course of business for fiscal year 2013.
 Contractual Obligations 
The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations, all of which relate to operating leases, at March 31, 2012 and the
effect that such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash in future periods:   








 For the year ended March 31,
  
 
 

 2013
  
$
6,640
  

 2014
  
 
6,227
  

 2015
  
 
5,504
  

 2016
  
 
4,814
  

 2017 and beyond
  
 
1,855
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
25,040
  


  
  
  
 
 New Accounting Pronouncements  Refer to Note 2, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” of our notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for a discussion of new accounting standards. 
 


ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE
AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS  We currently maintain our cash in very liquid short term assets including tax exempt and taxable money market funds and short-term U.S. Treasury securities with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of
purchase.   


ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  See our consolidated financial statements identified in the Index to Financial Statements appearing under “Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules” of this Report. 
 


ITEM 9.    CHANGES
IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None.   


ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES  Evaluation of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures  Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (our principal executive officer and principal
financial officer, respectively) have concluded, based on their evaluation as of March 31, 2012, that the design and operation of our “disclosure controls and procedures” (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) are effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports filed or submitted by us under the Security Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission’s rules and forms, including to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding whether or not disclosure is required. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Exchange Act. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
Our internal control over financial reporting is supported by written policies and procedures, that: 
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of our assets;  (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of our company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and 
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Management of the Company has assessed the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012 in making our assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management used the criteria set forth in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2012. 
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012 has been audited by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report contained in Item 15 of Part IV of this Report, “Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.” 
Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  During the quarter ended March 31, 2012, there were no changes in our “internal control over financial reporting” (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   


ITEM 9B.    OTHER
INFORMATION  None. 
PART III   


ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  The information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC. 
  66 


Table of Contents


ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION  The information
required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC. 
 


ITEM 12.    SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
The information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC.   


ITEM 13.    CERTAIN
RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC. 
 


ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL
ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference from our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 Annual
Shareholders’ Meeting to be filed with the SEC. 
  67 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   








 
  
Page
 

 (1) Index to Financial Statements:
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
73
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2012 and 2011
  
 
74
  

 Consolidated Statements of Income — Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
  
 
75
  

 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity — Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010
  
 
76
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
  
 
77
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
79
  

 (2) The following supplementary financial statement schedule of Quality Systems, Inc., required to be included in Item 15(a)(2)
on Form 10-K is filed as part of this Report.
  




 Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 
109
  

 Schedules other than that listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, or because the information
required is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.
  







 (3) The exhibits listed in the Index to Exhibits hereof are attached hereto or incorporated herein by reference and filed as a part of
this Report.
  




 Index to Exhibits
  
 
110
  

  68 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
 






 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description

3.1
  
Restated Articles of Incorporation of Quality Systems, Inc. filed with the Secretary of State of California on September 8, 1989, are hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1
to the registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration No. 333-00161) filed January 11, 1996.

3.2
  
Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of Quality Systems, Inc. filed with the Secretary of State of California effective March 4, 2005, is hereby incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1.1 of the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2005.

3.3
  
Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of Quality Systems, Inc. filed with the Secretary of State of California effective October 6, 2005 is hereby incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.01 of the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 11, 2005.

3.4
  
Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of Quality Systems, Inc. filed with the Secretary of State of California effective March 3, 2006 is hereby incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 3.1 of the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 6, 2006.

3.5
  
Certificate of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation of Quality Systems, Inc. filed with the Secretary of State of California effective October 6, 2011 is hereby incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the regsitrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 6, 2011.

3.6
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Quality Systems, Inc., effective October 30, 2008, are hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the registrant’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed October 31, 2008.

10.1*
  
Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Option Plan is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10.1 of the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
March 31, 2005.

10.2*
  
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Option Plan is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004.

10.3*
  
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Amended and Restated 1998 Stock Option Plan is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the registrant’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10Q for the quarter ended September 20, 2004.

10.4*
  
2005 Stock Option and Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.01 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 11, 2005.

10.5*
  
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for 2005 Stock Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
June 5, 2007.

10.6*
  
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for 2005 Stock Incentive Plan is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed
June 5, 2007.

10.7*
  
1993 Deferred Compensation Plan is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended March 31,
1994.

10.8*
  
Form of Second Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement for directors and executive officers is hereby incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the registrant’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2010.
  69 


Table of Contents






   ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.9*
 
Separation Agreement and General Release of All Claims between the Company and Patrick Cline is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for quarter ended September 30, 2011.

10.10*
 
2012 Director Compensation Program is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 1, 2011.

10.11*
 
Form of Outside Director’s Restricted Stock Unit Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 15,
2011.

10.12*
 
Description of 2012 Compensation Program for Named Executive Officers for Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012 is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 1, 2011.

10.13*
 
Employment Agreement dated August 11, 2008 between Quality Systems, Inc., and Steven Plochocki, is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the registrant’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on August 12, 2008.

10.14*
 
Outside Directors Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 2,
2010.

21**
 
List of subsidiaries.

23.1**
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

31.1**
 
Certification of Principal Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.

31.2**
 
Certification of Principal Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.

32.1**
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.

101.INS***
 
XBRL Instance

101.SCH***
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema

101.CAL***
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation

101.DEF***
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

101.LAB***
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label

101.PRE***
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
  


*
This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement. 


**
Filed herewith. 


***
XBRL information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of section 11 or 12 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1933, as
amended, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these section. 
  70 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   









By:
 
/s/    Steven T. Plochocki


 
 Steven T. Plochocki


 
 Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
Officer)




By:
 
/s/    Paul A. Holt


 
Paul A. Holt


 
 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Accounting
Officer)
 Date: May 25, 2012  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the persons whose signature appears below hereby constitutes and appoints Steven T. Plochocki and Paul A. Holt, each of them acting individually, as his
attorney-in-fact, each with the full power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises as
fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by our said attorney-in-fact and any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Pursuant to the requirement of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed by the following persons on our behalf in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    Sheldon Razin Sheldon Razin
  
Chairman of the Board and Director
 
May 25, 2012





 /s/    Steven T. Plochocki Steven T. Plochocki
  
 Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) and Director
 
May 25, 2012





 /s/    Paul A. Holt Paul A. Holt
  
 Chief Financial Officer (Principal Accounting Officer) and Executive Vice President
 
May 25, 2012





 /s/    Craig Barbarosh Craig Barbarosh
  
Director
 
May 25, 2012





   Murray
Brennan
  
Director
 

  71 


Table of Contents








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    George Bristol George Bristol
  
Director
 
May 25, 2012





   Ahmed Hussein
  
Director
 






 /s/    Russell Pflueger Russell Pflueger
  
Director
 
May 25, 2012





 /s/    Maureen Spivack Maureen Spivack
  
Director
 
May 25, 2012





   Lance
Rosenzweig
  
Director
 


  72 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Quality Systems, Inc.  In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, statements of shareholders’ equity and statements of cash flow present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Quality Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2012 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2), presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, the financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 /s/    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  Orange County, California  May 25, 2012 
  73 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
March 31, 2012
 
  
March 31, 2011
 

 
  
(In thousands, exceptper share data)
 

ASSETS
  

 Current assets:
  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
134,444
  
  
$
116,617
  

 Restricted cash (Note 1)
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
3,787
  

 Marketable securities
  
 
4,987
  
  
 
1,120
  

 Accounts receivable, net (Note 9)
  
 
145,756
  
  
 
139,772
  

 Inventories
  
 
3,715
  
  
 
1,933
  

 Income taxes receivable
  
 
2,628
  
  
 
—
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
10,127
  
  
 
10,397
  

 Other current assets
  
 
9,090
  
  
 
8,768
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
312,709
  
  
 
282,394
  

 Equipment and improvements, net
  
 
17,841
  
  
 
12,599
  

 Capitalized software costs, net
  
 
19,994
  
  
 
15,150
  

 Intangibles, net
  
 
23,259
  
  
 
16,890
  

 Goodwill
  
 
60,776
  
  
 
46,721
  

 Other assets
  
 
5,773
  
  
 
4,932
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
440,352
  
  
$
378,686
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  

 Current liabilities:
  



  




 Accounts payable
  
$
4,532
  
  
$
6,686
  

 Deferred revenue
  
 
83,108
  
  
 
76,695
  

 Accrued compensation and related benefits
  
 
11,870
  
  
 
10,247
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,530
  

 Dividends payable
  
 
10,354
  
  
 
10,162
  

 Other current liabilities
  
 
19,568
  
  
 
29,316
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
129,432
  
  
 
136,636
  

 Deferred revenue, net of current
  
 
1,293
  
  
 
1,099
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
5,351
  
  
 
11,384
  

 Deferred compensation
  
 
3,497
  
  
 
2,488
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
5,602
  
  
 
2,409
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
145,175
  
  
 
154,016
  

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 13)
  



  




 Shareholders’ equity:
  



  




 Common stock
  



  




 $0.01 par value; authorized 100,000 shares; issued and outstanding 59,180 and 58,068 shares at March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011,
respectively
  
 
592
  
  
 
580
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
168,988
  
  
 
132,969
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
125,597
  
  
 
91,121
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
295,177
  
  
 
224,670
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
440,352
  
  
$
378,686
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  74 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(In thousands, except per share data)
 

 Revenues:
  



 



  




 Software, hardware and supplies
  
$
122,407
  
 
$
106,514
  
  
$
89,761
  

 Implementation and training services
  
 
26,391
  
 
 
18,015
  
  
 
14,376
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 System sales
  
 
148,798
  
 
 
124,529
  
  
 
104,137
  

 Maintenance
  
 
138,832
  
 
 
110,019
  
  
 
89,192
  

 Electronic data interchange services
  
 
49,259
  
 
 
41,022
  
  
 
35,035
  

 Revenue cycle management and related services
  
 
45,572
  
 
 
45,065
  
  
 
36,665
  

 Other services
  
 
47,374
  
 
 
32,728
  
  
 
26,782
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services
  
 
281,037
  
 
 
228,834
  
  
 
187,674
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
429,835
  
 
 
353,363
  
  
 
291,811
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cost of revenue:
  



 



  




 Software, hardware and supplies
  
 
18,399
  
 
 
19,779
  
  
 
12,115
  

 Implementation and training services
  
 
21,298
  
 
 
15,010
  
  
 
11,983
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cost of system sales
  
 
39,697
  
 
 
34,789
  
  
 
24,098
  

 Maintenance
  
 
17,104
  
 
 
12,948
  
  
 
13,339
  

 Electronic data interchange services
  
 
32,422
  
 
 
27,711
  
  
 
25,262
  

 Revenue cycle management and related services
  
 
34,295
  
 
 
33,815
  
  
 
27,715
  

 Other services
  
 
27,705
  
 
 
18,219
  
  
 
20,393
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cost of maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services
  
 
111,526
  
 
 
92,693
  
  
 
86,709
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cost of revenue
  
 
151,223
  
 
 
127,482
  
  
 
110,807
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
278,612
  
 
 
225,881
  
  
 
181,004
  

 Operating expenses:
  



 



  




 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
128,846
  
 
 
108,310
  
  
 
86,951
  

 Research and development costs
  
 
31,369
  
 
 
21,797
  
  
 
16,546
  

 Amortization of acquired intangible assets
  
 
2,198
  
 
 
1,682
  
  
 
1,783
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
162,413
  
 
 
131,789
  
  
 
105,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income from operations
  
 
116,199
  
 
 
94,092
  
  
 
75,724
  

 Interest income
  
 
247
  
 
 
263
  
  
 
226
  

 Other income (expense), net
  
 
(139
) 
 
 
61
  
  
 
268
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before provision for income taxes
  
 
116,307
  
 
 
94,416
  
  
 
76,218
  

 Provision for income taxes
  
 
40,650
  
 
 
32,810
  
  
 
27,839
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
 
$
61,606
  
  
$
48,379
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income per share:
  



 



  




 Basic
  
$
1.29
  
 
$
1.06
  
  
$
0.84
  

 Diluted
  
$
1.28
  
 
$
1.06
  
  
$
0.84
  

 Weighted-average shares outstanding:
  



 



  




 Basic
  
 
58,729
  
 
 
57,894
  
  
 
57,270
  

 Diluted
  
 
59,049
  
 
 
58,236
  
  
 
57,592
  

 Dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.700
  
 
$
0.625
  
  
$
0.600
  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  75 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 
























 
  
Common Stock
 
  
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
  
RetainedEarnings
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 

 
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
  
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Balance, March 31, 2009
  
 
56,894
  
  
$
568
  
  
$
103,240
  
  
$
51,759
  
 
$
155,567
  

 Exercise of stock options
  
 
476
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
5,849
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
5,855
  

 Tax benefit resulting from exercise of stock options
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,576
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,576
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,073
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
2,073
  

 Stock-based compensation related to acquisitions
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
433
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
433
  

 Common stock issuance for acquisitions
  
 
388
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
8,811
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
8,815
  

 Dividends declared
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(34,409
) 
 
 
(34,409
) 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
48,379
  
 
 
48,379
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, March 31, 2010
  
 
57,758
  
  
 
578
  
  
 
121,982
  
  
 
65,729
  
 
 
188,289
  

 Exercise of stock options
  
 
310
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
5,714
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
5,717
  

 Tax benefit resulting from exercise of stock options
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,524
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
1,524
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,748
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,748
  

 Dividends declared
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(36,214
) 
 
 
(36,214
) 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
61,606
  
 
 
61,606
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, March 31, 2011
  
 
58,068
  
  
 
581
  
  
 
132,968
  
  
 
91,121
  
 
 
224,670
  

 Exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock
  
 
735
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
12,738
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
12,745
  

 Common stock issuance for Opus earnout settlement
  
 
286
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
11,885
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
11,888
  

 Common stock issuance for acquisitions
  
 
91
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
3,931
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,932
  

 Tax benefit resulting from exercise of stock options
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,145
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
4,145
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,321
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
3,321
  

 Dividends declared
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(41,181
) 
 
 
(41,181
) 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
75,657
  
 
 
75,657
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, March 31, 2012
  
 
59,180
  
  
$
592
  
  
$
168,988
  
  
$
125,597
  
 
$
295,177
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  76 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
 
$
61,606
  
 
$
48,379
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation
  
 
5,195
  
 
 
4,304
  
 
 
3,663
  

 Amortization of capitalized software costs
  
 
8,254
  
 
 
7,091
  
 
 
5,927
  

 Amortization of other intangibles
  
 
4,501
  
 
 
3,255
  
 
 
1,783
  

 Provision for bad debts
  
 
5,715
  
 
 
3,780
  
 
 
3,465
  

 Provision for inventory obsolescence
  
 
43
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
27
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
3,321
  
 
 
3,748
  
 
 
2,073
  

 Deferred income tax benefit
  
 
(8,025
) 
 
 
(4,194
) 
 
 
(786
) 

 Tax benefit associated with stock options
  
 
4,145
  
 
 
1,524
  
 
 
1,576
  

 Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation
  
 
(4,145
) 
 
 
(1,524
) 
 
 
(1,576
) 

 Loss (gain) on disposal of equipment and improvements
  
 
73
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
—
  

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of amounts acquired:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(10,389
) 
 
 
(36,094
) 
 
 
(18,944
) 

 Inventories
  
 
(1,825
) 
 
 
(620
) 
 
 
(238
) 

 Income taxes receivable
  
 
(2,628
) 
 
 
2,953
  
 
 
3,875
  

 Other current assets
  
 
(2,154
) 
 
 
(2,074
) 
 
 
(2,310
) 

 Other assets
  
 
(841
) 
 
 
(1,817
) 
 
 
(894
) 

 Accounts payable
  
 
(2,184
) 
 
 
3,344
  
 
 
(1,810
) 

 Deferred revenue
  
 
5,993
  
 
 
13,211
  
 
 
12,528
  

 Accrued compensation and related benefits
  
 
1,623
  
 
 
1,296
  
 
 
(1,006
) 

 Income taxes payable
  
 
(3,530
) 
 
 
3,530
  
 
 
(1,404
) 

 Other current liabilities
  
 
(3,229
) 
 
 
13,096
  
 
 
846
  

 Deferred compensation
  
 
1,009
  
 
 
605
  
 
 
46
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
207
  
 
 
(6,950
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
76,786
  
 
 
70,064
  
 
 
55,220
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Additions to capitalized software costs
  
 
(13,098
) 
 
 
(10,695
) 
 
 
(7,921
) 

 Additions to equipment and improvements
  
 
(10,323
) 
 
 
(6,804
) 
 
 
(4,935
) 

 Proceeds from disposal of equipment and improvements
  
 
11
  
 
 
336
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from sale of marketable securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
7,700
  
 
 
425
  

 Purchases of marketable securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1,120
) 
 
 
—
  

 Cash acquired from purchase of ViaTrack
  
 
10
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchase of ViaTrack
  
 
(5,710
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Cash acquired from purchase of CQI
  
 
222
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchase of CQI
  
 
(2,737
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchase of IntraNexus
  
 
(3,279
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Cash acquired from purchase of Opus
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,036
  

 Purchase of Opus
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(250
) 

 Purchase of Sphere
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(300
) 

 Payment of contingent consideration related to purchase of PMP
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,000
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(34,904
) 
 
 
(10,583
) 
 
 
(13,945
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation
  
 
4,145
  
 
 
1,524
  
 
 
1,576
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
12,789
  
 
 
5,717
  
 
 
5,855
  

 Dividends paid
  
 
(40,989
) 
 
 
(34,716
) 
 
 
(34,275
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
(24,055
) 
 
 
(27,475
) 
 
 
(26,844
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
17,827
  
 
 
32,006
  
 
 
14,431
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
  
 
116,617
  
 
 
84,611
  
 
 
70,180
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
  
$
134,444
  
 
$
116,617
  
 
$
84,611
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  77 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC.  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS — (Continued)   
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
  



 



  




 Cash paid during the period for income taxes, net of refunds
  
$
50,605
  
 
$
29,044
  
  
$
24,506
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Non-cash investing activities:
  



 



  




 Tenant improvement allowance received from landlord
  
$
—
  
 
$
1,970
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Unrealized loss on marketable securities, net of tax
  
$
(1
) 
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Common stock issued at fair value for Opus earnout settlement
  
$
11,888
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Issuance of stock options in connection with the acquisition of PMP
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
433
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Effective November 14, 2011, the Company acquired ViaTrack in a transaction summarized as follows:
  



 



  




 Fair value of net assets acquired
  
$
11,048
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Cash paid
  
 
(5,710
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Common stock issued at fair value
  
 
(1,068
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchase price holdback
  
 
(1,187
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
(2,958
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed
  
$
125
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Effective July 26, 2011, the Company acquired CQI in a transaction summarized as follows:
  



 



  




 Fair value of net assets acquired
  
$
11,417
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Cash paid
  
 
(2,737
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Common stock issued at fair value
  
 
(2,864
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchase price holdback
  
 
(600
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
(2,346
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed
  
$
2,870
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Effective April 29 2011, the Company acquired IntraNexus in a transaction summarized as follows:
  



 



  




 Fair value of net assets acquired
  
$
4,524
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Cash paid
  
 
(3,279
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Purchase price holdback
  
 
(125
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
(800
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed
  
$
320
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Effective February 10, 2010, the Company acquired Opus in a transaction summarized as follows:
  



 



  




 Fair value of net assets acquired
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
32,209
  

 Cash paid
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(250
) 

 Common stock issued at fair value
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(8,815
) 

 Fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(11,516
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
11,628
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Effective August 12, 2009, the Company acquired Sphere in a transaction summarized as follows:
  



 



  




 Fair value of net assets acquired
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
1,453
  

 Cash paid
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(300
) 

 Fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(1,074
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities assumed
  
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
$
79
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  78 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  MARCH 31, 2012 and 2011
 (In thousands, except shares and per share data) 
1. Organization of Business 
Description of Business  Quality Systems, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries operates as four business divisions and is comprised of: (i) the QSI Dental Division, which consists of ViaTrack Systems, LLC (“ViaTrack”);
(ii) the NextGen Division, which consists of NextGen Healthcare Information Systems, Inc.(“NextGen”); (iii) the Hospital Solutions Division (formerly Inpatient Solutions Division), which consists of Sphere Health Systems, Inc.
(“Sphere”), Opus Healthcare Solutions, LLC (“Opus”), IntraNexus, Inc. (“IntraNexus”), and CQI Solutions, Inc. (“CQI”); (iv) the RCM Services Division (formerly Practice Solutions Division), which consists
of Lackland Acquisition II, LLC dba Healthcare Strategic Initiatives (“HSI”) and Practice Management Partners, Inc. (“PMP”) and (v) Quality Systems India Healthcare Private Limited (“QSIH”) (collectively, the
“Company”). The Company develops and markets healthcare information systems that automate certain aspects of medical and dental practices, networks of practices such as physician hospital organizations (“PHOs”) and management
service organizations (“MSOs”), ambulatory care centers, community health centers and medical and dental schools. The Company also provides revenue cycle management (“RCM”) services through the RCM Services Division. 
The Company, a California corporation formed in 1974, was founded with an early focus on providing information systems to dental group practices. In
the mid-1980’s, the Company capitalized on the increasing focus on medical cost containment and further expanded its information processing systems to serve the medical market. In the mid-1990’s, the Company made two acquisitions that
accelerated its penetration of the medical market. These two acquisitions formed the basis for the NextGen Division. Today, we serve the physician, inpatient and dental markets through our QSI Dental Division, NextGen Division, Hospital Solutions
Division and RCM Services Division.  The QSI Dental Division, co-located with the Corporate Headquarters in Irvine, California, currently
focuses on developing, marketing and supporting software suites sold to dental organizations located throughout the US.  The NextGen
Division, with headquarters in Horsham, Pennsylvania and locations in Atlanta, Georgia, provides integrated clinical, financial and connectivity solutions for ambulatory and dental provider organizations. 
The Hospital Solutions Division, with its primary location in Austin, Texas, provides integrated clinical, financial and connectivity solutions for
rural and community hospitals.  The RCM Services Division, with locations in St. Louis, Missouri and Hunt Valley,
Maryland, focuses primarily on providing physician practices with RCM services, primarily billing and collection services for medical practices. This Division combines a web-delivered SaaS model and the NextGenpm software platform to execute its service offerings. 
In January 2011, QSIH was formed in Bangalore, India to function as our India-based captive to offshore technology application development and
business processing services.  The divisions operate largely as stand-alone operations, with each division maintaining its own distinct
product lines, product platforms, development, implementation and support teams and branding. The divisions share the resources of our “corporate office,” which includes a variety of accounting and other administrative functions.
Additionally, there are a small but growing number of clients who are simultaneously utilizing software or services from more than one of our divisions. We are in the process of further integrating the ambulatory and inpatient products to provide a
more robust platform to offer both the inpatient and ambulatory markets. 
  79 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Acquisitions 
Hospital Solutions Division  On April 29, 2011, the Company acquired IntraNexus, a provider of web-based integrated clinical and hospital information systems. On July 26, 2011, the Company acquired CQI, a provider of hospital systems
for surgery management. These acquisitions are part of the Company’s strategy to expand into the small hospital market and to add new clients by taking advantage of cross selling opportunities between the ambulatory and inpatient markets. All
four companies are established developers of software and services for the inpatient market and will operate under the Company’s Hospital Solutions Division.  QSI Dental Division  On November 14, 2011, the Company acquired ViaTrack, a
developer and provider of information technologies that enhance EDI offerings. This acquisition provides a platform to pursue significant opportunities that exist to add EDI services to our portfolio of offerings in the Inpatient market and will
operate under the Company’s QSI Dental Division.  Stock Split 
On July 27, 2011, the Board of Directors approved a two-for-one split of our common stock and a proportional increase in the number of our
common shares authorized from 50 million to 100 million. Each shareholder of record at the close of business on October 6, 2011 received one additional share for every outstanding share held on the record date. The additional shares were
distributed October 26, 2011 and trading began on a split-adjusted basis on October 27, 2011. All share and per share amounts in this Report have been restated for all periods presented to reflect the two-for-one split of our common stock.

2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Principles of Consolidation.    The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of Quality Systems, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, which consists of NextGen Healthcare Information Systems (“NextGen”), Lackland Acquisition II, LLC dba Healthcare Strategic Initiatives (“HSI”), Practice
Management Partners, Inc. (“PMP”), Sphere Health Systems, Inc.(“Sphere”), Opus Healthcare Solutions, LLC (“Opus”), IntraNexus, Inc. (“IntraNexus”), CQI Solutions, Inc. (“CQI”), ViaTrack Systems, LLC
(“ViaTrack”), and Quality Systems India Healthcare Private Limited (“QSIH”) (collectively, the “Company”). All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. 
Business Segments.    The Company has prepared operating segment
information based on the manner in which management disaggregates the Company’s operations for making internal operating decisions. See Note 14. 
Basis of Presentation.    The accompanying consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).References to amounts in the consolidated financial statement sections are in thousands, except shares and
per share data, unless otherwise specified. 
Revenue Recognition.    The Company generates revenue from
the sale of licensing rights to its software products directly to end-users and value-added resellers, or VARs. The Company also generates revenue from sales of hardware and third-party software, implementation, training, electronic data interchange
(“EDI”), post-contract support (maintenance) and other services, including revenue cycle management (“RCM”), performed for clients who license its products.   
  80 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
A typical system contract contains multiple elements of the above items. Revenue earned on
software arrangements involving multiple elements is allocated to each element based on the relative fair values of those elements. The fair value of an element is based on vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”). The Company limits
its assessment of VSOE for each element to either the price charged when the same element is sold separately or the price established by management having the relevant authority to do so, for an element not yet sold separately. VSOE calculations are
updated and reviewed quarterly or annually depending on the nature of the product or service. The Company has established VSOE for the related undelivered elements based on the bell-shaped curve method. Maintenance VSOE for the Company’s
largest clients is based on stated renewal rates only if the rate is determined to be substantive and falls within the Company’s customary pricing practices.  When evidence of fair value exists for the delivered and undelivered elements of a transaction, then discounts for individual elements are aggregated and the total discount is allocated to the individual elements
in proportion to the elements’ fair value relative to the total contract fair value.  When evidence of fair value exists for the
undelivered elements only, the residual method is used. Under the residual method, the Company defers revenue related to the undelivered elements in a system sale based on VSOE of fair value of each of the undelivered elements and allocates the
remainder of the contract price net of all discounts to revenue recognized from the delivered elements. If VSOE of fair value of any undelivered element does not exist, all revenue is deferred until VSOE of fair value of the undelivered element is
established or the element has been delivered.  The Company records accounts receivable for the entire system sales contract amount upon
contract execution except for arrangements that provide for services to be billed as incurred. Amounts billed in excess of the amounts contractually due are recorded in accounts receivable as advance billings. Amounts are contractually due when
services are performed or in accordance with contractually specified payment dates. Provided the fees are fixed or determinable and collection is considered probable, revenue from licensing rights and sales of hardware and third-party software is
generally recognized upon physical or electronic shipment and transfer of title. In certain transactions where collection risk is high, the revenue is deferred until collection occurs or becomes probable. If the fee is not fixed or determinable,
then the revenue recognized in each period (subject to application of other revenue recognition criteria) will be the lesser of the aggregate of amounts due and payable or the amount of the arrangement fee that would have been recognized if the fees
were being recognized using the residual method. Fees which are considered fixed or determinable at the inception of the Company’s arrangements must include the following characteristics: 
 


 
•
 
 The fee must be negotiated at the outset of an arrangement and generally be based on the specific volume of products to be delivered without being subject to
change based on variable pricing mechanisms such as the number of units copied or distributed or the expected number of users.   


 
•
 
 Payment terms must not be considered extended. If a significant portion of the fee is due more than 12 months after delivery or after the expiration of the
license, the fee is presumed not fixed or determinable.  Revenue from implementation and training services is
recognized as the corresponding services are performed. Maintenance revenue is recognized ratably over the contractual maintenance period. 
The Company ensures that the following criteria have been met prior to recognition of revenue: 
 


 
•
 
 the price is fixed or determinable;   


 
•
 
 the customer is obligated to pay and there are no contingencies surrounding the obligation or the payment; 
  81 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


 
•
 
 the customer’s obligation would not change in the event of theft or damage to the product; 
 


 
•
 
 the customer has economic substance;   


 
•
 
 the amount of returns can be reasonably estimated; and   


 
•
 
 the Company does not have significant obligations for future performance in order to bring about resale of the product by the customer.
 The Company has historically offered short-term rights of return in certain sales arrangements. If the Company is able
to estimate returns for these types of arrangements, revenue is recognized, net of an allowance for returns, and these arrangements are recorded in the consolidated financial statements. If the Company is unable to estimate returns for these types
of arrangements, revenue is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements until the rights of return expire, provided also, that all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. 
Revenue related to sales arrangements that include hosting or the right to use software stored on the Company’s hardware is recognized in
accordance to the same revenue recognition criteria discussed above only if the customer has the contractual right to take possession of the software without incurring a significant penalty and it is feasible for the customer to either host the
software themselves or through another third-party. Otherwise, the arrangement is accounted for as a service contract in which the entire arrangement is deferred and recognized over the period that the hosting services are being performed.
 From time to time, the Company offers future purchase discounts on its products and services as part of its sales arrangements. Such
discounts that are incremental to the range of discounts reflected in the pricing of the other elements of the arrangement, that are incremental to the range of discounts typically given in comparable transactions, and that are significant, are
treated as an additional element of the contract to be deferred. Amounts deferred related to future purchase options are not recognized until either the customer exercises the discount offer or the offer expires. 
RCM service revenue is derived from services fees, which include amounts charged for ongoing billing and other related services, and are generally
billed to the customer as a percentage of total collections. The Company does not recognize revenue for services fees until these collections are made, as the services fees are not fixed or determinable until such time. 
Revenue is divided into two categories, “system sales” and “maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services.” Revenue in the system
sales category includes software license fees, third-party hardware and software and implementation and training services related to purchase of the Company’s software systems. Revenue in the maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services category
includes maintenance, EDI, RCM services, follow on training and implementation services, annual third-party license fees, hosting services and other services revenue. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents.    Cash and cash equivalents generally
consist of cash, money market funds and short-term U.S. Treasury securities with maturities of 90 days or less at the time of purchase. The Company had cash deposits at U.S. banks and financial institutions at March 31, 2012 of which
$132.4 million was in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limit of $250,000 per owner. The Company is exposed to credit loss for amounts in excess of insured limits in the event of nonperformance by the institutions;
however, the Company does not anticipate nonperformance by these institutions.  The money market fund in which the Company holds a
portion of its cash invests in only investment grade money market instruments from a variety of industries, and therefore bears relatively low market risk. 
Restricted Cash.    Restricted cash consists of cash which is being held by
HSI acting as agent for the disbursement of certain state social services programs. The Company records an offsetting “Care 
  82 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Services liability” (see also Note 9) when it initially receives such cash from the government social service programs and relieves both restricted cash and the Care Services liability when
amounts are disbursed. HSI earns an administrative fee which is based on a percentage of funds disbursed on behalf of certain government social service programs. 
Marketable Securities.    Marketable securities are classified as
available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value, based on quoted market rates when observable or valuation analysis when appropriate. Unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are included in shareholders’ equity. Realized gains and losses
on investments are included as interest income. 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.    The Company provides credit terms typically
ranging from thirty days to less than twelve months for most system and maintenance contract sales and generally does not require collateral. The Company performs credit evaluations of its clients and maintains reserves for estimated credit losses.
Reserves for potential credit losses are determined by establishing both specific and general reserves. Specific reserves are based on management’s estimate of the probability of collection for certain troubled accounts. General reserves are
established based on the Company’s historical experience of bad debt expense and the aging of the Company’s accounts receivable balances, net of deferred revenue and specifically reserved accounts. Accounts are written off as uncollectible
only after the Company has expended extensive collection efforts.  Included in accounts receivable are amounts related to maintenance and
services which were billed, but which had not yet been rendered as of the end of the period. Undelivered maintenance and services are included as a component of deferred revenue (see also Note 9). 
Inventories.    Inventories consist of hardware for specific client orders and
spare parts and are valued at lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. Management provides a reserve to reduce inventory to its net realizable value. 
Equipment and Improvements.    Equipment and improvements are
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Repair and maintenance costs that do not improve service potential or extend economic life are expensed as incurred. Depreciation and amortization of equipment and improvements are
recorded over the estimated useful lives of the assets, or the related lease terms if shorter, by the straight-line method. Useful lives generally have the following ranges: 
 






 •  Computers equipment
  
3-5 years

 •  Furniture and fixtures
  
5-7 years

 •  Furniture and fixtures
  
lesser of lease term or estimated useful life of asset
 Costs incurred to develop internal-use software during the application development stage are capitalized, stated at
cost, and amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which is seven years. Application development stage costs generally include costs associated with internal-use software configuration, coding,
installation and testing. Costs of significant upgrades and enhancements that result in additional functionality are also capitalized, whereas costs incurred for maintenance and minor upgrades and enhancements are expensed as incurred. 
Software Development Costs.    Development costs
incurred in the research and development of new software products and enhancements to existing software products for external use are expensed as incurred until technological feasibility has been established. After technological feasibility is
established, any additional external software development costs are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the related product, which is typically three years. The Company provides support services on
the current and prior two versions of its software. Management performs an annual review of the estimated economic life and the recoverability of such capitalized 
  83 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

software costs. If a determination is made that capitalized amounts are not recoverable based on the estimated cash flows to be generated from the applicable software, any remaining capitalized
amounts are written off. 
Business Combinations.    In accordance with the accounting for
business combinations, the Company allocates the purchase price of acquired businesses to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on estimated fair values. The purchase price allocation methodology contains
uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. Management estimates the fair value of assets and liabilities based upon quoted market prices, the
carrying value of the acquired assets and widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows and market multiple analyses. Unanticipated events or circumstances may occur which could affect the accuracy of our fair value
estimates, including assumptions regarding industry economic factors and business strategies. 
Goodwill.    The Company tests goodwill for
impairment annually at the end of its first fiscal quarter, referred to as the annual test date, and has determined that there was no impairment to its goodwill as of June 30, 2011. The Company will also test for impairment between annual
test dates if an event occurs or circumstances change that would indicate the carrying amount may be impaired. Impairment testing for goodwill is performed at a reporting-unit level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below
an operating segment (referred to as a component). A component of an operating segment is a reporting unit if the component constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews
the operating results of that component.  We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology we use to assess impairment
loss during the past three fiscal years. The first step of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of the applicable reporting units with their carrying values. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the reporting
unit’s fair value, we perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test. The second step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the affected reporting unit’s goodwill with the carrying value of
that goodwill. The amount by which the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, if any, is recognized as an impairment loss. As of March 31, 2012, the Company has not identified any events or circumstances that would
require an interim goodwill impairment test. See Note 6. 
Intangible Assets.    Intangible assets
consist of customer relationships, trade names and certain software technology. These intangible assets are recorded at fair value and are stated net of accumulated amortization. The Company currently amortizes the intangible assets over periods
ranging from three to nine years using a method that reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed. 
Long-Lived Assets.    The Company assesses the
recoverability of long-lived assets at least annually or whenever adverse events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. If the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the related assets are
less than the carrying value of such assets, impairment has been incurred and a loss is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived assets to fair value, which is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows. 
Management periodically reviews the carrying value of long-lived assets to determine whether or not impairment to such value has occurred and has
determined that there was no impairment to its long-lived assets as of March 31, 2012. In addition to the recoverability assessment, the Company routinely reviews the remaining estimated lives of its long-lived assets. 
Income Taxes.    Income taxes are provided based on current taxable income and the
future tax consequences of temporary differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial and tax 
  84 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

reporting. The deferred income tax assets and liabilities represent the future state and federal tax return consequences of those differences, which will either be taxable or deductible when the
assets and liabilities are recovered or settled. Deferred income taxes are also recognized for operating losses that are available to offset future taxable income and tax credits that are available to offset future income taxes. At each reporting
period, management assesses the realizable value of deferred tax assets based on, among other things, estimates of future taxable income and adjusts the related valuation allowance as necessary. Management makes a number of assumptions and estimates
in determining the appropriate amount of expense to record for income taxes. These assumptions and estimates consider the taxing jurisdiction in which the Company operates as well as current tax regulations. Accruals are established for estimates of
tax effects for certain transactions and future projected profitability of the Company’s businesses based on management’s interpretation of existing facts and circumstances. 
Self-Insurance Liabilities.    Effective January 1, 2010, the
Company became self-insured with respect to healthcare claims, subject to stop-loss limits. The Company accrues for estimated self-insurance costs and uninsured exposures based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported as
of each balance sheet date. However, it is possible that recorded accruals may not be adequate to cover the future payment of claims. Adjustments, if any, to estimated accruals resulting from ultimate claim payments will be reflected in earnings
during the periods in which such adjustments are determined. Periodically, the Company reevaluates the adequacy of the accruals by comparing amounts accrued on the balance sheets for anticipated losses to an updated actuarial loss forecasts and
third-party claim administrator loss estimates and makes adjustments to the accruals as needed. The self-insurance accrual is included in other current liabilities. If any of the factors that contribute to the overall cost of insurance claims were
to change, the actual amount incurred for the self-insurance liabilities would be directly affected.  As of March 31, 2012 and 2011,
the self-insurance accrual was approximately $934 and $475, respectively, and is included in other current liabilities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. If any of the factors that contribute to the overall cost of insurance claims
were to change, the actual amount incurred for the self-insurance liabilities would be directly affected. 
Advertising Costs.    Advertising costs are charged to operations as
incurred. The Company does not have any direct-response advertising. Advertising costs, which include trade shows and conventions, were approximately $6,254, $7,122 and $6,198 for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and
were included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 
Marketing Assistance Agreements.    The Company has entered
into marketing assistance agreements with certain existing users of the Company’s products, which provide the opportunity for those users to earn commissions if they host specific site visits upon the Company’s request for prospective
clients that directly result in a purchase of the Company’s software by the visiting prospects. Amounts earned by existing users under this program are treated as a selling expense in the period when earned. 
Foreign Currency Translation.    The
U.S. dollar is considered to be the functional currency for QSIH because it acts primarily as an extension of the Company’s operations. The determination of functional currency is primarily based on QSIH’s relative financial and
operational dependence. Assets and liabilities are re-measured at current exchange rates, except for property and equipment, depreciation and investments, which are translated at historical exchange rates. Revenues and expenses are re-measured at
weighted average exchange rates in effect during the year except for costs related to the above mentioned balance sheet items, which are translated at historical rates. Foreign currency gains and losses are included in other income (expense) in
the consolidated statements of income. The net foreign currency gain (loss) for the year ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was not significant. 
  85 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Earnings per Share.    The Company provides dual presentation of
“basic” and “diluted” earnings per share (“EPS”). Shares discussed below are in thousands.  Basic EPS
excludes dilution from common stock equivalents and is computed by dividing income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution from common
stock equivalents and is based on the assumption that the Company’s outstanding options are included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share, except when their effect would be anti-dilutive. Dilution is computed by applying the
treasury stock method. Under this method, options are assumed to be exercised at the beginning of the period (or at the time of issuance, if later), and as if funds obtained thereby were used to purchase common stock at the average market price
during the period. The following table reconciles the weighted-average shares outstanding for basic and diluted net income per share for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
  
$
61,606
  
  
$
48,379
  

 Basic net income per share:
  



  



  




 Weighted-average shares outstanding — Basic
  
 
58,729
  
  
 
57,894
  
  
 
57,270
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Basic net income per common share
  
$
1.29
  
  
$
1.06
  
  
$
0.84
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
75,657
  
  
$
61,606
  
  
$
48,379
  

 Diluted net income per share:
  



  



  




 Weighted-average shares outstanding — Basic
  
 
58,729
  
  
 
57,894
  
  
 
57,270
  

 Effect of potentially dilutive securities
  
 
320
  
  
 
342
  
  
 
322
  

 Weighted-average shares outstanding — Diluted
  
 
59,049
  
  
 
58,236
  
  
 
57,592
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted net income per common share
  
$
1.28
  
  
$
1.06
  
  
$
0.84
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

The computation of diluted net income per share does not include 335, 514 and 150 options for the years ended March 31, 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively, because their inclusion would have an anti-dilutive effect on net income per share. 
Share-Based Compensation.    The Company
estimates the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant using an option-pricing model. Expected term is estimated using historical exercise experience. Volatility is estimated by using the weighted-average historical volatility
of the Company’s common stock, which approximates expected volatility. The risk free rate is the implied yield available on the U.S Treasury zero-coupon issues with remaining terms equal to the expected term. The expected dividend yield is the
average dividend rate during a period equal to the expected term of the option. Those inputs are then entered into the Black Scholes model to determine the estimated fair value. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to
vest is recognized ratably as expense over the requisite service period in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. 
Share-based compensation is adjusted on a quarterly basis for changes to estimated forfeitures based on a review of historical forfeiture activity.
To the extent that actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the estimate, share-based compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. The effect of the forfeiture adjustments for years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was not
significant. 
  86 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table shows total share-based compensation expense included in the consolidated
statements of income for years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010:   
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Costs and expenses:
  



 



 




 Cost of revenue
  
$
261
  
 
$
272
  
 
$
85
  

 Research and development costs
  
 
184
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
108
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
2,876
  
 
 
3,324
  
 
 
1,880
  


  



 



 




 Total share-based compensation
  
 
3,321
  
 
 
3,748
  
 
 
2,073
  

 Amounts capitalized in software development costs
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(27
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts charged against earnings, before income tax benefit
  
$
3,321
  
 
$
3,746
  
 
$
2,046
  

 Related income tax benefit
  
 
(1,236
) 
 
 
(1,343
) 
 
 
(608
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Decrease in net income
  
$
2,085
  
 
$
2,403
  
 
$
1,438
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Sales Taxes.    The Company records revenue net of sales tax obligation in the
consolidated statements of income. 
Use of Estimates.    The preparation of consolidated financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the
reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to uncollectible receivables, vendor specific objective evidence, self-insurance accruals and
income taxes and related credits and deductions. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making
judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 
New Accounting Standards.    In April 2010, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an amendment to stock compensation. The amendment clarifies that an employee stock-based payment award with an exercise price denominated in the currency of a market in which a substantial portion of the
entity’s equity shares trades should not be considered to contain a condition that is not a market, performance, or service condition. Therefore, an entity would not classify such an award as a liability if it otherwise qualifies as equity. The
amendment is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2010. There was no material impact from the adoption of this guidance on the Company’s consolidated financial
position or results of operations since the Company’s stock-based payment awards have an exercise price denominated in the same currency of the market in which the Company’s shares are traded. 
In December 2010, FASB issued an amendment to the goodwill impairment test. The amendment modifies Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for
reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is
more likely than not that goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with the existing guidance and examples,
which require that goodwill of a reporting unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a

  87 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

reporting unit below its carrying amount. The amendment is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. There was no material impact
from the adoption of this guidance on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations since the Company does not have any reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. 
In December 2010, FASB issued an amendment to the disclosure of supplementary pro forma information for business combinations. The amendment
specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the
beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The amendment also expands the supplemental pro forma disclosures to include a description of the nature and amount of material, non-recurring pro forma adjustments directly
attributable to the business combination included in the reported pro forma revenue and earnings. The amendment is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual
reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The adoption of this guidance had no material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations, but may have an effect on the required disclosures
for future business combinations.  In May 2011, FASB issued additional guidance on fair value measurements that clarifies the application
of existing guidance and disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements
issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
In September 2011, FASB issued new accounting guidance intended to simplify goodwill impairment testing. Companies will be allowed to first perform
a qualitative assessment on goodwill impairment to determine whether a quantitative assessment is necessary. This guidance is optional and effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. The Company
is evaluating the option of adding a qualitative assessment to its goodwill impairment test.  In January 2012, FASB issued updated
guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The new standard requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of
comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The updated guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after
December 15, 2011. The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact on the Company’s financial statements. 
3.    Cash and Cash Equivalents 
At March 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $134,444 and $116,617, respectively. Cash and cash
equivalents consist of cash, money market funds and short-term U.S. Treasury securities with original maturities of less than 90 days. The money market fund in which the Company holds a portion of its cash invests in only investment grade money
market instruments from a variety of industries, and therefore bears relatively low market risk. 
  88 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
4.    Fair Value Measurements 
The following tables set forth by level within the fair value hierarchy the Company’s financial assets and liabilities that
were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis at March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011:   




















 
  
Balance atMarch 31,2012
 
  
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets forIdenticalAssets(Level
1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
UnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

 ASSETS
  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents(1)
  
$
134,444
  
  
$
134,444
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Marketable securities(2)
  
 
4,987
  
  
 
4,987
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
141,393
  
  
$
141,393
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES
  



  



  



  




 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions
  
$
6,556
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
6,556
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
6,556
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
6,556
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
Balance atMarch 31,2011
 
  
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets forIdenticalAssets(Level
1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
UnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

 ASSETS
  



  



  



  




 Cash and cash equivalents(1)
  
$
116,617
  
  
$
116,617
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Restricted cash
  
 
3,787
  
  
 
3,787
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Marketable securities(2)
  
 
1,120
  
  
 
1,120
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
121,524
  
  
$
121,524
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 LIABILITIES
  



  



  



  




 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions
  
$
13,658
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
12,743
  
  
$
915
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
13,658
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
12,743
  
  
$
915
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Cash and cash equivalents consists of money market funds and certificates of deposit. 


(2)
Marketable securities consists of fixed-income securities. 
The Company’s contingent consideration liability is accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis and is adjusted to fair
value when the carrying value differs from fair value. The categorization of the framework used to measure fair value of the contingent consideration liability is considered Level 3 due to the subjective nature of the unobservable inputs used. The
fair values of the contingent consideration liability for Sphere, IntraNexus, CQI, and ViaTrack were estimated based on the probability of achieving certain business milestones and management’s forecast of expected revenues. See Note 5.

  89 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table presents activity in the Company’s financial assets and liabilities
measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3), as March 31, 2012:   












 
  
Total Assets
 
 
Total Liabilities
 

 Balance at March 31, 2010
  
$
7,706
  
 
$
12,590
  

 Transfer out of Level 3 (Note 5)
  
 
—
  
 
 
(12,743
) 

 Earnout payments
  
 
—
  
 
 
(253
) 

 Goodwill adjustment (Note 5)
  
 
—
  
 
 
532
  

 Fair value adjustments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
789
  

 Proceeds from sale at par
  
 
(7,700
) 
 
 
—
  

 Recognized loss
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at March 31, 2011
  
$
—
  
 
$
915
  

 Acquisitions (Note 5)
  
 
—
  
 
 
6,104
  

 Earnout payments
  
 
—
  
 
 
(463
) 

 Fair value adjustments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at March 31, 2012
  
 
—
  
 
 
6,556
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  The estimated fair value of financial instruments is determined using the best available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies. However, considerable judgment is necessary in interpreting
market data to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange, or the value that ultimately will be realized upon
maturity or disposition. The use of different market assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. The Company’s financial instruments, other than those presented in the disclosures above, accounts receivables,
accounts payable and accrued liabilities. The carrying value of these assets and liabilities approximates fair value because of the short-term nature of these instruments.  Interest income related to cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities for years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $0.2 million, $0.3 million and $0.2 million, respectively. 
Non-Recurring Fair Value Measurements  The Company has certain assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, which are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and are adjusted to fair value only if an impairment charge is recognized.
The categorization of the framework used to measure fair value of the assets is considered Level 3 due to the subjective nature of the unobservable inputs used. During the year ended March 31, 2012, there were no adjustments to fair value of
such assets, except for the intangible assets acquired from IntraNexus, CQI and ViaTrack as discussed below in Note 5. 
5.    Business Combinations 
On November 14, 2011, the Company acquired ViaTrack, a developer and provider of information technologies that enhance EDI
offerings. The ViaTrack purchase price totaled $10,923. The purchase price included contingent consideration payable over a one year period with a fair value of $2,958, which was estimated based on management’s forecast of expected revenues,
but in no event shall this form of consideration exceed $4,000.  On July 26, 2011, the Company acquired CQI, a provider of hospital
systems for surgery management. The CQI purchase price totaled $8,546. The purchase price included contingent 
  90 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

consideration payable over a two year period with a fair value of $2,346, which was estimated based on management’s forecast of expected revenues, but in no event shall this form of
consideration exceed $3,000. Subsequently at March 31, 2012, the Company recorded a $2.3 million deferred tax liability related to the acquired intangibles, which should have been recorded in the initial purchase price allocation. The offset to
this adjustment was goodwill. The Company has concluded this correction to the balance sheet is not material to any periods affected.  On
April 29, 2011, the Company acquired IntraNexus, a provider of Web-based integrated clinical and hospital information systems. The IntraNexus purchase price totaled $4,204. The purchase price included contingent consideration payable over a
three year period with a fair value of $800, which was estimated based on management’s forecast of expected revenues, but in no event shall this form of consideration exceed $1,650. 
On March 30, 2011, the Company entered into an amendment to the Opus merger agreement to terminate the terms of the earnout under the original
merger agreement early for $12,250, payable in 143,000 shares of Company common stock to the selling security holders and $856 in cash to the option holders. The fair value of the Opus earnout settlement was $12,743, which is the fair value of the
Opus contingent consideration recorded in other current liabilities as of March 31, 2011. In reviewing the final settlement, the Company identified an error in the initial purchase price allocation related to the fair value of the price collar
provisions in the merger agreement. As a result, the Company recorded an adjustment of $532 to goodwill and contingent consideration liability to correct the initial purchase price allocation as of February 10, 2010. The Company has concluded
that this correction is not material to any periods affected.  The Company accounted for the ViaTrack, CQI and IntraNexus acquisitions as
purchase business combinations. The purchase price for each was allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the applicable acquisition date. The fair value of the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed represent management’s estimate of fair value. The estimated fair value of the acquired tangible and intangible assets and liabilities assumed were determined using multiple valuation approaches depending on the
type of tangible or intangible asset acquired, including but not limited to the income approach, the excess earnings method and the relief from royalty method approach.  The total purchase price for IntraNexus, CQI, and ViaTrack are summarized as follows:   
















 
  
IntraNexus
 
  
CQI
 
  
ViaTrack
 

 Cash paid
  
$
3,279
  
  
$
2,737
  
  
$
5,710
  

 Purchase price holdback
  
 
125
  
  
 
600
  
  
 
1,187
  

 Common stock issued at fair value
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,863
  
  
 
1,068
  

 Contingent consideration
  
 
800
  
  
 
2,346
  
  
 
2,958
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price
  
$
4,204
  
  
$
8,546
  
  
$
10,923
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  91 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table summarizes the final purchase price allocation for IntraNexus, CQI, and
ViaTrack:   
















 
  
IntraNexus
 
 
CQI
 
 
ViaTrack
 

 Fair value of the net tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed:
  



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
—
  
 
$
222
  
 
$
10
  

 Current assets (including accounts receivable of $464, $409 and $436 for IntraNexus, CQI and ViaTrack, respectively)
  
 
691
  
 
 
410
  
 
 
462
  

 Equipment and improvements and other long-term assets
  
 
—
  
 
 
221
  
 
 
47
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
(226
) 
 
 
(19
) 
 
 
(125
) 

 Deferred revenues
  
 
(94
) 
 
 
(520
) 
 
 
—
  

 Deferred tax liabilities
  
 
—
  
 
 
(2,331
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
  
 
371
  
 
 
(2,017
) 
 
 
394
  

 Fair value of identifiable intangible assets acquired:
  



 



 




 Trade Name
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
130
  

 Customer relationships
  
 
1,100
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
1,800
  

 Software technology
  
 
830
  
 
 
5,100
  
 
 
1,310
  

 Goodwill (including assembled workforce of $120 for IntraNexus)(1)
  
 
1,903
  
 
 
4,863
  
 
 
7,289
  


  



 



 




 Total identifiable intangible assets acquired
  
 
3,833
  
 
 
10,563
  
 
 
10,529
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total purchase price
  
$
4,204
  
 
$
8,546
  
 
$
10,923
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Goodwill represents excess of the purchase price over total assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 
The pro forma effects of the IntraNexus, CQI and ViaTrack acquisitions would not have been material to the Company’s results of operations and
are therefore not presented. 
  92 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
6.    Goodwill 
The Company does not amortize goodwill as our goodwill has been determined to have an indefinite useful life. 
Goodwill consists of the following:   
















 
  
Balance atMarch 31,2011
 
  
Acquisitions
 
  
Balance atMarch 31,2012
 

 QSI Dental Division
  



  



  




 ViaTrack Systems, LLC
  
$
—
  
  
$
7,289
  
  
$
7,289
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total QSI Dental Division goodwill
  
 
—
  
  
 
7,289
  
  
 
7,289
  

 NextGen Division
  



  



  




 NextGen Healthcare Information Systems, Inc.
  
 
1,840
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,840
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total NextGen Division goodwill
  
 
1,840
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,840
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  



  



  




 CQI Solutions, Inc.
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,863
  
  
 
4,863
  

 IntraNexus, Inc.
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,903
  
  
 
1,903
  

 Opus Healthcare Solutions, Inc.
  
 
13,537
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
13,537
  

 Sphere Health Systems, Inc.
  
 
1,020
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,020
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Hospital Solutions Division goodwill
  
 
14,557
  
  
 
6,766
  
  
 
21,323
  

 RCM Services Division
  



  



  




 Practice Management Partners, Inc.
  
 
19,485
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19,485
  

 Healthcare Strategic Initiatives
  
 
10,839
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
10,839
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total RCM Services Division goodwill
  
 
30,324
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
30,324
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total goodwill
  
$
46,721
  
  
$
14,055
  
  
$
60,776
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

7.    Intangible Assets 
In connection with the ViaTrack acquisition, the Company recorded $3,240 of intangible assets related to a trade name, customer
relationships and software technology. The Company is amortizing the trade name over three years, the customer relationships over five years, and the software technology over five years. 
In connection with the CQI acquisition, the Company recorded $5,700 of intangible assets related to customer relationships and software technology.
The Company is amortizing the customer relationships over five years and the software technology over seven years.  In connection with
the IntraNexus acquisition, the Company recorded $1,930 of intangible assets related to customer relationships and software technology. The Company is amortizing the customer relationships over five years and the software technology over four years.

  93 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Company’s intangible assets, other than capitalized software development costs, with
determinable lives are summarized as follows:   




















 
  
March 31, 2012
 

 
  
CustomerRelationships
 
 
TradeName
 
 
SoftwareTechnology
 
 
Total
 

 Gross carrying amount
  
$
13,706
  
 
$
768
  
 
$
19,359
  
 
$
33,833
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(5,901
) 
 
 
(606
) 
 
 
(4,067
) 
 
 
(10,574
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net intangible assets
  
$
7,805
  
 
$
162
  
 
$
15,292
  
 
$
23,259
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




















 
  
March 31, 2011
 

 
  
CustomerRelationships
 
 
TradeName
 
 
SoftwareTechnology
 
 
Total
 

 Gross carrying amount
  
$
10,206
  
 
$
637
  
 
$
12,119
  
 
$
22,962
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(3,879
) 
 
 
(429
) 
 
 
(1,764
) 
 
 
(6,072
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net intangible assets
  
$
6,327
  
 
$
208
  
 
$
10,355
  
 
$
16,890
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Activity related to the intangible assets is summarized as follows: 
 




















 
  
CustomerRelationships
 
 
TradeName
 
 
SoftwareTechnology
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at March 31, 2010
  
$
7,849
  
 
$
368
  
 
$
11,928
  
 
$
20,145
  

 Amortization(1)
  
 
(1,522
) 
 
 
(160
) 
 
 
(1,573
) 
 
 
(3,255
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at March 31, 2011
  
 
6,327
  
 
 
208
  
 
 
10,355
  
 
 
16,890
  

 Acquisition
  
 
3,500
  
 
 
130
  
 
 
7,240
  
 
 
10,870
  

 Amortization(1)
  
 
(2,022
) 
 
 
(176
) 
 
 
(2,303
) 
 
 
(4,501
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at March 31, 2012
  
$
7,805
  
 
$
162
  
 
$
15,292
  
 
$
23,259
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Amortization of the customer relationships and trade name intangible assets is included in operating expenses and amortization of the software technology intangible assets is
included in cost of revenue for software, hardware and supplies. 
  94 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table represents the remaining estimated amortization of intangible assets with
determinable lives as of March 31, 2012:   








 For the year ended March 31,
  




 2013
  
$
5,125
  

 2014
  
 
4,996
  

 2015
  
 
3,940
  

 2016
  
 
3,603
  

 2017 and beyond
  
 
5,595
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
23,259
  


  
  
  
 

8.    Capitalized Software Costs 
The Company’s capitalized software development costs are summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
March 31,2012
 
 
March 31,2011
 

 Gross carrying amount
  
$
65,221
  
 
$
52,123
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(45,227
) 
 
 
(36,973
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net capitalized software costs
  
$
19,994
  
 
$
15,150
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Activity related to net capitalized software costs is summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
Fiscal Year EndedMarch 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Beginning of the year
  
$
15,150
  
 
$
11,546
  

 Capitalized
  
 
13,098
  
 
 
10,695
  

 Amortization
  
 
(8,254
) 
 
 
(7,091
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 End of the year
  
$
19,994
  
 
$
15,150
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The following table represents the remaining estimated amortization of capitalized software costs as of March 31, 2012:
  








 For the year ended March 31,
  




 2013
  
$
9,088
  

 2014
  
 
7,071
  

 2015
  
 
3,609
  

 2016
  
 
226
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
19,994
  


  
  
  
 

  95 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
9.    Composition of Certain Financial Statement Captions 
Accounts receivable include amounts related to maintenance and services that were billed but not yet rendered at each period end.
Undelivered maintenance and services are included as a component of the deferred revenue balance on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.   












 
  
March 31,2012
 
 
March 31,2011
 

 Accounts receivable, excluding undelivered software, maintenance and services
  
$
100,054
  
 
$
90,487
  

 Undelivered software, maintenance and implementation services billed in advance, included in deferred revenue
  
 
54,183
  
 
 
56,002
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accounts receivable, gross
  
 
154,237
  
 
 
146,489
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
(8,481
) 
 
 
(6,717
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accounts receivable, net
  
$
145,756
  
 
$
139,772
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Inventories are summarized as follows:   












 
  
March 31,2012
 
  
March 31,2011
 

 Computer systems and components
  
$
3,709
  
  
$
1,925
  

 Miscellaneous parts and supplies
  
 
6
  
  
 
8
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Inventories
  
$
3,715
  
  
$
1,933
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Equipment and improvements are summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
March 31,2012
 
 
March 31,2011
 

 Computer equipment
  
$
24,936
  
 
$
23,567
  

 Furniture and fixtures
  
 
6,358
  
 
 
5,861
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
4,906
  
 
 
4,434
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
36,200
  
 
 
33,862
  

 Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(18,359
) 
 
 
(21,263
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equipment and improvements, net
  
$
17,841
  
 
$
12,599
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Current and non-current deferred revenue are summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
March 31,2012
 
  
March 31,2011
 

 Maintenance
  
$
12,742
  
  
$
11,108
  

 Implementation services
  
 
55,235
  
  
 
52,197
  

 Annual license services
  
 
11,730
  
  
 
10,127
  

 Undelivered software and other
  
 
3,401
  
  
 
3,263
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred revenue
  
$
83,108
  
  
$
76,695
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred revenue, net of current
  
$
1,293
  
  
$
1,099
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  96 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Accrued compensation and related benefits are summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
March 31,2012
 
  
March 31,2011
 

 Payroll, bonus and commission
  
$
4,890
  
  
$
5,014
  

 Vacation
  
 
6,980
  
  
 
5,233
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accrued compensation and related benefits
  
$
11,870
  
  
$
10,247
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Other current and non-current liabilities are summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
March 31,2012
 
  
March 31,2011
 

 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions
  
$
5,482
  
  
$
13,658
  

 Accrued EDI expense
  
 
2,588
  
  
 
2,801
  

 Accrued royalties
  
 
1,974
  
  
 
1,752
  

 Care services liabilities
  
 
1,962
  
  
 
3,787
  

 Customer deposits
  
 
1,297
  
  
 
962
  

 Self insurance reserve
  
 
934
  
  
 
475
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
610
  
  
 
437
  

 Sales tax payable
  
 
527
  
  
 
589
  

 Outside commission payable
  
 
520
  
  
 
599
  

 Accrued travel
  
 
509
  
  
 
1,026
  

 Other accrued expenses
  
 
3,165
  
  
 
3,230
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other current liabilities
  
$
19,568
  
  
$
29,316
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Contingent consideration related to acquisitions
  
$
2,989
  
  
$
—
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
2,476
  
  
 
2,387
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
137
  
  
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other non-current liabilities
  
$
5,602
  
  
$
2,409
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

10.    Income Tax 
During the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, the Company recognized federal research and development tax credits
of $1,055, $927 and $605, respectively, and state research and development tax credits of approximately $165, $119 and $129, respectively. Due to the expiration of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) statute related to research and
development credits on December 31, 2011, the Company’s research and development credits claimed for the year ended March 31, 2012 represent credits for the nine-month period from April 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011.
 The Company also claimed the qualified production activities deduction under Section 199 of the Internal Revenue Code
(“IRC”) for $10,025, $8,134, and $4,133 during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The research and development credits and the qualified production activities income deduction calculated by the Company
involve certain assumptions and judgments regarding qualification of expenses under the relevant tax code provisions. 
  97 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following components: 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal taxes
  
$
36,109
  
 
$
28,979
  
 
$
23,750
  

 State taxes
  
 
8,614
  
 
 
6,501
  
 
 
5,043
  

 Foreign taxes
  
 
73
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current taxes
  
 
44,796
  
 
 
35,480
  
 
 
28,793
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal taxes
  
$
(3,571
) 
 
$
(2,168
) 
 
$
(768
) 

 State taxes
  
 
(502
) 
 
 
(502
) 
 
 
(186
) 

 Foreign taxes
  
 
(73
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred taxes
  
 
(4,146
) 
 
 
(2,670
) 
 
 
(954
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Provision for income taxes
  
$
40,650
  
 
$
32,810
  
 
$
27,839
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The provision for income taxes differs from the amount computed at the federal statutory rate as follows: 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year EndedMarch 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal income tax statutory rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 Increase (decrease) resulting from:
  



 



 




 State income taxes, net of Federal benefit
  
 
4.5
  
 
 
4.1
  
 
 
4.3
  

 Research and development tax credits
  
 
(0.9
) 
 
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
(0.9
) 

 Qualified production activities income deduction
  
 
(3.0
) 
 
 
(3.0
) 
 
 
(2.0
) 

 Other
  
 
(0.6
) 
 
 
(0.3
) 
 
 
0.1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective income tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
34.8
% 
 
 
36.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  98 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The net deferred tax assets and liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
consist of the following:   












 
  
March 31,2012
 
 
March 31,2011
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Deferred revenue
  
$
8,618
  
 
$
5,715
  

 Inventory valuation
  
 
113
  
 
 
122
  

 Purchased in-process research and development
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Accrued compensation and benefits
  
 
3,788
  
 
 
3,180
  

 Deferred compensation
  
 
1,455
  
 
 
1,078
  

 State income taxes
  
 
255
  
 
 
452
  

 Compensatory stock option expense
  
 
1,828
  
 
 
1,759
  

 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
4,235
  
 
 
2,931
  

 Other
  
 
4,813
  
 
 
1,071
  

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
25,105
  
 
 
16,308
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Accelerated depreciation
  
$
(2,319
) 
 
$
(2,181
) 

 Capitalized software
  
 
(7,797
) 
 
 
(5,913
) 

 Intangibles assets
  
 
(7,307
) 
 
 
(6,132
) 

 Prepaid expense
  
 
(2,979
) 
 
 
(3,069
) 

 Other
  
 
73
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(20,329
) 
 
 
(17,295
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets (liabilities), net
  
$
4,776
  
 
$
(987
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The deferred tax assets and liabilities have been shown net in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets based on the long-term
or short-term nature of the items that give rise to the deferred amount. No valuation allowance has been made against the deferred tax assets as management expects to receive the full benefit of the assets recorded. 
Uncertain tax positions  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, which is recorded in income taxes payable in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet, is as follows: 
 








 Balance at March 31, 2010
  
$
 656
  

 Additions for prior year tax positions
  
 
34
  

 Reductions for prior year tax positions
  
 
(18
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at March 31, 2011
  
$
672
  

 Additions for prior year tax positions
  
 
26
  

 Reductions for prior year tax positions
  
 
(285
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at March 31, 2012
  
$
413
  


  
  
  
 

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefit that, if recognized, would decrease the income tax provision is $413. 
  99 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Company’s continuing practice is to recognize estimated interest and/or penalties related
to income tax matters in general and administrative expenses. The Company had approximately $75 and $83 of accrued interest related to income tax matters at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. No penalties were accrued. 
The Company’s income tax returns filed for tax years 2009 through 2011 and 2008 through 2011 are subject to examination by the federal and
state taxing authorities, respectively. The Company is currently under examination by the IRS and is under examination by two state income tax authorities. The Company does not anticipate that total unrecognized tax benefits will significantly
change due to the settlement of audits or the expiration of statute of limitations within the next twelve months. 
11.    Employee Benefit Plans 
The Company has a 401(k) plan available to substantially all of its employees. Participating employees may defer up to the IRS
limit based on the IRC per year. The annual contribution is determined by a formula set by the Company’s Board of Directors and may include matching and/or discretionary contributions. The amount of the Company match is discretionary and
subject to change. The retirement plans may be amended or discontinued at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Contributions of $630, $479 and $371 were made by the Company to the 401(k) plan for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively.  The Company has a deferred compensation plan (the “Deferral Plan”) for the benefit of those employees who
qualify for inclusion. Participating employees may defer up to 75% of their salary and 100% of their annual bonus for a Deferral Plan year. In addition, the Company may, but is not required to, make contributions into the Deferral Plan on behalf of
participating employees, and the amount of the Company match is discretionary and subject to change. Each employee’s deferrals together with earnings thereon are accrued as part of the long-term liabilities of the Company. Investment decisions
are made by each participating employee from a family of mutual funds. Deferred compensation liability was $3,498 and $2,488 at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. To offset this liability, the Company has purchased life insurance policies
on some of the participants. The Company is the owner and beneficiary of the policies and the cash values are intended to produce cash needed to help make the benefit payments to employees when they retire or otherwise leave the Company. The Company
intends to hold the life insurance policy until the death of the plan participant. The net cash surrender value of the life insurance policies for deferred compensation was $2,959 and $2,953 at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The values
of the life insurance policies and the related Company obligation are included on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in long-term other assets and long-term deferred compensation, respectively. The Company made contributions of $66, $33
and $48 to the Deferral Plan for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The Company has a voluntary employee
stock contribution plan for the benefit of full-time employees. The plan is designed to allow qualified employees to acquire shares of the Company’s common stock through automatic payroll deduction. Each eligible employee may authorize the
withholding of up to 10% of his or her gross payroll each pay period to be used to purchase shares on the open market by a broker designated by the Company. In addition, the Company will match 5% of each employee’s contribution and will pay all
brokerage commissions and fees in connection with each purchase. The amount of the Company match is discretionary and subject to change. The plan is not intended to be an employee benefit plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974, and is therefore not required to comply with that Act. Contributions of approximately $47, $39 and $35 were made by the Company for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  100 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
12.    Share-Based Awards 
Employee Stock Option Plans  In September 1998, the Company’s shareholders approved a stock option plan (the “1998 Plan”) under which 8,000,000 shares of common stock were reserved for the issuance of options. The 1998 Plan
provides that employees, directors and consultants of the Company may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors or a duly designated compensation committee, be granted options to purchase shares of common stock. The exercise price of each option
granted was determined by the Board of Directors at the date of grant, and options under the 1998 Plan expire no later than ten years from the grant date. Options granted will generally become exercisable in accordance with the terms of the
agreement pursuant to which they were granted. Certain option grants to directors became exercisable three months from the date of grant. Upon an acquisition of the Company by merger or asset sale, each outstanding option may be subject to
accelerated vesting under certain circumstances. The 1998 Plan terminated on December 31, 2007. As of March 31, 2012, there were 46,488 outstanding options related to the 1998 Plan. 
In October 2005, the Company’s shareholders approved a stock option and incentive plan (the “2005 Plan”) under which 4,800,000 shares
of common stock were reserved for the issuance of awards, including stock options, incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, unrestricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares,
performance units (including performance options) and other share-based awards. The 2005 Plan provides that employees, directors and consultants of the Company may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors or a duly designated compensation
committee, be granted awards to acquire shares of common stock. The exercise price of each option award shall be determined by the Board of Directors at the date of grant in accordance with the terms of the 2005 Plan, and under the 2005 Plan awards
expire no later than ten years from the grant date. Options granted will generally become exercisable in accordance with the terms of the agreement pursuant to which they were granted. Upon an acquisition of the Company by merger or asset sale, each
outstanding option may be subject to accelerated vesting under certain circumstances. The 2005 Plan terminates on May 25, 2015, unless terminated earlier by the Board of Directors. As of March 31, 2012, there were 941,849 outstanding
options and 3,262,642 shares available for future grant related to the 2005 Plan. 
  101 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
A summary of stock option transactions during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010
is as follows:   




















 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePriceper Share
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife (years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
(In thousands)
 

 Outstanding, March 31, 2009
  
 
1,640,164
  
 
$
16.20
  
  




 Granted
  
 
578,968
  
 
$
29.22
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(475,206
) 
 
$
12.32
  
  



  
$
8,254
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding, March 31, 2010
  
 
1,743,926
  
 
$
21.58
  
  




 Granted
  
 
110,000
  
 
$
29.15
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(307,428
) 
 
$
18.60
  
  



  
$
7,093
  

 Forfeited/Canceled
  
 
(148,942
) 
 
$
27.50
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding, March 31, 2011
  
 
1,397,556
  
 
$
22.20
  
  
 
3.9
  
  




 Granted
  
 
459,400
  
 
$
43.04
  
  
 
7.2
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(697,157
) 
 
$
18.34
  
  
 
1.3
  
  
$
17,698
  

 Forfeited/Canceled
  
 
(171,462
) 
 
$
36.66
  
  
 
6.4
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding, March 31, 2012
  
 
988,337
  
 
$
32.09
  
  
 
5.4
  
  
$
11,499
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and expected to vest, March 31, 2012
  
 
953,153
  
 
$
32.07
  
  
 
5.4
  
  
$
11,113
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Exercisable, March 31, 2012
  
 
210,018
  
 
$
24.88
  
  
 
3.8
  
  
$
3,959
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




The Company utilizes the Black-Scholes valuation model for estimating the fair value of share-based compensation with the
following assumptions:   
















 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2012
 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2011
 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2010
 

 Expected life
  
 
4.3 years
  
  
 
4.2 years
  
  
 
4.4 - 4.8 years
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
41.2%
  
  
 
42.6% - 44.7%
  
  
 
45.5% - 47.7%
  

 Expected dividends
  
 
1.6%
  
  
 
1.9% - 2.2%
  
  
 
1.9% - 2.2%
  

 Risk-free rate
  
 
1.8%
  
  
 
1.5% - 2.1%
  
  
 
0.8% - 2.4%
  

The weighted-average grant date fair value of stock options granted during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was
$13.32, $9.24 and $9.65 per share, respectively.  The Company issues new shares to satisfy option exercises. Based on historical
experience of option cancellations, the Company has estimated an annualized forfeiture rate of 4.1%, 3.6% and 1.7% for employee options for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and 0.0% for director options for the years ended
March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Forfeiture rates will be adjusted over the requisite service period when actual forfeitures differ, or are expected to differ, from the estimate. 
During the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, a total of 459,400, 110,000 and 578,968 options, respectively, were granted under the
2005 Plan at an exercise price equal to the 
  102 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant. A summary of stock options granted under the 2005 Plan during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as
follows:   




















 Option Grant Date
  
Number ofShares
 
  
Exercise Price
 
  
VestingTerms(1)
 
  
Expires
 

 May 31, 2011
  
 
459,400
  
  
$
43.04
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
May 31, 2019
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  




 Fiscal year 2012 option grants
  
 
459,400
  
  



  



  




 November 29, 2010
  
 
20,000
  
  
$
32.16
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
November 29, 2018
  

 August 3, 2010
  
 
10,000
  
  
$
27.62
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
August 3, 2018
  

 June 4, 2010
  
 
50,000
  
  
$
28.15
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
June 4, 2018
  

 June 2, 2010
  
 
30,000
  
  
$
29.31
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
June 2, 2018
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  




 Fiscal year 2011 option grants
  
 
110,000
  
  



  



  




 February 16, 2010
  
 
236,118
  
  
$
28.48
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
February 16, 2018
  

 February 16, 2010
  
 
6,000
  
  
$
28.48
  
  
 
Two years
  
  
 
February 16, 2013
  

 December 7, 2009
  
 
126,850
  
  
$
30.15
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
December 7, 2017
  

 November 30, 2009
  
 
150,000
  
  
$
29.75
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
November 30, 2017
  

 September 17, 2009
  
 
60,000
  
  
$
29.02
  
  
 
Five years
  
  
 
September 17, 2017
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  




 Fiscal year 2010 option grants
  
 
578,968
  
  



  



  



  


(1)
Options vest in equal annual installments on each grant anniversary date beginning one year after the grant date. 
Performance-Based Awards  On May 25, 2011, the Board of Directors approved its fiscal year 2012 equity incentive program for certain employees to be awarded options to purchase the Company’s common stock. The maximum number of
options available under the equity incentive program plan is 600,000, of which 300,000 are reserved for the Company’s named executive officers and 300,000 for non-executive employees of the Company. Under the program, executives are eligible to
receive options based on meeting certain target increases in EPS performance and revenue growth during fiscal year 2012. Non-executive employees are also eligible to receive options based on satisfying certain management established criteria and
recommendations of senior management. The options shall be issued pursuant to one of the Company’s shareholder approved option plans, have an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company’s shares on the date of grant, a term of
eight years and vesting in five equal annual installments commencing one year following the date of grant.  Compensation expense
associated with the performance based awards under the Company’s 2012 incentive plan are initially based on the number of options expected to vest after assessing the probability that certain performance criteria will be met. Cumulative
adjustments are recorded quarterly to reflect subsequent changes in the estimated outcome of performance-related conditions. The Company utilized the Black-Scholes option valuation model with the assumptions below and recorded stock compensation
expense related to the performance based awards of $616, $788 and $35 for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
















 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2012
 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2011
 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2010
 

 Expected life
  
 
4.3 years
  
  
 
4.3 years
  
  
 
4.4 years
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
41.2% - 42.2%
  
  
 
41.6%
  
  
 
45.5%
  

 Expected dividends
  
 
1.4% - 1.9%
  
  
 
1.5%
  
  
 
2.2%
  

 Risk-free rate
  
 
0.8% - 1.8%
  
  
 
2.2%
  
  
 
2.3%
  

  103 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Non-vested stock option award activity, including employee stock options and performance-based
awards, during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is summarized as follows:   












 
  
Non-VestedNumber ofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Valueper Share
 

 Outstanding, March 31, 2009
  
 
930,690
  
 
$
5.87
  

 Granted
  
 
578,968
  
 
$
9.65
  

 Vested
  
 
(287,986
) 
 
$
6.02
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding, March 31, 2010
  
 
1,221,672
  
 
$
7.63
  

 Granted
  
 
110,000
  
 
$
9.24
  

 Vested
  
 
(379,694
) 
 
$
6.43
  

 Forfeited/Canceled
  
 
(148,942
) 
 
$
9.41
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding, March 31, 2011
  
 
803,036
  
 
$
8.08
  

 Granted
  
 
459,400
  
 
$
13.32
  

 Vested
  
 
(312,655
) 
 
$
7.22
  

 Forfeited/Canceled
  
 
(171,462
) 
 
$
11.55
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding, March 31, 2012
  
 
778,319
  
 
$
10.76
  


  
  
  
 
 




As of March 31, 2012, $6,053 of total unrecognized compensation costs related to stock options is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 3.1 years. This amount does not include the cost of new options that may be granted in future periods or any changes in the Company’s forfeiture percentage. The total fair value of options vested during
the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $2,256, $2,442 and $1,732, respectively.  Restricted Stock Units 
On May 27, 2009, the Board of Directors approved its Outside Director Compensation Plan, whereby each non-employee director is to be awarded
shares of restricted stock units upon election or re-election to the Board of Directors. The restricted stock units are awarded under the 2005 Plan. Such restricted stock units vest in two equal, annual installments on the first and second
anniversaries of the grant date and are nontransferable for one year following vesting. Upon each vesting of the award, one share of common stock shall be issued for each restricted stock unit. The weighted-average grant date fair value for the
restricted stock units was estimated using the market price of the common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of these restricted stock units is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. 
As of March 31, 2012, 56,960 restricted stock units have been awarded under the Outside Director Compensation Plan from inception to date and
approximately $540, $427 and $136 of compensation expense related to these restricted stock units was recorded for the years ended 
  104 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Restricted stock units activity for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is summarized as follows: 
 












 
  
Number ofShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant-DateFair Valueper Share
 

 Outstanding, March 31, 2009
  
 
—
  
 




 Granted
  
 
16,000
  
 
$
26.93
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding, March 31, 2010
  
 
16,000
  
 
$
26.93
  

 Granted
  
 
18,292
  
 
$
27.31
  

 Vested
  
 
(11,396
) 
 
$
27.22
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding, March 31, 2011
  
 
22,896
  
 
$
27.09
  

 Granted
  
 
22,668
  
 
$
39.75
  

 Vested
  
 
(15,563
) 
 
$
27.51
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Outstanding, March 31, 2012
  
 
30,001
  
 
$
36.32
  


  
  
  
 
 




As of March 31, 2012, $729 of total unrecognized compensation costs related to restricted stock units is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.7 years. This amount does not include the cost of new restricted stock units that may be granted in future periods. 
13. Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies 
Rental Commitments 
The Company leases facilities and offices under irrevocable operating lease agreements expiring at various dates with rent escalation clauses. Rent
expense related to these leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Rent expense for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $4,330, $3,964 and $4,264, respectively. Rental commitments under these agreements
are as follows:   








 For the year ended March 31,
  




 2013
  
$
6,640
  

 2014
  
 
6,227
  

 2015
  
 
5,504
  

 2016
  
 
4,814
  

 2017 and beyond
  
 
1,855
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
25,040
  


  
  
  
 

Commitments and Guarantees  Software license agreements in both the QSI Dental Division and NextGen Division include a performance guarantee that the Company’s software products will substantially operate as described in the applicable
program documentation for a period of 365 days after delivery. To date, the Company has not incurred any significant costs associated with its performance guarantee or other related warranties and does not expect to incur significant warranty costs
in the future. Therefore, no accrual has been made for potential costs associated with these warranties. Certain arrangements also include performance guarantees related to response time, availability for operational use, and other
performance-related guarantees. Certain arrangements also include penalties in the form of maintenance credits should the performance of the software fail to meet the performance guarantees. To date, the

  105 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Company has not incurred any significant costs associated with these warranties and does not expect to incur significant warranty costs in the future. Therefore, no accrual has been made for
potential costs associated with these warranties.  The Company has historically offered short-term rights of return in certain sales
arrangements. If the Company is able to estimate returns for these types of arrangements and all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, revenue is recognized and these arrangements are recorded in the consolidated financial
statements. If the Company is unable to estimate returns for these types of arrangements, revenue is not recognized in the consolidated financial statements until the rights of return expire, provided also, that all other criteria of revenue
recognition have been met.  Certain standard sales agreements contain a money back guarantee providing for a performance guarantee that
is already part of the software license agreement as well as training and support. The money back guarantee also warrants that the software will remain robust and flexible to allow participation in the federal health incentive programs. The
specific elements of the performance guarantee pertain to aspects of the software, which the Company has already tested and confirmed to consistently meet using the Company’s existing software without any modifications or enhancements. To date,
the Company has not incurred any costs associated with this guarantee and does not expect to incur significant costs in the future. Therefore, no accrual has been made for potential costs associated with this guarantee. 
The Company’s standard sales agreements in the NextGen Division contain an indemnification provision pursuant to which it shall indemnify, hold
harmless, and reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with any United States patent, any copyright or other intellectual property infringement claim by any third-party with respect to
its software. The QSI Dental Division arrangements occasionally utilize this type of language as well. As the Company has not incurred any significant costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification agreements, the Company
believes that its estimated exposure on these agreements is currently minimal. Accordingly, the Company has no liabilities recorded for these indemnification obligations.  The Company has entered into marketing assistance agreements with existing users of the Company’s products which provide the opportunity for those users to earn commissions if they host specific site visits
upon the Company’s request for prospective clients that directly result in a purchase of the Company’s software by the visiting prospects. Amounts earned by existing users under this program are treated as a selling expense in the period
when earned. 
14.    Operating Segment Information 
The Company has four reportable segments that are evaluated regularly by its chief operating decision maker, or decision making
group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.  The accounting policies of the Company’s operating
segments are the same as those described in Note 2, except that the disaggregated financial results of the segments reflect allocation of certain functional expense categories consistent with the basis and manner in which Company management
internally disaggregates financial information for the purpose of assisting in making internal operating decisions.  Certain corporate
overhead costs, such as executive and accounting department personnel-related expenses, are not allocated to the individual segments by management. 
  106 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Operating segment data is as follows: 
 
















 
  
Fiscal Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
19,596
  
 
$
19,966
  
 
$
17,128
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
325,467
  
 
 
266,546
  
 
 
228,730
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
34,463
  
 
 
17,898
  
 
 
2,891
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
50,309
  
 
 
48,953
  
 
 
43,062
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated revenue
  
$
429,835
  
 
$
353,363
  
 
$
291,811
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income:
  



 



 




 QSI Dental Division
  
$
3,352
  
 
$
4,672
  
 
$
3,460
  

 NextGen Division
  
 
127,032
  
 
 
104,391
  
 
 
87,432
  

 Hospital Solutions Division
  
 
10,417
  
 
 
5,362
  
 
 
676
  

 RCM Services Division
  
 
5,835
  
 
 
4,235
  
 
 
2,314
  

 Unallocated corporate expense(1)
  
 
(30,437
) 
 
 
(24,568
) 
 
 
(18,158
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated operating income
  
$
116,199
  
 
$
94,092
  
 
$
75,724
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Unallocated corporate expense includes eliminations relating to QSIH revenues and related expenses included in the results of operating segments. QSIH was formed in January 2011
and eliminations were not significant for the years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. 
Management evaluates performance based upon stand-alone segment operating income. Because the Company does not evaluate
performance based upon return on assets at the operating segment level, assets are not tracked internally by segment. Therefore, segment asset information is not presented. 
15.    Subsequent Events 
On May 24, 2012, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.175 per share on the Company’s
outstanding shares of common stock, payable to shareholders of record as of June 15, 2012 with an expected distribution date on or about July 3, 2012.  On April 16, 2012, the Company entered into a Merger Agreement, with Matrix Management Solutions (“Matrix”). The purchase price consisted of cash and stock consideration totaling $12.3 million plus
additional contingent consideration to be made over an 18-month period as defined in the Agreement, not to exceed $4.0 million. Matrix will operate under the Company’s RCM Services Division. 
On May 1, 2012, the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement, with The Poseidon Group (“Poseidon”). The purchase price
consisted of cash consideration totaling $2.5 million. Poseidon will operate under the Company’s Hospital Solutions Division. 
  107 


Table of Contents
QUALITY SYSTEMS, INC. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
16.    Selected Quarterly Operating Results 
The following table presents quarterly unaudited consolidated financial information for the eight quarters preceding
March 31, 2012. Such information is presented on the same basis as the annual information presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In management’s opinion, this information reflects all adjustments that are
necessary for a fair presentation of the results for these periods.   




































 
 
Quarter Ended
 

  
 
6/30/2010
 
 
9/30/2010
 
 
12/31/2010
 
 
3/31/2011
 
 
6/30/2011
 
 
9/30/2011
 
 
12/31/2011
 
 
3/31/2012
 

 
 
(Unaudited)
 

 Revenues:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Software, hardware and supplies
 
$
24,756
  
 
$
20,375
  
 
$
29,675
  
 
$
31,708
  
 
$
28,911
  
 
$
31,860
  
 
$
35,074
  
 
$
26,562
  

 Implementation and training services
 
 
4,308
  
 
 
4,499
  
 
 
4,262
  
 
 
4,946
  
 
 
5,472
  
 
 
6,094
  
 
 
6,555
  
 
 
8,270
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 System sales
 
 
29,064
  
 
 
24,874
  
 
 
33,937
  
 
 
36,654
  
 
 
34,383
  
 
 
37,954
  
 
 
41,629
  
 
 
34,832
  

 Maintenance
 
 
25,536
  
 
 
27,529
  
 
 
27,908
  
 
 
29,046
  
 
 
31,502
  
 
 
35,214
  
 
 
36,245
  
 
 
35,871
  

 Electronic data interchange services
 
 
9,764
  
 
 
10,142
  
 
 
10,360
  
 
 
10,756
  
 
 
12,092
  
 
 
11,985
  
 
 
12,101
  
 
 
13,081
  

 Revenue cycle management and related services
 
 
10,772
  
 
 
11,175
  
 
 
11,496
  
 
 
11,622
  
 
 
11,881
  
 
 
11,142
  
 
 
11,147
  
 
 
11,402
  

 Other services
 
 
7,791
  
 
 
7,737
  
 
 
8,170
  
 
 
9,030
  
 
 
10,584
  
 
 
11,339
  
 
 
11,643
  
 
 
13,808
  

 Maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services
 
 
53,863
  
 
 
56,583
  
 
 
57,934
  
 
 
60,454
  
 
 
66,059
  
 
 
69,680
  
 
 
71,136
  
 
 
74,162
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
 
82,927
  
 
 
81,457
  
 
 
91,871
  
 
 
97,108
  
 
 
100,442
  
 
 
107,634
  
 
 
112,765
  
 
 
108,994
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cost of revenue:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Software, hardware and supplies
 
 
6,212
  
 
 
4,696
  
 
 
5,667
  
 
 
3,204
  
 
 
4,614
  
 
 
4,187
  
 
 
4,622
  
 
 
4,976
  

 Implementation and training services
 
 
2,990
  
 
 
3,475
  
 
 
3,677
  
 
 
4,868
  
 
 
4,075
  
 
 
5,050
  
 
 
5,994
  
 
 
6,179
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of system sales
 
 
9,202
  
 
 
8,171
  
 
 
9,344
  
 
 
8,072
  
 
 
8,689
  
 
 
9,237
  
 
 
10,616
  
 
 
11,155
  

 Maintenance
 
 
3,454
  
 
 
3,238
  
 
 
3,381
  
 
 
2,875
  
 
 
3,854
  
 
 
3,994
  
 
 
4,412
  
 
 
4,844
  

 Electronic data interchange services
 
 
6,709
  
 
 
6,773
  
 
 
6,908
  
 
 
7,321
  
 
 
7,962
  
 
 
7,964
  
 
 
7,890
  
 
 
8,606
  

 Revenue cycle management and related services
 
 
8,145
  
 
 
8,222
  
 
 
8,715
  
 
 
8,733
  
 
 
8,826
  
 
 
8,456
  
 
 
8,405
  
 
 
8,608
  

 Other services
 
 
4,349
  
 
 
3,724
  
 
 
3,981
  
 
 
6,165
  
 
 
5,597
  
 
 
6,369
  
 
 
7,011
  
 
 
8,728
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of maintenance, EDI, RCM and other services
 
 
22,657
  
 
 
21,957
  
 
 
22,985
  
 
 
25,094
  
 
 
26,239
  
 
 
26,783
  
 
 
27,718
  
 
 
30,786
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of revenue
 
 
31,859
  
 
 
30,128
  
 
 
32,329
  
 
 
33,166
  
 
 
34,928
  
 
 
36,020
  
 
 
38,334
  
 
 
41,941
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
 
 
51,068
  
 
 
51,329
  
 
 
59,542
  
 
 
63,942
  
 
 
65,514
  
 
 
71,614
  
 
 
74,431
  
 
 
67,053
  

 Operating expenses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
26,238
  
 
 
24,829
  
 
 
27,958
  
 
 
29,285
  
 
 
29,386
  
 
 
32,169
  
 
 
33,096
  
 
 
34,195
  

 Research and development costs
 
 
5,456
  
 
 
5,232
  
 
 
5,358
  
 
 
5,751
  
 
 
6,827
  
 
 
7,358
  
 
 
8,277
  
 
 
8,907
  

 Amortization of acquired intangible assets
 
 
347
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
482
  
 
 
520
  
 
 
543
  
 
 
653
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
 
 
32,041
  
 
 
30,506
  
 
 
33,761
  
 
 
35,481
  
 
 
36,695
  
 
 
40,047
  
 
 
41,916
  
 
 
43,755
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income from operations
 
 
19,027
  
 
 
20,823
  
 
 
25,781
  
 
 
28,461
  
 
 
28,819
  
 
 
31,567
  
 
 
32,515
  
 
 
23,298
  

 Interest income
 
 
60
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
82
  
 
 
75
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
35
  

 Other income (expense), net
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
65
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
(144
) 
 
 
(218
) 
 
 
261
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before provision for income taxes
 
 
19,081
  
 
 
21,017
  
 
 
25,836
  
 
 
28,482
  
 
 
28,863
  
 
 
31,498
  
 
 
32,352
  
 
 
23,594
  

 Provision for income taxes
 
 
6,989
  
 
 
7,587
  
 
 
8,305
  
 
 
9,929
  
 
 
9,880
  
 
 
11,002
  
 
 
11,247
  
 
 
8,521
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
 
$
12,092
  
 
$
13,430
  
 
$
17,531
  
 
$
18,553
  
 
$
18,983
  
 
$
20,496
  
 
$
21,105
  
 
$
15,073
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income per share:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Basic*
 
$
0.21
  
 
$
0.23
  
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
0.32
  
 
$
0.33
  
 
$
0.35
  
 
$
0.36
  
 
$
0.26
  

 Diluted*
 
$
0.21
  
 
$
0.23
  
 
$
0.30
  
 
$
0.32
  
 
$
0.32
  
 
$
0.35
  
 
$
0.36
  
 
$
0.25
  

 Weighted-average shares outstanding:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
 
57,792
  
 
 
57,870
  
 
 
57,956
  
 
 
58,010
  
 
 
58,362
  
 
 
58,511
  
 
 
58,847
  
 
 
59,048
  

 Diluted
 
 
58,114
  
 
 
58,156
  
 
 
58,280
  
 
 
58,404
  
 
 
58,800
  
 
 
58,902
  
 
 
59,128
  
 
 
59,232
  

 Dividends declared per common share
 
$
0.150
  
 
$
0.150
  
 
$
0.150
  
 
$
0.175
  
 
$
0.175
  
 
$
0.175
  
 
$
0.175
  
 
$
0.175
  
  


*
Quarterly EPS may not sum to annual EPS due to rounding 
  108 


Table of Contents
 
SCHEDULE
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
 




















 
  
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 

 For the year ended
  
Balance atBeginning ofYear
 
  
AdditionsCharged to Costsand Expenses
 
  
Deductions
 
 
Balance atEnd ofYear
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 March 31, 2012
  
$
6,717
  
  
$
5,715
  
  
$
(3,951
) 
 
$
8,481
  

 March 31, 2011
  
$
4,489
  
  
$
3,780
  
  
$
(1,552
) 
 
$
6,717
  

 March 31, 2010
  
$
3,877
  
  
$
3,465
  
  
$
(2,853
) 
 
$
4,489
  
  




















 
  
Allowance for Inventory Obsolescence
 

 For the year ended
  
Balance atBeginning ofYear
 
  
AdditionsCharged to Costsand Expenses
 
  
Deductions
 
  
Balance atEnd ofYear
 

 
  
(In thousands)
 

 March 31, 2012
  
$
264
  
  
$
43
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
307
  

 March 31, 2011
  
$
237
  
  
$
27
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
264
  

 March 31, 2010
  
$
210
  
  
$
27
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
237
  

  109 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO EXHIBITS ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT 
 






 Exhibit
Number
  
 Description




21
  
List of subsidiaries.




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm — PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.




31.1
  
Certification of Principal Executive Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.




31.2
  
Certification of Principal Financial Officer Required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.




32.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002.




101.INS*
  
XBRL Instance




101.SCH*
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema




101.CAL*
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation




101.DEF*
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document




101.LAB*
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label




101.PRE*
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation
  


*
XBRL information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of section 11 or 12 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1933, as
amended, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these section. 
  110 



