
10-K
1
quantum_10k.htm
ANNUAL REPORT









UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIONWashington, D.C. 20549FORM 10-K 


x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

 
     
For the fiscal year ended March 31,
      2012



OR

c

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the transition
      period from ______ to
______
Commission file number
1-13449 
QUANTUM
CORPORATION(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter) 


Delaware
94-2665054

(State or other
      jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer
      Identification No.)

 

1650 Technology Drive,
      Suite 800, San Jose, California
95110

(Address of principal
      executive offices)
(Zip
  Code)

Registrant’s
      telephone number, including area code: (408) 944-4000

Securities
      registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:


Title of each class
     
Name of each exchange on which registered

QUANTUM CORPORATION COMMON
      STOCK

NEW YORK STOCK
  EXCHANGE
Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:NONE
Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the
Securities Act. YES ¨   NO x
Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.
YES ¨   NO
x
Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
YES x   NO ¨
Indicate by checkmark whether the
registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if
any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit
and post such files). YES x   NO ¨
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this
chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. x
Indicate by
checkmark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.


Large accelerated
      filer       ¨
Accelerated
      filer       x
Non-accelerated
      filer       ¨
Smaller Reporting
      Company       ¨
Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
 YES ¨   NO x
The aggregate market value of Quantum
Corporation’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant was approximately $248.4 million on September 30, 2011 the last
day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, based on
the closing sales price of the registrant’s common stock on that date on the New
York Stock Exchange. For purposes of this disclosure, shares of common stock
held by persons who hold more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock
and shares held by officers and directors of the registrant have been excluded
in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of
affiliate status is not necessarily conclusive for other purposes.
As of the close of business on June 8,
2012, there were approximately 236.7 million shares of the registrant’s common
stock issued and outstanding. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The registrant’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on August 15, 2012,
which the registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this report, is
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K to the extent stated
herein.


 


INDEX




     

PageNumber

PART I

Item 1

Business
1

Item 1A

Risk Factors
9

Item 1B

Unresolved Staff
      Comments
21

Item 2

Properties
22

Item 3

Legal
Proceedings
22

Item 4

Mine Safety
      Disclosures
22

PART II

Item 5

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
      Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
23

Item 6

Selected Financial
      Data
24

Item 7

Management’s Discussion
      and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
25

Item 7A

Quantitative and
      Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
42

Item 8

Financial Statements and
      Supplementary Data
43

Item 9

Changes in and
      Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
      Disclosure
76

Item 9A

Controls and
      Procedures
76

Item 9B

Other
Information
77

PART III

Item 10
 
Directors, Executive
      Officers and Corporate Governance
77

Item 11

Executive
      Compensation
78

Item 12

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management and Related Stockholder Matters
78

Item 13

Certain Relationships and
      Related Transactions, and Director Independence
78

Item 14

Principal Accounting Fees
      and Services
79

PART IV

Item 15

Exhibits, Financial
      Statement Schedules
79

SIGNATURE
83

POWER OF ATTORNEY
84



PART I 
This report contains forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Forward-looking statements in this report usually contain the words “will,”
“estimate,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “believe,” “project” or similar expressions
and variations or negatives of these words. All such forward-looking statements
including, but not limited to, (1) our goals for future operating performance;
(2) our research and development plans and focuses; (3) our expectation that we
will continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenue from products based
on tape technology; (4) our belief that our existing cash and capital resources
will be sufficient to meet all currently planned expenditures, debt service and
sustain our operations for at least the next 12 months; (5) our expectations
regarding our ongoing efforts to control our cost structure; (6) our belief that
our ultimate liability in any infringement claims made by any third parties
against us will not be material to us and (7) our business goals, objectives,
key focuses, opportunities and prospects which are inherently uncertain as they
are based on management’s expectations and assumptions concerning future events,
and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements, about which we speak only as of the date hereof. As a result, our
actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking statements
contained herein. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
from those described herein include, but are not limited to: (1) the amount of
orders received in future periods; (2) our ability to timely ship our products;
(3) uncertainty regarding information technology spending and the corresponding
uncertainty in the demand for our products and services; (4) our ability to
maintain supplier relationships; (5) general economic, political and fiscal
conditions in the U.S. and internationally, particularly in light of Greek and
EU sovereign debt concerns and the uncertainty in the U.S. regarding fiscal and
tax policies; (6) our ability to successfully introduce new products; (7) our
ability to capitalize on market demand; (8) our ability to achieve anticipated
gross margin levels and (9) those factors discussed under “Risk Factors” in Part
II, Item 1A. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future
performance. We disclaim any obligation to update information in any
forward-looking statement.
ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
Business Description 
Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”, the
“Company”, “us” or “we”), founded in 1980, is a global expert in data protection
and big data management. We provide solutions for storing and protecting
information in physical, virtual, cloud and big data environments that are
designed to help customers be certain they are maximizing the value of their
data over its entire lifecycle. With our solutions, customers can better adapt
in a world of continuing change by keeping and protecting more data for a longer
period of time while reducing costs and increasing return on investment. We work closely
with a broad network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), direct
marketing resellers (“DMRs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and
other suppliers to meet customers’ evolving data protection and big data
management needs. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol QTM.
Our data protection solutions include
DXi® deduplication systems and Scalar® automated tape
libraries that optimize backup and recovery, simplify management and lower cost
and our vmPROTM virtual server backup and disaster recovery offerings
that protect virtual environments while minimizing the impact to servers and
storage. For big data environments, we provide StorNext® tiered
storage and wide area storage solutions designed to help maximize revenue and
results by enabling customers to extract the full value from their digital
assets. In addition, we also offer software for cloud backup and disaster
recovery of physical and virtual servers. We have a full range of services and
the global scale and scope to support our worldwide customer base. 
We are a member of the consortium that
develops and has licensed LTO® media technology to tape media
manufacturing companies. We receive royalty payments for both LTO and
DLT® media technology sold under licensing agreements. We have also
entered into various licensing agreements with respect to our technology,
patents and similar intellectual property which provide licensing revenues in
certain cases and may expand the market for products and solutions using these
technologies.
1


In recent years we have transformed
Quantum through acquisitions and organic growth into a systems and solutions
company. Our strategy is to grow the independent channel for Quantum branded
solutions by offering products with superior performance and value. We plan to
continue to expand and improve our product and solution offerings, with emphasis
on branded disk systems, software solutions, virtual offerings and cloud
solutions.
Industry Background 
Information Technology (“IT”) departments
face an environment of change. There is increasing focus on the economics of
data as these departments not only address continued data growth but also
identify solutions to store more data for longer periods of time as data becomes
more valuable. With new ways to analyze and reuse data for additional revenue
streams, new ideas and operational breakthroughs, IT managers are looking to
ensure the organization can take full advantage of the information and knowledge
from that data. For these reasons, data protection and big data management are
important to businesses and organizations and consistently are reflected as top
priorities in end user research studies. 
Another change that has occurred over the
last several years is the emergence of new architectures and technologies that
reduce costs and increase efficiency. These include data deduplication,
scale-out storage, virtualization and cloud storage. The challenge is that these
technologies can also introduce disruption for IT, so it takes careful planning
and smart solutions to enable organizations to move forward. 
In the face of these changes, IT
departments also confront continued constraints. Resources and budgets remain
tight, which is one of the main reasons reducing data acquisition costs and
ongoing operational costs is a top priority. In addition, even as they look to
capitalize on new technologies and solutions, many IT managers still have to
support legacy environments and applications. Finally, there is often built-in
inertia or risk aversion when it comes to changing architectures or existing
vendors. As a result, there is significant opportunity for storage specialists
such as Quantum to assist organizations through transition.
Products 
Big Data Management and
Archive 
With new digital technologies creating
larger data files that can generate greater business value, there is a growing
need to retain data for progressively longer periods while maintaining
visibility and access to it. IT departments are increasingly focused on managing
this big data. Generally, big data refers to relatively new data types that
produce large files, often measured in petabytes, such as video, imaging and
audio. Big data also refers to large collections of small data, such as retail
purchasing information, underwater photos of the ocean floor and feeds from
traffic cameras that when combined, create meaning and increasingly, competitive
advantage. In addition, in managing big data, organizations are increasingly
recognizing that they need efficient and cost-effective ways to archive it. We
offer StorNext software and appliance-based solutions to address this growing
need for managing and archiving big data.
StorNext Software 
Designed for data-intensive environments,
our StorNext software reduces the time and total cost of managing data for end
users with large data sets and challenging distributed environments. The
StorNext File System software provides high-performance shared access to data
across different networks, operating systems and storage platforms. In addition,
our StorNext Storage ManagerTM software automatically copies and
migrates data between different tiers of storage based on user-defined policies.
The result is a highly scalable, high-performance data management solution
designed to optimize the use of storage while enabling the long-term protection
and recoverability of data. 
Our StorNext software helps businesses
with big data to benefit from workflow efficiencies, automated tiered storage
and policy-based archive management. Designed for open system data-intensive
environments, StorNext software products allow multiple users to rapidly access
a single data set, increasing productivity and storage utilization. They also
transparently move data, reducing storage costs while simultaneously providing
embedded data protection. For several years, organizations within rich media
production and broadcasting, the federal government, life sciences and other
disciplines have utilized our data management software to derive more value from
their data while controlling costs. Many of these customers now rely on our
software as a key technology enabler for their business processes and workflow.

2


StorNext Appliances
Our StorNext appliances leverage the power
of StorNext software and market-leading hardware to offer predictable
high-performance file sharing and archiving in purpose-built configurations of
metadata controllers, expansion appliances and disk, and archive enabled
libraries. They are simple to deploy and architected to deliver scalable,
industry-leading performance, drive lower operational costs and provide a
flexible open system for enabling third party applications. These appliances
also work seamlessly with traditional StorNext software and partner hardware
offerings to provide additional options for building a shared storage area
network (“SAN”) and scale out network-attached storage (“NAS”) environment. They
are intended to serve a wide range of markets, such as film editing, seismic
processing or genome sequencing and balance the highest performance with the
lowest long-term cost for sharing big data files in data intensive operations.

Data Protection 
DXi Disk Systems
Our DXi disk-based backup systems meet the
needs of a broad range of customers, from small businesses and remote offices to
large distributed enterprise data center environments, seeking high speed
recovery and extreme reliability beyond what a tape-only environment can
deliver. These solutions offer functionality normally reserved for enterprise
class data centers, such as data deduplication, virtual tape, snapshot, data
recovery and replication capabilities. Our disk-based backup appliances are
designed for easy implementation and integration into existing environments and
provide industry-leading performance, capacity and price-performance.

Our DXi disk systems use deduplication
technology to expand the amount of backup data users can retain on traditional
disk systems. The result is a cost-effective means for IT departments to store
backup data on disk for months instead of days, providing high-speed restores,
increasing available data recovery points and reducing media management. For
disaster recovery in distributed environments, the DXi-SeriesTM also
makes wide area network (“WAN”) replication practical because of the greatly
reduced bandwidth required with data deduplication. By greatly increasing
effective disk capacity, data deduplication enables users to retain backup data
on fast recovery disk much longer than possible using conventional disk and
significantly reduces the bandwidth needed to move data between sites. We hold a
key patent in one of the most efficient methods of data deduplication, known as
variable-length data deduplication.
Our DXi-Series systems provide a
combination of high performance and advanced functionality. In addition to data
deduplication, the core set of advanced features of the DXi-Series includes a
high performance embedded file system, support for high speed data compression,
asynchronous replication, direct tape creation and built-in monitoring and
diagnostic tools.
vmPRO For Virtual
Environments 
Our virtual environment offerings include
vmPRO software and vmPRO appliances. Our vmPRO software provides virtualization
data protection software with advanced utilities designed to dramatically
improve and simplify virtual data protection in midrange and larger data
centers. It works with our DXi family of deduplication products to accelerate
backup, restore and disaster recovery protection in data center virtual
environments while reducing IT costs. We also offer vmPRO appliances that
provide an integrated data protection solution designed to simplify backups in
virtual environments. These appliances include both backup software and
integrated storage with deduplication in a single solution for small to
medium-size businesses and remote offices. The vmPRO appliances optimize virtual
machines and accelerate performance by filtering out unassigned, expired and
inactive data to reduce overhead on servers, networks and storage. 
Scalar Tape Automation Systems

We are the leading named supplier of tape
automation shipments and we continue to expand features and capabilities of our
tape library offerings to increase storage capacity and improve performance. Our
Scalar tape automation portfolio includes a range of products, from autoloaders
with one tape drive and up to sixteen cartridges to large enterprise-class
libraries which can hold hundreds of drives and thousands of cartridges. Our
tape libraries intelligently manage and protect business critical data in
workgroup, medium size business and enterprise data center environments. With an
emphasis on ease of use, management features and investment optimization, Scalar
tape libraries are designed to grow with business needs. These products
integrate tape drives into a system with automation technology, advanced
connectivity and sophisticated management tools,
including integrated media integrity analysis in tape drives and library
diagnostic systems. We also offer the SuperLoader®3 autoloader
designed to maximize data density and performance.
3


Tying our libraries together from
entry-level to enterprise is a common, integrated software called
iLayerTM, which provides monitoring, alerts and proactive
diagnostics, thereby reducing service calls, shortening issue resolution time
and decreasing the time users spend managing their tape automation solutions. In
addition, we believe the growth in archiving of unstructured data represents a
substantial opportunity for tape automation systems. To capitalize on this trend
and the changing role of tape automation systems in data protection, we have
invested in our enterprise Scalar i6000 and midrange Scalar i500 platforms to
provide increased redundancy capabilities. These platforms can be implemented on
their own or in an appliance configuration with our StorNext archiving
software.
Devices and Media 
Our device and media products include
removable disk drives and libraries, NAS appliances and tape drives and media.
Our RDX® removable and ruggedized disk backup devices combine
attributes of disk and tape, with deduplication technology offered in our RDX
disk libraries. Our NAS appliance has built-in backup software and deduplication
technology, designed to enable businesses to significantly reduce storage
requirements and network traffic. 
We offer tape drives and media based on
the LTO format. The latest generation LTO tape drive technology is capable of
storing nearly twice the capacity of the previous generation, while consuming
less power. Our LTO family of devices is designed to deliver outstanding
performance, capacity and reliability, combining the advantages of linear
multi-channel, bidirectional formats with enhancements in servo technology, data
compression, track layout and error correction. These LTO tape drives are
designed to provide midrange and enterprise customers with disaster recovery and
cost-effective backup solutions.
We also sell a full range of storage media
offerings to complement each tape drive technology and satisfy a variety of
specific media requirements. Our media includes DLTtape®, LTO
Ultrium®, DAT and DDS data cartridges. Our media is compatible with
our drives, autoloaders and libraries as well as other industry products.

Cloud Solutions
We offer a software platform to help
customers take advantage of cloud-based data protection through a highly
optimized, flexible approach designed to overcome the limitations of other cloud
offerings. This platform is centered on our vmPRO technology and our virtual
deduplication appliance, the DXi V1000TM. Our cloud-based data
protection platform leverages our expertise in data protection to deliver a
highly efficient, cost-effective foundation for cloud-based backup, restore and
data recovery that helps customers transition easily and practically to the
cloud on their terms and timeframe. Our approach is based on knowledge that most
customers continue to use both disk and tape for data protection on a mix of
physical and virtual servers and are more comfortable with a hybrid cloud
strategy. This focus on flexibility is reflected in the benefits provided by our
cloud-optimized software platform, including fast restores; cost-effective
disaster recovery and business continuity; secure, multi-tenant cloud support;
significant data reduction and WAN-optimized replication.
Global Services and
Warranty
Our global services strategy is an
integral component of our total customer solution. Service is typically a
significant purchase factor for customers considering either big data management
or data protection and storage solutions, and our ability to provide
comprehensive service and support can present us with a noteworthy competitive
advantage to attract new customers and retain existing customers. In addition,
we believe that our ability to retain long-term customer relationships and
secure repeat business is frequently tied directly to our service capabilities
and performance. 
Our extensive use of technology and
innovative, built-in product intelligence allows us to scale our global services
operations to meet the needs of our expanding installed base. We are currently
able to provide service to customers in more than 100 countries, supported by
24-hour, multi-language technical support centers located in North America,
Europe and Asia. We provide our customers with warranty coverage on all of our
products. Customers with high availability requirements may also purchase
additional service to extend the warranty period, obtain faster response times,
or both, on our disk systems, tape automation and software products. We offer
this additional support coverage at a variety of response levels up to 24-hours
a day, seven-days-a-week, 365-days-a-year, for customers with stringent
high-availability needs. We provide support ranging from repair and replacement
to 24-hour rapid exchange to on-site service support for our midrange and
enterprise-class products. 
4


We generally warrant our hardware products
against defects for periods ranging from one to three years from the date of
sale. We provide warranty and non-warranty services from our Colorado Springs,
Colorado facility and, for certain products, through third party service
providers. In addition, we utilize various other third party service providers
throughout the world to perform repair and warranty services for us to reach
additional geographic areas and industries in order to provide quality services
in a cost-effective manner.
Research and Development

We compete in an industry characterized by
rapid technological change and evolving customer requirements. Our success
depends, in part, on our ability to introduce new products and features to meet
end user needs. Our research and development teams are working on the next
generation disk, tape automation, data deduplication, virtual systems, cloud
solutions and big data technologies as well as software solutions to advance
these technologies for the big data and archive and the data protection markets
to meet changing customer requirements. We continue to focus our efforts on
software solutions and integrated software and hardware solutions that offer
improvements in the efficiency and cost of storing, moving, managing and
protecting large amounts of data and closely integrating our products to provide
compelling solutions for our customers.
We continue to invest in research and
development to improve and expand our product lines and introduce new product
lines, striving to provide superior data protection, including cloud
environments, and big data and archive solutions. Research and development costs
were $74.3 million, $73.0 million and $69.9 million for fiscal 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. 
Sales and Distribution
Channels
Quantum
Branded Sales Channels 
For Quantum-branded products, we utilize
distributors, VARs and direct marketing resellers. Our integrated Quantum
Alliance™ Reseller Program provides our channel partners the option of
purchasing products directly or through distribution and provides them access to
a more comprehensive product line. Additionally, we sell directly to a select
number of large corporate entities and government agencies. 
OEM Relationships 
We sell our products to several OEM
customers that resell our hardware products under their own brand names and
typically assume responsibility for product sales, end user service and support.
We also license software to certain OEM customers that include this software in
their own brand name products. These OEM relationships enable us to reach end
users not served by our branded distribution channels or our direct sales force.
They also allow us to sell to select geographic or vertical markets where
specific OEMs have exceptional strength.
Customers 
Our sales are concentrated with several
key customers because under our business model, as is typical for our industry,
we sell to OEMs, distributors, VARs and DMRs to reach end user customers. Sales
to our top five customers represented 34% of revenue in fiscal 2012, 33% of
revenue in fiscal 2011 and 37% of revenue in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2011 and
fiscal 2010, sales to Dell comprised 10% and 13% of revenue, respectively.
Through our Quantum Alliance Reseller Program and our emphasis on growing our
branded business, including increasing the independent channel, we are expanding
our customer base and continue to distribute our products and services across a
larger number of customers.
5


Competition 
The markets in which we participate are
highly competitive, characterized by rapid technological change and changing
customer requirements. In some cases, our competitors in one market area are
customers or suppliers in another. Our competitors often have greater financial,
technical, manufacturing, marketing or other resources than we do. Additionally,
the competitive landscape continues to change due to merger and acquisition
activity as well as new entrants into the market.
Our StorNext software and appliance
products primarily face competition from EMC Corporation (“EMC”) and
International Business Machines Corporation
(“IBM”). Our virtual solutions, vmPRO software and appliances, primarily compete
with virtualization startups and traditional backup application vendors. Our cloud solutions
face competition from a large number of businesses that provide hardware,
software and virtual solutions as well as companies that offer cloud services
based on other technology. 
Our disk solutions primarily compete with
products sold by EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”), IBM and NetApp, Inc.
(“NetApp”). Additionally, a number of software companies that have traditionally
been partners with us have deduplication features in their products and will, at
times, compete with us. A number of our competitors also license technology from
other competing companies.
In the tape automation market, we
primarily compete for midrange and enterprise reseller and end user business
with Dell, IBM and Oracle as well as HP through its OEM relationship with other
tape automation suppliers. Competitors for entry-level and OEM tape automation
business include BDT Products, Inc. and several others that supply or
manufacture similar products. In addition, disk backup products are a
competitive alternative to tape products and solutions. 
At the storage device level, our main
competitors are HP and IBM. Both HP and IBM develop and sell their own LTO tape
drives, which compete with our device offerings. We also face competition from
disk alternatives, including removable disk drives in the entry-level market.
Although we have our own removable disk drive offerings, several other companies
sell removable disk drives, such as Dell, HP and Imation Corporation.

For a discussion of risks associated with
competing technologies, see the Risk Factor in Item 1A titled, “We derive the
majority of our revenue from products incorporating tape technology. If
competition from new or alternative storage technologies continues or increases,
our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and
adversely affected.” 
Manufacturing 
We utilize contract manufacturers to
produce a number of our products and we manufacture various other products in
our own facilities. We manufacture our disk products, vmPRO appliances, StorNext
appliances and certain tape automation systems and perform device and system
configuration for our North American customers from our Colorado Springs,
Colorado facility. In addition, we perform test and repair for these products in
that same facility. 
We outsource the manufacture of certain
tape automation systems, tape devices and service parts from contract
manufacturers. Tape drives used in our products are primarily sourced from
Hungary and Malaysia. Disk drives used in our products are largely sourced from
Thailand and China. Certain tape automation system materials and assemblies as
well as certain disk system materials and assemblies are sourced in China,
Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the U.S. 
Our recording tape media is manufactured
by one or more tape media manufacturing companies, which are qualified and
licensed to manufacture, use and sell media products. In most cases, the media
is produced in Japan and multi-sourced on a worldwide basis. 
Technology 
We develop and protect our technology and
know-how, principally in the field of data storage. As of March 31, 2012, we
hold over 400 U.S. patents and have nearly 100 pending U.S. patent applications.
In general, these patents have a 20-year term from the first effective filing
date for each patent. We also hold a number of foreign patents and patent
applications for certain of our products and technologies. Although we believe
that our patents and applications have significant value, rapidly changing
technology in our industry means that our future success will also depend
heavily on the technical competence and creative skills of our employees.

6


From time to time, third parties have
asserted that the manufacture and sale of our products have infringed on their
patents. We conduct ongoing investigations into the assertions and presently
believe that either licenses are not required or that any licenses ultimately
determined to be required could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms.
However, we cannot provide assurance that such licenses are presently
obtainable, or if later determined to be required, could be obtained on
commercially reasonable terms. See Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” for additional
disclosures regarding an on-going lawsuit alleging patent
infringement.
On occasion, we have entered into various
patent licensing and cross-licensing agreements with other companies. We may
enter into patent cross-licensing agreements with other third parties in the
future as part of our normal business activities. These agreements, when and if
entered into, would enable these third parties to use certain patents that we
own and enable us to use certain patents owned by these third parties. We have
also sold certain patents, retaining a royalty-free license for these
patents.
Seasonality 
As is typical in our industry, we have the
greatest demand for our products and services in the fourth quarter of each
calendar year, or our fiscal third quarter. We usually experience the lowest
demand for our products and services in the first and second quarters of each
calendar year, or our fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal first quarter,
respectively.
Backlog

We manufacture our products based on
forecasts of customer demand. We also place inventory in strategic locations in
order to enable certain key customers to obtain products on demand. Orders are
generally placed by customers on an as-needed basis. Product orders are
confirmed and, in most cases, shipped to customers within one week. More complex
systems and product configurations often have longer lead times and may include
on-site integration or customer acceptance. We ship most of the backlog that we
accumulate during any particular fiscal quarter in the same quarter in which the
backlog initially occurs. Therefore, our backlog generally grows during each
fiscal quarter and shrinks during the latter part of the quarter to reach its
lowest levels at the end of that same quarter, by which time significant
shipments have occurred. As a result, our backlog as of the end of any fiscal
quarter is not material and is not a predictor of future sales.
Employees 
We had approximately 1,820 employees
worldwide as of March 31, 2012. 
Available Information 
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports
filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at
http://www.quantum.com generally when such reports are available on the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) website. The contents of our website are not incorporated
into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The public may read and copy any materials
we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC
maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with
the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
7



Management Team 
Following are the names and positions of
our management team, including a brief account of his or her business
experience. 


Name
     
Position with
      Quantum

Jon W. Gacek

President and Chief Executive
    Officer

Linda M. Breard

Chief Financial Officer

William C. Britts

Senior Vice President, Operations and Global
      Services

Robert S. Clark
 
Senior Vice President, Data Protection Group

Shawn D. Hall

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
      Secretary

Janae S. Lee

Senior Vice President, File System and Archive

Don Martella

Senior Vice President,
  Engineering

Jim Mudd

Senior Vice President, Operations

Henrik Rosendahl

Vice President, Cloud Solutions

Ted Stinson

Senior Vice President, Worldwide
Sales
Mr. Gacek became President and Chief Executive Officer and was also appointed to
the Board of Directors in April 2011. He was President and Chief Operating
Officer from January 2011 through March 2011. He joined Quantum as Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in August 2006, upon Quantum’s
acquisition of Advanced Digital Information Corporation (“ADIC”) and was
promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief
Operating Officer in June 2009. Previously, he served as the Chief Financial
Officer at ADIC from 1999 to 2006 and also led Operations during his last three
years at ADIC. Prior to ADIC, Mr. Gacek was an audit partner at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and led the Technology Practice in the firm’s Seattle
office. While at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, he assisted several private equity
investment firms with a number of mergers, acquisitions, leveraged buyouts and
other transactions. Mr. Gacek serves on the board of directors for Market
Leader, Inc. and Power-One, Inc. 
Ms. Breard joined Quantum as Vice President of Finance in August 2006, upon
Quantum’s acquisition of ADIC. In May 2009, she was promoted to Senior Vice
President and assumed responsibility for IT and Facilities in addition to
Finance. In January 2011, Ms. Breard was promoted to Chief Financial Officer,
and in April 2012 added Human Resources and Corporate Communications to her
portfolio. Prior to Quantum, she spent eight years at ADIC, serving as Vice
President of Finance and Accounting and in other leadership positions, where she
was deeply involved in the company’s merger and acquisition activity and success
in driving growth. Earlier in her career, Ms. Breard worked in public accounting
for six years. 
Mr. Britts joined Quantum as Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing in August
2006, upon Quantum’s acquisition of ADIC. He served in this position until June
2011, when he assumed the role of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Marketing,
Service and Business Development. In April 2012, Mr. Britts added Operations to
his portfolio and now serves as Senior Vice President, Operations and Global
Services, with continued responsibility for Worldwide Marketing and Business
Development. Prior to Quantum, he spent 12 years at ADIC, where he held numerous
leadership positions, including Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and
Marketing, Vice President of Sales and Marketing and Director of Marketing.
Before ADIC, Mr. Britts served in a number of marketing and sales positions at
Raychem Corp. and its subsidiary, Elo TouchSystems. 
Mr.
Clark joined Quantum as Director of Tape
Products in August 2006, upon Quantum’s acquisition of ADIC. In March 2009, he
was promoted to Vice President with responsibility for various product lines, as
well as business operations and OEM sales. In April 2010, he was named Senior
Vice President, Tape and OEM Product Group, subsequently reorganized as the Data
Protection Group. Prior to Quantum, Mr. Clark was at HP for 10 years in various
engineering and sales positions.
Mr. Hall joined Quantum in 1999 as Corporate Counsel, became Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary in 2001 and was promoted to Senior Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary in May 2009. Prior to Quantum, Mr. Hall worked at
the law firms of Skadden, Arps and Willkie Farr & Gallagher, where he
practiced in the areas of mergers and acquisitions and corporate finance,
representing numerous public and private technology companies.
Ms. Lee joined Quantum in October 2007 as Vice President, Marketing and in April
2010 was promoted to Senior Vice President, Disk and Software Products,
subsequently reorganized as File System and Archive. She has more than 30 years
experience in the storage industry, including 10 years working with a variety of
companies in data reduction and file system software and hardware. Previously,
she was Chief Executive Officer at TimeSpring Software Corporation, Vice
President of Product, Marketing and Business Development at Avamar Technologies,
and a senior sales and marketing executive at both Legato Systems, Inc. and
IBM.
8


Mr. Martella joined Quantum as Vice President, Automation Engineering in
August 2006, upon Quantum’s acquisition of ADIC. In June 2010, he was promoted
to Senior Vice President, Platform Engineering, and in April 2011 assumed his
current role. Before joining Quantum, Mr. Martella served as a Vice President of
Engineering and Quality at ADIC, where he spent five years in various leadership
positions. Previously, he held engineering positions in the storage and process
control industries.
Mr. Mudd joined Quantum in December 2000. Prior to assuming his current role, he
served as Vice President, Supply Chain and, before that, Director of Materials.
Mr. Mudd has 30 years of manufacturing experience with high tech companies in
the electronic, medical and data storage industries. He has an extensive
background in manufacturing operations, having served in executive level
positions at companies including Visicom/Coors Ceramics, Telectronics, Inc. and
Monolythic Power Systems, Inc. 
Mr. Rosendahl joined Quantum as Vice President, Virtualization Systems in
June 2011, upon Quantum’s acquisition of Pancetera Software, Inc. (“Pancetera”)
and in April 2012 assumed responsibility for cloud solutions, becoming Vice
President, Cloud Solutions. Mr. Rosendahl served as Chief Executive Officer at
Pancetera from January 2010 until acquired by Quantum. He was the Director of
Application Virtualization at VMware, Inc. (“VMware”) from January 2008 to
December 2009 and Chief Executive Officer at Thinstall, Inc., from October 2006
until its acquisition by VMware. Previously, Mr. Rosendahl held executive and
senior leadership positions at several technology companies in the U.S. and
Europe.
Mr. Stinson joined Quantum as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in June 2011.
Previously, he spent seven years at Symantec Corporation and Veritas Software
Corp., prior to its acquisition by Symantec. His most recent position there was
Vice President, America Sales – Advanced Technologies, where he led the sales
organization responsible for a portfolio of high-growth solutions that included
data loss prevention, deduplication and archiving. Mr. Stinson also served as
Vice President, Strategic Operations at Symantec, where he oversaw business
development, alliances, pricing, strategy and strategic marketing organizations
for the Data Center Management Group. Before joining Veritas, Mr. Stinson held
key senior sales, marketing and product leadership roles at Embark.com, Inc., a
SaaS-based solution provider.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS
DESCRIBED BELOW, TOGETHER WITH ALL OF THE OTHER INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THIS
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K. THE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES DESCRIBED BELOW ARE NOT THE ONLY ONES FACING QUANTUM.
ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES NOT PRESENTLY KNOWN TO US OR THAT ARE
CURRENTLY DEEMED IMMATERIAL MAY ALSO IMPAIR OUR
BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS
“FORWARD-LOOKING” STATEMENTS THAT INVOLVE RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. PLEASE SEE
PAGE 1 OF THIS REPORT FOR ADDITIONAL DISCUSSION OF THESE FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS.
We rely on indirect sales channels to
market and sell our branded products. Therefore, the loss of or deterioration in
our relationship with one or more of our resellers or distributors, or our
inability to establish new indirect sales channels to drive growth of our
branded revenue, especially for disk systems and software solutions, could
negatively affect our operating results. 
We sell the majority of our branded
products to value-added resellers, or VARs, and to direct marketing resellers
such as CDW Corporation, who in turn sell our products to end users, and to
distributors such as Avnet, Inc., Ingram Micro, Inc. and others. The success of
these sales channels is hard to predict, particularly over time, and we have no
purchase commitments or long-term orders from them that assure us of any
baseline sales through these channels. Several of our resellers carry competing
product lines that they may promote over our products. A reseller might not
continue to purchase our products or market them effectively, and each reseller
determines the type and amount of our products that it will purchase from us and
the pricing of the products that it sells to end user customers. Establishing
new indirect sales channels is an important part of our strategy to drive growth
of our branded revenue.
As we introduce new products and
solutions, we could negatively impact our relationship with channel partners
that historically have sold other products and solutions that now compete with
our new offerings. For example, we introduced various StorNext appliance
solutions in fiscal 2012 causing us to more directly compete for hardware sales
with channel partners that sold other hardware products in conjunction with our
StorNext software. 
9


Certain of our contracts with customers
contain “most favored nation” pricing provisions mandating that we offer our
products to these customers at the lowest price offered to other similarly
situated customers. In addition, sales of our enterprise products, and the
revenue associated with the on-site service of those products, are somewhat
concentrated in specific customers, including government agencies and
government-related companies. Our operating results could be adversely affected
by any number of factors including:
A change in competitive strategy that adversely
  affects a reseller’s willingness or ability to distribute our products;
The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or
  the return of a significant amount of products;
Our inability to gain traction in developing new
  indirect sales channels for our branded products;
The loss of one or more of such distributors or
  resellers;
Any financial difficulties of such distributors or
  resellers that result in their inability to pay amounts owed to us; or
Changes in requirements or programs that allow our
  products to be sold by third parties to government customers. 
Our operating results depend on a
limited number of products and on new product introductions, which may not be
successful, in which case our business, financial condition and operating
results may be materially and adversely affected. 
A limited number of products comprise a
significant majority of our sales, and due to rapid technological change in the
industry, our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and
successfully introduce new products. To compete effectively, we must continually
improve existing products and introduce new ones. We have devoted and expect to
continue to devote considerable management and financial resources to these
efforts. We cannot provide assurance that: 
We will introduce new products in the timeframe we
  are forecasting;
We will not experience technical, quality,
  performance-related or other difficulties that could prevent or delay
  the introduction and market acceptance of new
  products;
Our new products will achieve market acceptance
  and significant market share, or that the markets for these products will continue or grow as we have
  anticipated;
Our new products will be successfully or timely
  qualified with our customers by meeting customer performance and quality specifications which must occur before customers
  will place large product orders; or
We will achieve high volume production of these
  new products in a timely manner, if at all. 
If we are not successful in timely
completion of our new product qualifications and then ramping sales to our key
customers, our revenue and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In
addition, if the quality of our products is not acceptable to our customers,
this could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased
warranty and repair costs. 
Competition may intensify in the data
protection market as a result of competitors introducing products based on new
technology standards and merger and acquisition activity, which could materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 
Our competitors in the data protection
market for disk systems and virtual machine solutions are aggressively trying to
advance and develop new technologies and products to compete against our
technologies and products, and we face the risk that customers could choose
competitor products over ours due to these features and technologies.
Competition in these markets is characterized by technological innovation and
advancement. As a result of competition and new technology standards, our sales
or gross margins could decline, which could materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.
Technological developments and competition
over the years in the tape automation market has resulted in decreased prices
for tape automation products and product offerings. Pricing pressure is more
pronounced in the tape automation market for entry-level products and least
pronounced for enterprise products. Similar to our competitors, our products may
be priced lower and often incorporate new and/or different features and
technologies than prior years. We face risks that customers could choose
competitor products over ours due to these features and technologies or due to
pricing differences. We have managed pricing pressure by reducing production
costs and/or adding features to increase value to maintain a certain level of
gross margin for our tape automation systems. If competition further
intensifies, or if there is additional industry consolidation, our sales and
gross margins for tape automation systems could decline, which could materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 
10


Industry consolidation and competing
technologies with device products, which include tape drives and removable hard
drives, have resulted in decreased prices and increasingly commoditized device
products. Our response has been to manage our device business at the material
margin level and we have chosen not to compete for sales in intense price-based
situations or if we would be unable to maintain a certain gross margin level.
Our focus has shifted to higher margin opportunities in other product lines.
Although revenue from devices has decreased in recent years, our material
margins have remained relatively stable over this period. We have exited certain
portions of the device market and have anticipated decreased sales of devices.
We face risk of reduced shipments of our devices beyond our plans, and could
have reduced margins on these products, which could adversely impact our
business, financial condition and results of operations.
Additionally, the competitive landscape
could change due to merger and acquisition activity in the data protection
market. Such transactions may impact us in a number of ways. For instance, they
could result in: 

Smaller number of competitors having greater
  resources and becoming more competitive with us;
Companies that we have not historically competed
  against entering into one or more of our primary markets and increasing
  competition in that market(s); and 
Customers that are also competitors becoming more
  competitive with us and/or reducing their purchase of our products.

These transactions also create uncertainty
and disruption in the market, given that it is often unknown whether a pending
transaction will be completed, the timing of such a transaction, and its degree
of impact. Given these factors and others, such merger and acquisition activity
may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
Competition may intensify in the big
data and archive market as a result of competitors introducing products based on
new technology standards and merger and acquisition activity, which could
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
Competition in the big data and archive
market is characterized by technological innovation and advancement, including
performance and scale features, and our competitors are aggressively trying to
advance and develop new technologies and solutions. We face the risk that
customers could choose competitor solutions over ours due to these features and
technologies. As a result of competition and new technology standards, our sales
from software solutions and appliances could decline, which could materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
Additionally, the competitive landscape
could change due to merger and acquisition activity, such as the acquisition of
Isilon Systems, Inc. by EMC. Transactions such as these may impact us in a
number of ways. For instance, they could result in: 
Smaller number of competitors having greater
  resources and becoming more competitive with us;
Companies that we have not historically competed
  against entering into one or more of our primary markets and increasing
  competition in that market(s); and 
Customers that are also competitors becoming more
  competitive with us and/or reducing their purchase of our products.

These transactions also create uncertainty
and disruption in the market, given that it is often unknown whether a pending
transaction will be completed, the timing of such a transaction, and its degree
of impact. Given these factors and others, such merger and acquisition activity
may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
11


Our royalties, branded software and OEM
deduplication software revenues are relatively profitable and can significantly
impact total company profitability. A significant decline in royalty, branded
software or OEM deduplication software revenues could materially and adversely
affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 
We receive royalty revenue based on tape
media cartridges sold by various tape media manufacturers and resellers. Under
our license agreements with these companies, each of the licensees determines
the pricing and number of units of tape media cartridges that it sells. Our
royalty revenue varies depending on the level of sales of the various media
cartridge offerings sold by the licensees and other factors, including:

The size of the installed base of devices and
  similar products that use tape media cartridges;
The performance of our strategic licensing
  partners, which sell tape media cartridges;
The relative growth in units of newer device
  products, since the associated media cartridges for newer products
typically sell at higher prices than the media
  cartridges associated with older products;
The media consumption habits and rates of end
  users;
The pattern of device retirements; and
The level of channel inventories. 
Our media royalties depend on royalty
rates and the quantity of media consumed in the market. We do not control
licensee sales of these tape media cartridges. Reduced royalty rates, or a
reduced installed device base using tape media cartridges, would result in
further reductions in our royalty revenue and could reduce gross margins. This
could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.
Our branded software revenues are also
dependent on many factors, including the success of competitive offerings, our
ability to execute on our product roadmap and our effectiveness at marketing and
selling our branded software solutions directly or through our channel partners.

Our OEM deduplication software revenues
also depend on many factors, including the success of competitive offerings, our
ability to execute on our product roadmap with our OEM deduplication software
partners, the effort of our OEM deduplication software partners in marketing and
selling the resulting products, the market acceptance of the resulting products
and changes in the competitive landscape such as that which occurred with EMC’s
purchase of Data Domain. Our relationship with EMC changed from partner to
competitor in deduplication as a result of their acquisition of Data Domain.
Following this acquisition, except for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 when
significant revenue was recognized in accordance with contractual requirements,
our OEM deduplication software revenue has significantly declined, which has
negatively impacted our results. 
We derive the majority of our revenue
from products incorporating tape technology. If we are unable to compete with
new or alternative storage technologies, our business, financial condition and
operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 
We derive the majority of our revenue from
products that incorporate some form of tape technology and we expect to continue
to derive significant revenue from these products in the next several years. As
a result, our future operating results depend in part on continued market
acceptance and use of products employing tape technology. Disk products as well
as various software solutions and alternative technologies continue to gain
broader market acceptance. We face risks that our tape customers migrate toward
these products and solutions.
We are addressing this risk through our
own targeted investment in disk systems and other alternative technologies;
however, these markets are characterized by rapid innovation, evolving customer
demands and strong competition, including competition with several companies who
are also significant customers. If we are not successful in our efforts, our
business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and
adversely affected. 
A large percentage of our sales come
from a few customers, some of which are also competitors, and these customers
generally have no minimum or long-term purchase commitments. The loss of, or a
significant reduction in demand from, one or more key customers could materially
and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating
results. 
Our sales have been and continue to be
concentrated among a few customers because under our business model, we sell to
OEMs, distributors, VARs and DMRs to reach end user customers. Furthermore,
customers are not obligated to purchase any minimum product volume and our
relationships with customers are terminable at will. Revenue from OEM customers
has decreased in recent years. If we experience further declines in revenue from
OEM customers or any of our other large customers, we could be materially and
adversely affected. In addition, certain of our large customers are also our
competitors, and such customers could decide to reduce or terminate their
purchases of our products for competitive reasons. 
12


Some of our tape and disk products are
incorporated into larger storage systems or solutions that are marketed and sold
to end users by our large OEM customers as well as our VARs, channel partners
and other distributors. Because of this, we have limited market access to these
end users, limiting our ability to reach and influence their purchasing
decisions. These market conditions further our reliance on these OEM and other
large customers such as distributors and VARs. Thus if they were to
significantly reduce, cancel or delay their orders with us, our results of
operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
We continue to face risks related to
the slow economic recovery.
The economic crisis in the U.S. and global
financial markets in 2008 and 2009 had a material and adverse impact on our
business and our financial condition, including reduced demand for our products
and concerns about our ability to access capital markets. The initial impact of
this economic crisis was reflected in our results for the third quarter of
fiscal 2009. We continue to face risks related to the slow economic recovery,
including risks related to economic conditions in Europe. In addition, concerns
about the potential default of various national bonds and debt backed by
individual countries as well the politics impacting these, could negatively
impact the U.S. and global economies and adversely affect our financial results.
Uncertainty about economic conditions poses a risk as businesses may further
reduce or postpone spending in response to reduced budgets, tight credit,
negative financial news and declines in income or asset values which could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In
addition, our ability to access capital markets may be restricted which could
have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business
conditions and could also adversely affect our results of operations and
financial condition.
If our products fail to meet our or our
customers’ specifications for quality and reliability, our results of operations
may be adversely impacted and our competitive position may
suffer. 
Although we place great emphasis on
product quality, we may from time to time experience problems with the
performance of our products, which could result in one or more of the following:

Increased costs related to fulfillment of our
  warranty obligations;
The reduction, delay or cancellation of orders or
  the return of a significant amount of products;
Focused failure analysis causing distraction of
  the sales, operations and management teams; or
The loss of reputation in the market and customer
  goodwill. 
These factors could cause our business,
financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely
affected. 
We have taken considerable steps
towards reducing our cost structure and may take further cost reduction actions.
The steps we have taken and may take in the future may not reduce our cost
structure to a level appropriate in relation to our future sales and therefore,
these anticipated cost reductions may be insufficient to result in consistent
profitability. 
In the last several years, we have
recorded significant restructuring charges and made cash payments in order to
reduce our cost of sales and operating expenses to rationalize our operations
following past acquisitions, to respond to adverse economic and industry
conditions and from strategic management decisions. We may take future steps to
further reduce our operating costs, including future cost reduction steps or
restructurings in response to strategic decisions, adverse changes in our
business or industry or future acquisitions. We may be unable to reduce our cost
of sales and operating expenses at a rate and to a level appropriate in relation
to our future sales, which may adversely affect our business, financial
condition and operating results.
If we are unable to attract and retain
skilled employees, our business could be adversely impacted. 
We may be subject to increased turnover in
our employee base or the inability to fill open headcount requisitions due to
competition, concerns about our operational performance or other factors. In
addition, we may rely on the performance of employees whose skill sets are not
sufficiently developed to completely realize the expected fulfillment of their
job responsibilities. Either of these situations could impair or delay our
ability to realize operational and strategic objectives and cause increased
expenses and lost sales opportunities. 
13


Economic or other business factors may
lead us to write down the carrying amount of our goodwill or long-lived assets,
such as the goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2009, which could have a
material and adverse effect on our results of operations.
We evaluate our goodwill for impairment
annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently when
indicators of impairment are present. Long-lived assets are reviewed for
impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment might exist. We
continue to monitor relevant market and economic conditions, including the price
of our stock, and perform appropriate impairment reviews when conditions
deteriorate such that we believe the value of our goodwill could be further
impaired or an impairment exists in our long-lived assets. It is possible that
conditions could deteriorate due to economic or other factors that affect our
business, resulting in the need to write down the carrying amount of our
goodwill or long-lived assets to fair value at the time of such assessment. As a
result, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected.

Third party intellectual property
infringement claims could result in substantial liability and significant costs,
and, as a result, our business, financial condition and operating results may be
materially and adversely affected. 
From time to time, third parties allege
our infringement of and need for a license under their patented or other
proprietary technology, such as our current litigation with CTS Solutions
described in Item 3 below. While we currently believe the amount of ultimate
liability, if any, with respect to any such actions will not materially affect
our financial position, results of operations or liquidity, the ultimate outcome
of any license discussion or litigation is uncertain. Adverse resolution of any
third party infringement claim could subject us to substantial liabilities and
require us to refrain from manufacturing and selling certain products. In
addition, the costs incurred in intellectual property litigation can be
substantial, regardless of the outcome. As a result, our business, financial
condition and operating results could be materially and adversely
affected.
In addition, certain products or
technologies acquired or developed by us may include “open source” software.
Open source software is typically licensed for use at no initial charge. Certain
open source software licenses, however, require users of the open source
software to license to others any software that is based on, incorporates or
interacts with, the open source software under the terms of the open source
license. Although we endeavor to comply fully with such requirements, third
parties could claim that we are required to license larger portions of our
software than we believe we are required to license under open source software
licenses. If such claims were successful, they could adversely impact our
competitive position and financial results by providing our competitors with
access to sensitive information that may help them develop competitive products.
In addition, our use of open source software may harm our business and subject
us to intellectual property claims, litigation or proceedings in the future
because:
Open source license terms may be ambiguous and may
  subject us to unanticipated obligations regarding our products, technologies and intellectual property;
Open source software generally cannot be protected
  under trade secret law; and
It may be difficult for us to accurately determine
  the origin of the open source code and whether the open source software infringes, misappropriates or violates third party
  intellectual property or other rights. 
As a result of our global manufacturing
and sales operations, we are subject to a variety of risks that are unique to
businesses with international operations of a similar scope, any of which could,
individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business.

A significant portion of our manufacturing
and sales operations and supply chain occurs in countries other than the U.S. We
also have sales outside the U.S. We utilize contract manufacturers to produce
certain of our products and have suppliers for various components, several of
which have operations located in foreign countries including China, Hungary,
Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. Because of these operations, we are
subject to a number of risks including:
Shortages in component parts and raw
  materials;
Import and export and trade regulation changes
  that could erode our profit margins or restrict our ability to
  transport our products;
The burden and cost of complying with foreign and
  U.S. laws governing corporate conduct outside the U.S.; 
14


Adverse movement of foreign currencies against the
  U.S. dollar (the currency in which our results are reported) and global economic conditions generally;
Inflexible employee contracts and employment laws
  that may make it difficult to terminate or change the compensation structure for employees in some foreign countries in the
  event of business downturns;
Potential restrictions on the transfer of funds
  between countries;
Political, military, social and infrastructure
  risks, especially in emerging or developing economies;
Import and export duties and value-added taxes;
  and
Natural disasters, including earthquakes,
  flooding, typhoons and tsunamis. 
Any or all of these risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business. 
Our quarterly operating results could
fluctuate significantly, and past quarterly operating results should not be used
to predict future performance. 
Our quarterly operating results have
fluctuated significantly in the past and could fluctuate significantly in the
future. As a result, our quarterly operating results should not be used to
predict future performance. Quarterly operating results could be materially and
adversely affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to:

Failure to complete shipments in the last month of
  a quarter during which a substantial portion of our products are typically shipped;
Customers canceling, reducing, deferring or
  rescheduling significant orders as a result of excess inventory levels,
  weak economic conditions or other
  factors;
Customer fiscal year-ends and budget availability
  impacting customer demand for our products;
Declines in royalty revenues;
Declines in software revenues;
Product development and ramp cycles and product
  performance or quality issues;
Poor execution of and performance against expected
  sales and marketing plans and strategies;
Reduced demand from our OEM or distribution, VAR,
  DMR and other large customers; and
Increased competition. 
If we fail to meet our projected quarterly
results, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be
materially and adversely affected.
If we fail to protect our intellectual
property or if others use our proprietary technology without authorization, our
competitive position may suffer. 
Our future success and ability to compete
depends in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of
copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secrets laws and nondisclosure
agreements to establish and protect our proprietary technology. However, we
cannot provide assurance that patents will be issued with respect to pending or
future patent applications that we have filed or plan to file or that our
patents will be upheld as valid or will prevent the development of competitive
products or that any actions we have taken will adequately protect our
intellectual property rights. We generally enter into confidentiality agreements
with our employees, consultants, customers, potential customers and others as
required, in which we strictly limit access to, and distribution of, our
software, and further limit the disclosure and use of our proprietary
information.
Despite our efforts to protect our
proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain
or use our products or technology. Enforcing our intellectual property rights
can sometimes only be accomplished through the use of litigation, such as in the
litigation with Riverbed Technology, Inc. settled in fiscal 2009. Our
competitors may also independently develop technologies that are substantially
equivalent or superior to our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign
countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws
of the U.S.
15



Because we may order components from
suppliers in advance of receipt of customer orders for our products which
include these components, we could face a material inventory risk, which could
have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.

Although we use third parties to
manufacture certain of our products, we also manufacture products in-house.
Managing our in-house manufacturing capabilities presents a number of risks that
could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. For instance, as
part of our component planning, we place orders with or pay certain suppliers
for components in advance of receipt of customer orders. We occasionally enter
into negotiated orders with vendors early in the manufacturing process of our
products to ensure that we have sufficient components for our products to meet
anticipated customer demand. Because the design and manufacturing process for
these components can be complicated, it is possible that we could experience a
design or manufacturing flaw that could delay or even prevent the production of
the components for which we previously committed to pay. We also face the risk
of ordering too many components, or conversely, not enough components, since
supply orders are generally based on forecasts of customer orders rather than
actual customer orders. In addition, in some cases, we make non-cancelable order
commitments to our suppliers for work-in-progress, supplier’s finished goods,
custom sub-assemblies, discontinued (end-of-life) components and Quantum-unique
raw materials that are necessary to meet our lead times for finished goods. If
we cannot change or be released from supply orders, we could incur costs from
the purchase of unusable components, either due to a delay in the production of
the components or other supplies or as a result of inaccurately predicting
supply orders in advance of customer orders. These same risks exist with our
third party contract manufacturing partners. Our business and operating results
could be materially and adversely affected if we incur increased costs, or are
unable to fulfill customer orders.
In addition, several of our disk drive
suppliers as well as suppliers of other components for our tape automation
products with operations in Thailand were impacted by flooding in October 2011,
which has affected those suppliers’ ability to manufacture a sufficient number
of drives and components in order to meet the demands of their customers,
including us. Certain suppliers have also announced anticipated price increases
for available drives. Continued supply shortages and pricing complexities could
materially and adversely affect our supply chain, customer relationships and
results of operations. Although we have purchased a supply of hard disk drives
to meet estimated demand for the near term, our business and operating results
could be materially and adversely affected if we incur increased costs or are
unable to meet customer demand.
Some of our manufacturing, component
production and service repair are outsourced to third party contract
manufacturers, component suppliers and service providers. If we cannot obtain
products, parts and services from these third parties in a cost effective and
timely manner that meets our customers’ expectations, this could materially and
adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Many aspects of our supply chain and
operational results are dependent on the performance of third party business
partners. We face a number of risks as a result of these relationships,
including, among others:
Sole source of product
  supplyIn many cases, our business
  partner may be the sole source of supply for the products or parts they
  manufacture, or the services they provide, for
  us. Because we are relying on one supplier, we are at greater risk of
experiencing shortages, reduced production capacity or
  other delays in customer deliveries that could result in customer dissatisfaction, lost sales and increased expenses,
  each of which could materially damage customer relationships and result in lost revenue. 
Cost and purchase
  commitmentsWe may not be able to
  control the costs for the products our business partners manufacture for us or
  the services they provide to us. They procure
  inventory to build our products based upon a forecast of customer demand
  that we provide. We could be responsible for
  the financial impact on the contract manufacturer, supplier or service
provider of any reduction or product mix shift in the
  forecast relative to materials that they had already purchased under a prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand
  could require us to pay them for finished goods
  in excess of current customer demand or for excess or obsolete inventory and
  generally incur higher costs. As a result, we
  could experience reduced gross margins and operating losses based on these
  purchase commitments. With respect to service
  providers, although we have contracts for most of our third party repair
  service vendors, the contract period may not be the same as the
  underlying service contract with our customer. In such
  cases, we face risks that the third party service provider may increase the
  cost of providing services over subsequent
  periods contracted with our customer.
16 


Financial condition and
  stabilityOur third party business
  partners may suffer adverse financial or operational results or may be
  negatively impacted by global and local
  economic conditions. Therefore, we may face interruptions in the supply
  of product components or service as a result of
  financial or other volatility affecting our supply chain. We could
suffer production downtime or increased costs to
  procure alternate products or services as a result of the possible
inadequate financial condition of one or more of our
  business partners. 
Quality and supplier
  conductWe have limited control over the
  quality of products and components produced and services provided by
  our supply chain business partners. Therefore,
  the quality of the products, parts or services may not be acceptable to
our customers and could result in customer
  dissatisfaction, lost revenue and increased warranty costs. In addition, we have limited control over the manner in which
  our business partners conduct their business. Sub-tier suppliers selected by the primary third party could have process
  control issues or could select components with
  latent defects that manifest over a longer period of time. Therefore, we may
  face negative consequences or publicity as a
  result of a third party’s failure to comply with applicable compliance, trade,
  environmental or employment regulations.

Any or all of these risks could have a
material adverse effect on our business. In the past we have successfully
transitioned products or component supply from one supplier to another existing
supplier of different products or to our own facilities without significant
financial or operational impact, but there is no guarantee of our continued
ability to do so.
If we do not successfully manage the
changes that we have made and may continue to make to our infrastructure and
management, our business could be disrupted, and that could adversely impact our
results of operations and financial condition. 
Managing change is an important focus for
us. In recent years, we have implemented several significant initiatives
involving our sales and marketing, engineering and operations organizations,
aimed at increasing our efficiency and better aligning these groups with our
corporate strategy. In addition, we have reduced headcount to streamline and
consolidate our supporting functions as appropriate following past acquisitions
and in response to market or competitive conditions. Our inability to
successfully manage the changes that we implement, and detect and address issues
as they arise could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of
operations and financial condition.
Our stock price could become more
volatile if certain institutional investors were to increase or decrease the
number of shares they own. In addition, there are other factors and events that
could affect the trading prices of our common stock. 
A small number of institutional investors
have owned a significant portion of our common stock at various times in recent
years. If any or all of these investors were to decide to purchase significant
additional shares or to sell significant amounts or all of the common shares
they currently own, that may cause our stock price to be more volatile. For
example, there have been instances in the past where a shareholder with a
significant equity position began to sell shares, putting downward pressure on
our stock price for the duration of their selling activity. In these situations,
selling pressure outweighed buying demand and our stock price declined. This
situation has occurred due to our stock price falling below institutional
investors’ price thresholds and our volatility increasing beyond investors’
volatility parameters causing even greater sell pressure. The opposite has also
occurred whereby a shareholder purchases a significant equity position, creating
demand for our common stock and an increased stock price. 
Trading prices of our common stock may
fluctuate in response to a number of other events and factors, such as:

General economic conditions;
Changes in interest rates;
Fluctuations in the stock market in general and
  market prices for technology companies in particular;
Quarterly variations in our operating
  results; 
17 


New products, services, innovations and strategic
  developments by our competitors or us, or business combinations and investments by our competitors or us;
Changes in financial estimates by us or securities
  analysts and recommendations by securities analysts;
Changes in our capital structure, including
  issuance of additional debt or equity to the public; and
Strategic acquisitions. 
Any of these events and factors may cause
our stock price to rise or fall and may adversely affect our business and
financing opportunities. 
Our design and production processes are
subject to safety and environmental regulations which could lead to increased
costs, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 
We are subject to a variety of laws and
regulations relating to, among other things, the use, storage, discharge and
disposal of materials and substances used in our facilities and manufacturing
processes as well as the safety of our employees and the public. Directives
first introduced in the European Union impose a “take back” obligation on
manufacturers for the financing of the collection, recovery and disposal of
electrical and electronic equipment and restrict the use of certain potentially
hazardous materials, including lead and some flame retardants, in electronic
products and components. Other jurisdictions in the U.S. and internationally
have since introduced similar requirements, and we anticipate that future
regulations might further restrict allowable materials in our products, require
the establishment of additional recycling or take back programs or mandate the
measurement and reduction of carbon emissions into the environment. We have
implemented procedures and will likely continue to introduce new processes to
comply with current and future safety and environmental legislation. However,
measures taken now or in the future to comply with such legislation may
adversely affect our manufacturing or personnel costs or product sales by
requiring us to acquire costly equipment or materials, redesign production
processes or to incur other significant expenses in adapting our manufacturing
programs or waste disposal and emission management processes. Furthermore,
safety or environmental claims or our failure to comply with present or future
regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines
against us, or the suspension of affected operations, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
We are subject to many laws and
regulations, and violation of or changes in those requirements could materially
and adversely affect our business.

We are subject to numerous U.S. and
international laws regarding corporate conduct, fair competition, preventing
corruption and import and export practices, including requirements applicable to
U.S. government contractors. While we maintain a rigorous corporate ethics and
compliance program, we may be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny,
significant monetary fines or penalties, suspension of business opportunities or
loss of jurisdictional operating rights as a result of any failure to comply
with those requirements. We may also be exposed to potential liability resulting
from our business partners’ violation of these requirements. In addition, U.S.
regulatory agencies have recently introduced new enforcement efforts that may
proactively seek conduct-related information from companies operating in certain
targeted industries or locations, without regard for whether potential
violations have been identified. If we were to receive such an information
request, we may incur increased personnel and legal costs in order to adequately
review and respond to the request. Further our U.S. and international business
models are based on currently applicable regulatory requirements and exceptions.
Changes in those requirements or exceptions could necessitate changes to our
business model. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely impact
our business and operating results.
We may be sued by our customers as a
result of failures in our products.

We face potential liability for
performance problems of our products because our end users employ our storage
technologies for the storage and backup of important data and to satisfy
regulatory requirements. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions
insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not
be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any
imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs that is not covered by
insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our business. In
addition, we could potentially face claims for product liability from our
customers if our products cause property damage or bodily injury. Although we
maintain general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential
claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability
that may be imposed. Any imposition of liability or accrual of litigation costs
that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could
harm our business.
18 


We must maintain appropriate levels of
service parts inventories. If we do not have sufficient service parts
inventories, we may experience increased levels of customer dissatisfaction. If
we hold excessive service parts inventories, we may incur financial losses.

We maintain levels of service parts
inventories to satisfy future warranty obligations and also to earn service
revenue by providing enhanced and extended warranty and repair service during
and beyond the warranty period. We estimate the required amount of service parts
inventories based on historical usage and forecasts of future warranty
requirements, including estimates of failure rates and costs to repair, and out
of warranty revenue. Given the significant levels of judgment inherently
involved in the process, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to
maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories to satisfy customer
needs and to avoid financial losses from excess service parts inventories. If we
are unable to maintain appropriate levels of service parts inventories, our
business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and
adversely impacted. 
Because we rely heavily on distributors
and other resellers to market and sell our products, if one or more distributors
were to experience a significant deterioration in its financial condition or its
relationship with us, this could disrupt the distribution of our products and
reduce our revenue, which could materially and adversely affect our business,
financial condition and operating results. 
In certain product and geographic segments
we heavily utilize distributors and value added resellers to perform the
functions necessary to market and sell our products. To fulfill this role, the
distributor must maintain an acceptable level of financial stability,
creditworthiness and the ability to successfully manage business relationships
with the customers it serves directly. Under our distributor agreements with
these companies, each of the distributors determines the type and amount of our
products that it will purchase from us and the pricing of the products that it
sells to its customers. If the distributor is unable to perform in an acceptable
manner, we may be required to reduce the amount of sales of our product to the
distributor or terminate the relationship. We may also incur financial losses
for product returns from distributors or for the failure or refusal of
distributors to pay obligations owed to us. Either scenario could result in
fewer of our products being available to the affected market segments, reduced
levels of customer satisfaction and/or increased expenses, which could in turn
have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.
From time to time we have made
acquisitions. The failure to successfully integrate future acquisitions could
harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 
As a part of our business strategy, we
have in the past and may make acquisitions in the future, subject to certain
debt covenants. We may also make significant investments in complementary
companies, products or technologies. If we fail to successfully integrate such
acquisitions or significant investments, it could harm our business, financial
condition and operating results. Risks that we may face in our efforts to
integrate any recent or future acquisitions include, among others:
Failure to realize anticipated savings and
  benefits from the acquisition;
Difficulties in assimilating and retaining
  employees;
Potential incompatibility of business
  cultures;
Coordinating geographically separate
  organizations;
Diversion of management’s attention from ongoing
  business concerns;
Coordinating infrastructure operations in a rapid
  and efficient manner;
The potential inability to maximize our financial
  and strategic position through the successful incorporation of acquired technology and rights into our products and
  services;
Failure of acquired technology or products to
  provide anticipated revenue or margin contribution;
Insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses
  associated with the acquisition;
Costs and delays in implementing or integrating
  common systems and procedures;
Reduction or loss of customer orders due to the
  potential for market confusion, hesitation and delay;
Impairment of existing customer, supplier and
  strategic relationships of either company;
Insufficient cash flows from operations to fund
  the working capital and investment requirements;
Difficulties in entering markets in which we have
  no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such
markets have stronger market positions;
The possibility that we may not receive a
  favorable return on our investment, the original investment may become
impaired, and/or we may incur losses from these
  investments;
Dissatisfaction or performance problems with the
  acquired company; 
19


The assumption of risks of the acquired company
  that are difficult to quantify, such as litigation;
The cost associated with the acquisition,
  including restructuring actions, which may require cash payments that,
  if large enough, could materially and adversely
  affect our liquidity; and
Assumption of unknown liabilities or other
  unanticipated adverse events or circumstances. 
Acquisitions present many risks, and we
may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the
time of any transaction. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to
successfully integrate any business, products, technologies or personnel that we
may acquire in the future, and our failure to do so could negatively impact our
business, financial condition and operating results. 
Our capital structure includes debt,
which imposes upon us debt service obligations and our credit facility contains
various operating and financial covenants that limit our discretion in the
operation of our business. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows
from operations to meet these debt obligations or remain in compliance with the
covenants our business, financial condition and operating results could be
materially and adversely affected. 
Our level of indebtedness presents risks
to investors, both in terms of the constraints that it places on our ability to
operate our business and because of the possibility that we may not generate
sufficient cash to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness as it
becomes due. 
Potential consequences of having debt
include:
Requiring that we dedicate a portion of our cash
  flow from operations and other capital resources to debt service, thereby reducing our ability to fund working capital,
  capital expenditures, research and development and other cash requirements;
Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or
  reacting to, changes and opportunities in the markets in which we
  compete, such as limiting our ability to engage
  in mergers and acquisitions activity, which may place us at a
  competitive disadvantage;
Mandatory field audits and control of cash
  receipts by the lender if we do not maintain average liquidity above
  certain thresholds;
Increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic
  and industry conditions;
Making it more difficult or impossible for us to
  make payments on other indebtedness or obligations; and
Limiting our ability to incur additional debt on
  acceptable terms, if at all. 
Our credit facility agreement contains
restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain certain
financial tests and ratios, as well as restrict our ability, subject to certain
thresholds, to:
Incur debt;
Incur liens;
Make acquisitions of businesses or entities or
  sell certain assets;
Make investments, including loans, guarantees and
  advances;
Engage in transactions with affiliates;
Pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases;
  and
Enter into certain restrictive agreements.

Our ability to comply with covenants
contained in this credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control,
including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions.
Our credit facility agreement is
collateralized by a pledge of all of our assets. If we were to default and were
unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, the lender would have a right to
foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the credit
agreement. Any such action on the part of the lender against us could have a
materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.
20


If the future outcomes related to the
estimates used in recording tax liabilities to various taxing authorities result
in higher tax liabilities than estimated, then we would have to record tax
charges, which could be material. 
We have provided amounts and recorded
liabilities for probable and estimable tax adjustments that may be proposed by
various taxing authorities in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. If events
occur that indicate payments of these amounts will be less than estimated, then
reversals of these liabilities would create tax benefits being recognized in the
periods when we determine the liabilities have reduced. Conversely, if events
occur which indicate that payments of these amounts will be greater than
estimated, then tax charges and additional liabilities would be recorded. In
particular, various foreign jurisdictions could challenge the characterization
or transfer pricing of certain intercompany transactions. In the event of an
unfavorable outcome of such challenge, there exists the possibility of a
material tax charge and adverse impact on the results of operations in the
period in which the matter is resolved or an unfavorable outcome becomes
probable and estimable. 
Certain changes in stock ownership could
result in a limitation on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit
carryovers that can be utilized each year. Should we undergo such a change in
stock ownership, it would severely limit the usage of these carryover tax
attributes against future income, resulting in additional tax charges, which
could be material. 
We are exposed to fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates, and an adverse change in foreign currency
exchange rates relative to our position in such currencies could have a
materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 
We do not currently use derivative
financial instruments for foreign currency hedging or speculative purposes. We
have used in the past, and may use in the future, foreign currency forward
contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. To the
extent that we have assets or liabilities denominated in a foreign currency that
are inadequately hedged or not hedged at all, we may be subject to foreign
currency losses, which could be significant.
Our international operations can act as a
natural hedge when both operating expenses and sales are denominated in local
currencies. In these instances, although an unfavorable change in the exchange
rate of a foreign currency against the U.S. dollar would result in lower sales
when translated to U.S. dollars, operating expenses would also be lower in these
circumstances. An increase in the rate at which a foreign currency is exchanged
for U.S. dollars would require more of that particular foreign currency to equal
a specified amount of U.S. dollars than before such rate increase. In such
cases, and if we were to price our products and services in that particular
foreign currency, we would receive fewer U.S. dollars than we would have
received prior to such rate increase for the foreign currency. Likewise, if we
were to price our products and services in U.S. dollars while competitors priced
their products in a local currency, an increase in the relative strength of the
U.S. dollar would result in our prices being uncompetitive in those markets.
Such fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially and adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None. 
21


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
Our headquarters are located in San Jose,
California. We lease facilities in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. The
following is a summary of the significant locations and primary functions of
those facilities as of March 31, 2012: 


Location
          
Function

North America



San Jose,
      CA

Corporate
      headquarters, sales, research and development

Irvine, CA

Administration, sales, service, research and
  development

Colorado Springs,
      CO

Operations,
      service, research and development, sales, administration

Boulder, CO

Research and development

Englewood,
      CO

Research and
      development, service, sales, operations

Mendota Heights, MN

Research and development

Richardson,
      TX

Research and
      development

Bellevue, WA

Sales and administration

Other North
      America

Sales, research
      and development

 

Europe



Paris, France

Sales

Munich, Germany

Sales and service

Zurich, Switzerland

Operations and administration

Bracknell, UK

Sales and service

Northampton, UK

Sales and service

Other Europe

Sales, service and administration

 

Asia Pacific



Adelaide, Australia

Research and development

Brisbane, Australia

Sales and administration

Shanghai, China

Sales

Tokyo, Japan

Sales and media procurement

Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Administration and customer service

Singapore City, Singapore

Sales and distribution

Other Asia Pacific

Sales
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On September 12, 2011, Compression
Technology Solutions LLC (“CTS”) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against a
group of companies, consisting of Quantum, CA., Inc., EMC Corporation,
Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corp., NetApp, Inc. and
Quest Software, Inc., in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of
Missouri, alleging that certain unspecified products of the defendants,
characterized as “deduplication software systems,” and, in the case of Quantum,
including Quantum’s “DXi Series Deduplication software,” fall within the scope
of patent 5,414,650. CTS is seeking injunctive relief, as well as the recovery
of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement. We do
not believe we infringe the CTS patent; we believe that the CTS patent is
invalid, and we intend to defend ourselves vigorously. In April 2012, our motion
to transfer venue was granted and the lawsuit was transferred to the U.S.
District Court in the Northern District of California. Due to the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, we cannot identify probable or estimable damages
related to the lawsuit. 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY
DISCLOSURES
Not applicable. 
22


PART II



ITEM 5.  
MARKET
      FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER
      PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Our common stock is traded on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol “QTM.” As of June 8, 2012, the closing price of
our common stock was $1.99 per share. The prices per share reflected in the
following table represent the range of high and low sales prices of our common
stock for the quarters indicated:


Fiscal
      2012
High
     
Low

First quarter ended June 30, 2011
$
3.53

$
2.44

Second quarter
      ended September 30, 2011

3.42


1.54

Third quarter ended December 31, 2011

2.84


1.65

Fourth quarter
      ended March 31, 2012

2.90


2.01

 

Fiscal
      2011
High

Low

First quarter ended June 30, 2010
$       
2.98

$       
1.85

Second quarter
      ended September 30, 2010

2.15


1.11

Third quarter ended December 31, 2010

4.00


1.89

Fourth quarter
      ended March 31, 2011

4.45


2.19
Historically, we have not paid cash
dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends in the
foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends is restricted by the covenants
in our senior secured revolving credit agreement unless we meet certain defined
thresholds. See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 and also Note 7
“Long-Term Debt and Convertible Subordinated Debt” to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
As of June 8, 2012, there were 1,532
Quantum stockholders of record, including the Depository Trust Company, which
holds shares of Quantum common stock on behalf of an indeterminate number of
beneficial owners. The information required by this item regarding equity
compensation plans is provided in Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.”
Performance Graph 
The following graph compares the
cumulative total return to stockholders of Quantum common stock at March 31,
2012 for the period since March 31, 2007 to the cumulative total return over
such period of (i) the NASDAQ Composite Index and (ii) the S & P Computer
Storage & Peripherals Index. The graph assumes an investment of $100 on
March 31, 2007 in our common stock and in each of the indices listed on the
graph and reflects the change in the market price of our common stock relative
to the changes in the noted indices at March 31, 2008, March 31, 2009, March 31,
2010, March 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012. The performance shown below is based on
historical data and is not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future price
performance of our common stock. 
23


COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL
RETURN*Among Quantum Corporation, the
NASDAQ Composite Index, and the S&P Computer Storage & Peripherals
Index





*$100 invested on 3/31/07 in
      stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year
      ending March 31.
Copyright© 2012 S&P, a
      division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights
    reserved.
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

This summary of selected consolidated
financial information of Quantum for fiscal 2008 to 2012 should be read together
with our Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. We have certain items that affect the comparability of the selected
financial information. Fiscal 2010 results included a $12.9 million gain on debt
extinguishment, net of costs. Fiscal 2009 results included $11.0 million of
royalty revenue from a legal settlement and a $339.0 million goodwill impairment
charge. We had a $12.6 million loss on debt extinguishment, net of costs in
fiscal 2008.



     
For the year ended March
      31,

(In thousands, except per share
      data)

2012
     
2011
     
2010
     
2009
     
2008

Statement of Operations Data:



















Total
      revenue

$       
652,370


$       
672,270

$       
681,427

$       
808,972


$       
975,702


Total cost of revenue


378,535



389,288


401,390


504,658



656,598


Gross
      margin


273,835



282,982


280,037


304,314



319,104


Income (loss) from operations


5,192



24,704


29,309


(329,925
)


(8,097
)

Net income
      (loss)


(8,809
)


4,541


16,634


(358,264
)


(60,234
)

Basic net income (loss) per share


(0.04
)


0.02


0.08


(1.71
)


(0.30
)

Diluted net
      income (loss) per share


(0.04
)


0.02


0.02


(1.71
)


(0.30
)

 



As of March 31,



2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

Balance Sheet Data:



















Total
      assets

$
395,348


$
430,965

$
504,143

$
549,369


$
1,065,725


Short-term debt


—



1,067


23,983


4,000



4,000


Long-term
      debt


184,495



238,267


305,899


404,000



496,000

24







ITEM 7.  

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND
      ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
OVERVIEW
Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”, the
“Company”, “us” or “we”), founded in 1980, is a global expert in data protection
and big data management. We provide solutions for storing and protecting
information in physical, virtual, cloud and big data environments that are
designed to help customers be certain they are maximizing the value of their
data over its entire lifecycle. With our solutions, customers can better adapt
in a world of continuing change by keeping and protecting more data for a longer
period of time while reducing costs and increasing return on investment. We work closely
with a broad network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), direct
marketing resellers (“DMRs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and
other suppliers to meet customers’ evolving data protection and big data
management needs. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol QTM.
We offer a comprehensive range of
solutions for data protection and big data management challenges providing
performance and value to end user customers of all sizes, from small businesses
to multinational enterprises. We believe our combination of expertise,
innovation and platform independence allows us to solve data protection and big
data management issues more easily, cost-effectively and securely. Our open
systems solutions are designed to provide significant storage efficiencies,
scalability and cost savings while protecting customers’ prior investments. They
include DXi® deduplication systems for high speed recovery and
reliability, Scalar® tape automation products for disaster recovery
and long-term data retention, StorNext® data management software and
appliances for high-performance big data file sharing and archiving and
vmPRO™ solutions for protecting virtual machine data. We also offer
cloud solutions for cloud-based backup, fast restore, data recovery and business
continuity. In addition, we have the global scale and scope to support our
worldwide customer base.
Business

We earn our revenue from the sale of
products, systems and services through an array of channel partners and our
sales force to reach end user customers of all sizes. Our products are sold
under both the Quantum brand name and the names of various OEM customers. We
have a broad portfolio of disk systems, software solutions, tape automation
systems, tape drives and other devices and media. Our data management software
provides technology for shared workflow applications and multi-tiered archiving
in high-performance, large-scale storage environments. We also offer vmPRO
software, a virtualization data protection software with advanced utilities
designed to dramatically improve and simplify virtual data protection in
midrange and larger data centers. We have introduced a cloud-based data
protection technology platform for public and private clouds. The majority of
our disk systems and tape automation systems include software features that
provide disk and tape integration capabilities with our core deduplication and
replication technologies. In addition, our service offerings include a broad
range of coverage options to provide the level of support for the widest
possible range of information technology (“IT”) environments. 
We have been transforming the company into
a systems and solutions provider over the past few years, introducing offerings
in the significant growth markets of disk and software data protection and big
data and archive and introducing strategic enhancements and offerings in the
tape automation market while continuing to provide service and support to new
and existing customers. We have implemented a number of initiatives in an effort
to drive branded revenue growth. One key initiative for fiscal 2012 was to grow
the independent channel for Quantum branded products. Another key area of focus
for fiscal 2012 was continuing to expand and improve our products and solutions,
with emphasis on branded disk systems and software solutions, including
introducing and ramping sales of the StorNext appliance family and virtual
offerings.
Our efforts in fiscal 2012 were reflected
in increased total branded revenue and record revenue in disk systems and
software solutions in fiscal 2012. Total branded revenue increased for the
second consecutive fiscal year and revenue from disk systems and software
solutions increased 8% from fiscal 2011. In addition, branded disk systems
revenue and branded software solutions revenue were both records, increasing 19%
and 15%, respectively, compared to the prior year. Growth of the independent
channel contributed to this revenue growth. We added a significant number of new
disk systems and software solutions customers, and in the mature tape automation
market, we added a considerable number of new customers for midrange and
enterprise tape automation products. This past fiscal year we implemented
initiatives that improved our sales team, our channel team and our technical
sales team. In addition, we improved the training and alignment with our top
channel partners on our products and solutions. 
25


We continued our technology and product
innovation in fiscal 2012. We enhanced our DXi product line, introduced a new
family of StorNext appliances and added new management, security and
availability features to our Scalar tape libraries. Following the acquisition of
Pancetera Software, Inc. (“Pancetera”) in June 2011, we integrated the
technology into our portfolio with the launch of the vmPRO virtual server
protection solutions and laid the groundwork for our cloud-based data protection
platform. The strength, value and quality of our products were recognized with
several industry awards and honors, notably for the DXi6700 and vmPRO 4000, in
addition to our enterprise and midrange tape automation libraries. 
We offer products and solutions in several
high growth markets, namely the markets for disk-based back up, big data,
virtual data protection and cloud based solutions. Our opportunity and goal in
these markets is to increase our product and solution offerings and to
significantly grow revenue from sales of our disk systems and software solutions
to increase total revenue. We project total revenue in the tape automation
market will be essentially the same over the next few years with growth in
demand for tape automation products used as a storage tier in the big data and
archive market offset by declines in demand for tape automation products in the
data protection market. Our opportunity and goal for tape automation systems is
to grow our market share with our innovative products. 
Our goal for fiscal 2013 is to grow total
revenue, driven primarily by increased revenue from our disk systems and
software solutions, with minimal expected growth in branded tape automation
revenue. We expect this revenue growth to be tempered by declines in tape
automation revenue from OEM customers and a decline in royalty
revenue.
Results 
In fiscal 2012, we saw improved revenue
momentum with our partners, especially for midrange disk systems, and our
continued efforts to increase revenue from disk systems and software solutions
resulted in an 8% increase in disk systems and software solutions revenue. We
invested significantly in our product portfolio in fiscal 2012, introducing a
number of new products, including our StorNext software appliances and virtual
systems software and data protection solutions. In fiscal 2012, we also
continued to develop new technologies that will be the framework for future new
product introductions.
We had total revenue of $652.4 million in
fiscal 2012, a 3% decrease from fiscal 2011 primarily due to expected reductions
in OEM sales, including OEM deduplication software revenue and royalty revenue.
Our product revenue from OEM customers decreased 14% while revenue from branded
products increased 3% from fiscal 2011 primarily due to increased disk systems
and software solutions revenue. Service revenue decreased primarily due to lower
hardware service contract revenues from certain legacy branded tape automation
products that reached end of service life. Our focus on growing the branded
business during the fiscal year is reflected in the greater proportion of
non-royalty revenue from our branded business, at 81% in fiscal 2012, compared
to 79% in fiscal 2011 and 74% in fiscal 2010. Royalty revenue decreased 12%
primarily due to declining royalties from older DLT media and, to a lesser
extent, from lower LTO royalties.
Our gross margin percentage decreased 10
basis points from fiscal 2011 to 42.0% largely due to a shift in our sales mix
that was comprised of less high margin OEM deduplication software revenue and
royalty revenue than the prior year, mostly offset by decreased intangible
amortization.
Operating expenses increased $11.9
million, or 5%, primarily due to increased sales and marketing expenses, largely
due to growing our branded sales force to increase branded revenue and expand
our position with existing and new channel partners to drive future growth. We
had $5.2 million in income from operations in fiscal 2012, down from $24.7
million in fiscal 2011.
Interest expense decreased in fiscal 2012
largely due to a decrease in average interest rates from refinancing
subordinated term debt in fiscal 2011. In addition during fiscal 2012, we
refinanced our senior secured term debt with a revolving credit facility with
terms that are financially more beneficial and provide additional flexibility to
run our business. During fiscal 2012, we paid $104.3 million in principal to
fully repay the senior secured term debt and borrowed $49.5 million on a new
revolving credit line. We continued to generate cash from operating activities,
with $45.7 million in fiscal 2012 compared to $52.3 million in fiscal
2011.
26


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR FISCAL 2012,
2011 AND 2010 
Revenue 




For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)

2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010


       


       
%
      ofrevenue
     


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       



       


       



       



Product revenue

$     
451,340

69.2
%

$     
456,903

68.0
%

$     
456,101

66.9
%

$     
(5,563
)

(1.2
)%

$     
802


0.2
%

Service revenue


144,364

22.1
%


151,095

22.5
%


156,477

23.0
%


(6,731
)

(4.5
)%


(5,382
)

(3.4
)%

Royalty revenue


56,666

8.7
%


64,272

9.5
%


68,849

10.1
%


(7,606
)

(11.8
)%


(4,577
)

(6.6
)%

Total revenue

$
652,370

100.0
%

$
672,270

100.0
%

$
681,427

100.0
%

$
(19,900
)

(3.0
)%

$
(9,157
)

(1.3
)%
Total revenue decreased in fiscal 2012
compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to expected reductions in OEM and royalty
revenue. The largest decreases in OEM revenue were from lower deduplication
software, tape automation products, devices and service revenue. Partially
offsetting these decreases were increased sales of branded disk systems and
software solutions in fiscal 2012.
Total revenue decreased in fiscal 2011
compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to expected reductions in OEM, service and
royalty revenue. We had a slight increase in product revenue in fiscal
2011 primarily due to increased sales of disk systems and software solutions
revenue, largely offset by expected reductions in OEM devices and media revenue
from a number of devices reaching end of life and expected decreases in OEM tape
automation systems revenue.
Product Revenue




For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010





       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       



       


       



       



Disk systems and software
solutions

$    
119,044

18.2
%

$    
110,678

16.5
%

$    
83,508

12.3
%

$     
8,366


7.6
%

$    
27,170


32.5
%

Tape
      automation systems


245,030

37.6
%


254,153

37.8
%


263,977

38.7
%


(9,123
)

(3.6
)%


(9,824
)

(3.7
)%

Devices and media


87,266

13.4
%


92,072

13.7
%


108,616

15.9
%


(4,806
)

(5.2
)%


(16,544
)

(15.2
)%

Total product revenue

$
451,340

69.2
%

$
456,903

68.0
%

$
456,101

66.9
%

$
(5,563
)

(1.2
)%

$
802


0.2
%
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

Our product revenue, which includes sales
of our hardware and software products sold through both our Quantum branded and
OEM channels, decreased slightly from fiscal 2011, primarily due to decreased
sales of tape automation systems and devices and media, mostly offset by
increased revenue from disk systems and software solutions. Revenue from sales
of branded products increased 3% in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011
primarily due to increased sales of disk systems and software
solutions.
A primary goal for fiscal 2012 was to grow
revenue from disk systems and software solutions. We introduced new disk
products, a new product line of StorNext appliances and released upgrades to
both disk systems and to software solutions in fiscal 2012, all of which
contributed to fiscal 2012 revenue. We continued our efforts to expand
engagement with our channel partners to increase sales of disk systems and
software solutions. Revenue from disk systems and software solutions increased
8% to $119.0 million in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011, primarily due to
increased midrange disk product sales followed by the addition of StorNext
appliances. Midrange disk systems revenue increases were primarily due to the
addition of revenue from our DXi6701 and DXi6702 products. Tempering these
increases was an expected decrease in OEM deduplication software revenue due to
our primary OEM deduplication software customer becoming a competitor in fiscal
2010 and revenue recognized in accordance with contractual requirements in
fiscal 2011 that was not repeated.
27


Tape automation systems sales decreased
$9.1 million, or 4%, in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. This decrease was
primarily due to expected declines in OEM revenue, followed by decreased branded
enterprise and entry-level tape automation systems revenue. 
Product revenue from devices, including
tape drives and removable hard drives, and non-royalty media sales decreased 5%
to $87.3 million primarily due to anticipated decreases in sales of older
branded and OEM device technologies that reached, or are nearing, end of life.
Largely offsetting the decrease was an increase in branded media revenue
primarily due to the events in Japan in March 2011 and resulting concern of
shortages and supply disruption in the market. We continue to be strategic with
media sales and have chosen to not pursue opportunities that do not provide
sufficient margins.
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

Product revenue in fiscal 2011 increased
slightly from fiscal 2010, primarily due to increased sales of disk systems and
software solutions, mostly offset by anticipated decreases in devices and media
and tape automation systems. Revenue from sales of branded products increased 7%
in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 also primarily due to increased sales of
disk systems and software solutions.
A primary goal for fiscal 2011 was to grow
revenue from disk systems and software solutions. We introduced new disk
products and upgrades to both disk systems and to software solutions in fiscal
2011, and we also worked to expand engagement with our channel partners to
increase sales of disk systems and software solutions. Revenue from disk systems
and software solutions increased 33% to $110.7 million in fiscal 2011 compared
to fiscal 2010, primarily due to increased midrange disk product sales. Midrange
disk systems revenue nearly tripled from fiscal 2010 primarily due to the
addition of revenue from our DXi6700 product family and increased sales of the
DXi6500 product family. In addition, StorNext software revenue also continued to
increase compared to prior years. As a result of these revenue increases, disk
systems and software solutions comprised a greater proportion of both product
revenue and total revenue in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010.
Tape automation systems sales decreased
$9.8 million, or 4%, in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. This decrease was
primarily due to expected declines in OEM revenues from our decision to exit
portions of this market in prior years as well as declining demand in the
overall tape automation market. We had a smaller decrease in branded tape
automation systems revenue due to declines in enterprise and midrange product
sales mostly offset by increased entry-level product sales from the addition of
the Scalar i40 and i80 products. 
Product revenue from devices and
non-royalty media sales decreased 15% to $92.1 million primarily due to
anticipated decreases in sales of older OEM device technologies that reached, or
are nearing, end of life. We continued to be strategic with media sales in
fiscal 2011 and chose to not pursue opportunities that would not provide
sufficient margins. Media revenues were approximately the same as fiscal
2010.
Service Revenue
Service revenue includes revenue from
sales of hardware service contracts, product repair, installation and
professional services. Hardware service contracts are typically purchased by our
customers to extend the warranty or to provide faster service response time, or
both. Service revenue decreased 4% to $144.4 million in fiscal 2012 compared to
fiscal 2011 primarily due to lower hardware service contract revenues from end
of service life on higher revenue service contracts for certain legacy branded
tape automation products and to a lesser extent from decreased OEM product
repair services. Service contracts on certain newer technology branded products
provide lower revenue than service contracts on older technology branded
products nearing end of service life. OEM service revenue decreases are
primarily due to a number of our device products that reached end of service
life in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012.
Service revenue decreased 3% to $151.1
million in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to planned
decreases in OEM product repair services and, to a lesser extent, reduced
hardware service contracts from our OEM customers. OEM service revenue decreases
are due to many of our device products that reached, or are nearing, end of
service life. Service revenue from our branded products was approximately the
same as fiscal 2010.
28


Royalty Revenue 
Royalty revenue declined 12%, or $7.6
million, in fiscal 2012 and decreased 7%, or $4.6 million, in fiscal 2011
primarily due to expected decreases of maturing DLT media unit sales by media
licensees in both fiscal years. Royalties from LTO media decreased 4% in fiscal
2012 primarily due to decreased LTO media unit sales by media licensees. In
fiscal 2011, the DLT royalty decrease was partially offset by increased
royalties from LTO media.
Gross Margin




For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)

2012

2011
 
2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010


       
Margin
       
MarginRate
       
Margin
       
MarginRate
       
Margin
       
MarginRate
       



       


       



       



Product gross margin

$     
160,964


35.7
%

$
162,528


35.6
%

$
155,533

34.1
%

$
(1,564
)

(1.0
)%

$
6,995


4.5
%

Service gross margin


55,905


38.7
%


56,784


37.6
%


55,655

35.6
%


(879
)

(1.5
)%


1,129


2.0
%

Royalty gross margin


56,666


100.0
%


64,272


100.0
%


68,849

100.0
%


(7,606
)

(11.8
)%


(4,577
)

(6.6
)%

Gross margin

$
273,835
*

42.0
%

$    
      
282,982
*

42.1
%

$    
      
280,037

41.1
%

$    
      
(9,147
)

(3.2
)%

$    
      
2,945


1.1
%
* Fiscal 2012 total gross margin includes
a $0.3 million restructuring benefit related to cost of revenue and fiscal 2011
total gross margin includes $0.6 million of restructuring charges related to
cost of revenue. 
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal
2011
The 10 basis point decrease in gross
margin percentage in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was due to largely
offsetting factors. Gross margin decreased due to less high margin revenue in
our product mix, largely from decreased OEM deduplication software revenue and
royalty revenue. Both OEM deduplication software and royalty revenue provide
among the highest margins of our portfolio. Gross margin was favorably impacted
by lower intangible amortization from certain intangibles becoming fully
amortized in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012.
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

The 100 basis point increase in gross
margin percentage in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was largely due to
lower intangible amortization from certain intangibles becoming fully amortized
in the first half of fiscal 2011. In addition, gross margin was favorably
impacted by the continued shift in sales mix toward higher margin products and
services. Product sales through our branded channels comprised a higher
percentage of non-royalty revenue in fiscal 2011 than fiscal 2010. Branded sales
comprised 79% of non-royalty revenue in fiscal 2011, compared to 74% for fiscal
2010. Sales of branded products typically generate higher gross margins than
sales to our OEM customers; however, as noted above, OEM deduplication software
revenue provides one of our highest product margins. Contributing to the change
in our revenue mix in fiscal 2011 was our emphasis on sales growth of our disk
systems and software solutions which increased to 17% of revenue in fiscal 2011
compared to 12% of revenue in the prior year. The gross margin percentage
increase was tempered by the $4.6 million decrease in royalty revenue.

Product Gross Margin 
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal
2011
Product gross margin dollars decreased 1%
in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to the 1% decrease in
product revenue. However, product gross margin percentage improved
slightly from fiscal 2011. The product gross margin increase was primarily due to
a $7.1 million decrease in intangible amortization in fiscal 2012, mostly offset
by the decrease in high margin OEM deduplication software revenue compared to
fiscal 2011. 
29


Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

Product gross margin dollars increased
$7.0 million, or 5%, and product gross margin percentage improved approximately
150 basis points from fiscal 2010 although product revenue was approximately the
same in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010. These margin increases were
primarily due to a $7.4 million decrease in intangible amortization in fiscal
2011. Product gross margin was also favorably impacted by the change in our
product revenue mix compared to fiscal 2010. Revenue from branded product sales
increased 7% in fiscal 2011. In addition, revenue from disk systems and software
solutions increased to 24% of product revenue in fiscal 2011, compared to 18% of
product revenue in fiscal 2010. Offsetting the change in product revenue mix was
increased warranty expense due to warranty benefits in fiscal 2010 compared to
warranty expense in fiscal 2011. Warranty benefits in the prior year were
attributable to decreasing overall service and repair costs, a declining number
of in-warranty units repaired and numerous products reaching the end of their
warranty coverage. 
Service Gross Margin 
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal
2011
Service gross margin dollars decreased
$0.9 million, or approximately 2%, in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. Our
service gross margin percentage increased 110 basis points to 38.7% in fiscal
2012, largely due to decreased external provider expenses and inventory
allowance expense. External service provider expense decreased due to a
combination of bringing repair of additional product lines in-house and
negotiating lower rates on the renewals of contracts with certain service
providers in fiscal 2012. We had higher inventory allowance expense in fiscal
2011 due to end of service life plans for several products. In addition, we had
a change in the mix of services for OEM repairs and for our branded products
under contract. Our service activities for fiscal 2012 reflected a greater
proportion of revenue from branded products under contract, which have
relatively higher margins than margins for OEM repair services.
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal
2010
Service gross margin dollars increased
$1.1 million, or approximately 2%, despite a 3% reduction in service revenue in
fiscal 2011 compared to the prior year. Additionally, our service gross margin
percentage increased 200 basis points to 37.6% in fiscal 2011 from 35.6% in
fiscal 2010, primarily due to expense reductions in our service delivery model.
In addition, branded service revenue comprised a larger proportion of service
revenue in fiscal 2011 than in fiscal 2010 primarily due to declines in repairs
for OEM customers. We reduced expense in our service delivery model by repairing
certain product lines in our facilities at a lower cost in fiscal 2011 than we
incurred with external service providers in prior years.
Research and Development Expenses





For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010





       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       


       


       



Research and development

$     
74,365

11.4
%

$     
73,008

10.9
%

$     
69,949

10.3
%

$     
1,357

1.9
%

$     
3,059

4.4
%
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

The increase in research and development
expenses for fiscal 2012 was primarily due to a $1.7 million increase in
salaries and benefits from investment in our disk systems software and hardware
and our virtual systems engineering teams to support new product development
efforts. Partially offsetting this increase was a $0.5 million decrease in
travel expenses compared to the prior year. 
30


Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

The increase in research and development
expenses for fiscal 2011 was primarily due to a $3.7 million increase in
salaries and benefits from investment in our disk systems and software
engineering teams to support new product development efforts. Partially
offsetting this increase was a $0.8 million decrease in project materials due to
the types of products under development and related testing material
requirements compared to the prior year. 
Sales and Marketing Expenses





For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010





       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       


       


       



Sales and marketing

$     
130,938

20.1
%

$     
122,768

18.3
%

$     
114,612

16.8
%

$     
8,170

6.7
%

$     
8,156

7.1
%
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

Sales and marketing expenses increased in
fiscal 2012 primarily due to a $7.2 million increase in salaries and benefits,
including commissions. Commissions increased due to increased branded product
revenue and salaries and benefits increased largely due to growing our branded
sales force. In addition, travel expenses increased $1.0 million due in part to
increased airfare and fuel costs, incremental travel by our sales engineers to
support customer sales and increased travel for sales training events to expand
our position with existing and new channel partners to drive future
growth.
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

Sales and marketing expenses increased in
fiscal 2011 primarily due to a $5.4 million increase in salaries and benefits
from growing our branded sales force and marketing team. In addition,
advertising and marketing expenditures increased by $1.8 million from supporting
new product introductions and efforts to expand our position with existing and
new channel partners to drive future growth.
General and Administrative Expenses





For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010





       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       


       



       



General and administrative

$     
62,910

9.6
%

$     
59,460

8.8
%

$     
61,372

9.0
%

$     
3,450

5.8
%

$     
(1,912
)

(3.1
)%
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

The increase in general and administrative
expenses was primarily due to a $2.2 million increase in salaries and benefits
primarily from increased stock compensation expense due to equity grants related
to promotions and merit increases. In addition, we had $1.4 million in credits
in fiscal 2011 primarily due to accounts receivable recoveries and a litigation
settlement that were not repeated.
We may incur higher than typical legal
costs in fiscal 2013 to defend ourselves while a patent infringement lawsuit
brought by Compression Technology Solutions LLC (“CTS”) is ongoing. The CTS
lawsuit is discussed in more detail in Note 13 “Commitments and Contingencies”
under Legal Proceedings. Due to the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we
cannot identify probable or estimable damages related to the lawsuit at this
time.
31


Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

The decrease in general and administrative
expenses was primarily due to a $1.0 million decrease in net VAT expense
primarily due to provisions for VAT audits during fiscal 2010 that were not
repeated in fiscal 2011. In addition, we had a $0.8 million decrease in legal
expenses compared to fiscal 2010.
Restructuring Charges 




For the year ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)

2012

2011

2010

2012 vs. 2011

2011 vs.
    2010







%
      ofrevenue



     
%
      ofrevenue




%
      ofrevenue












Restructuring charges (benefit) related to
      cost of revenue
     
$    
(300
)
     
0.0
%
     
$    
602

0.1
%
     
$    
—
     
—
%
     
$    
(902
)
     
(149.8
)%
     
$    
602
 
      
      
n/a


Restructuring charges in operating expenses


1,930


0.3
%


3,042

0.5
%


4,795

0.7
%


(1,112
)

(36.6
)%


(1,753
)

(36.6
)%

Total restructuring charges

$
1,630


0.2
%

$
3,644

0.5
%

$
4,795

0.7
%

$
(2,014
)

(55.3
)%

$
(1,151
)

(24.0
)%
Our restructuring actions are steps
undertaken to reduce costs in an effort to return to consistent profitability.
In fiscal 2011 and 2012, restructuring actions to consolidate operations
supporting our business were the result of strategic management decisions. In
fiscal 2010, restructuring actions to consolidate operations supporting our
business were primarily in response to the global recession. For additional
information and disclosure of restructuring charges refer to Note 8
“Restructuring Charges” to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Until we
achieve consistent and sustainable levels of profitability, we may incur
restructuring charges in the future from additional cost reduction efforts.

Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

The decrease in restructuring charges in
fiscal 2012 was due to a $2.0 million decrease in severance charges due to fewer
positions eliminated during the year as a result of strategic management
decisions and a $0.9 million decrease in restructuring charges related to cost
of revenue due to lower actual costs than estimated to exit a supplier
relationship. Partially offsetting these decreases was a $0.9 million increase
in facility restructuring charges due to negotiating a $0.3 million settlement
for a lease liability on a vacated facility in India in fiscal 2012 and $0.6
million in credits in fiscal 2011 primarily due to negotiating settlements for
lease liabilities for amounts lower than the outstanding lease
contracts.
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

The decrease in restructuring charges in
fiscal 2011 was primarily due to a $5.3 million decrease in facility
restructuring charges from vacating and accruing the remaining contractual lease
payments on four facilities in fiscal 2010 as well as negotiating settlements
for lease liabilities on two vacated facilities in the U.S. for amounts lower
than the outstanding lease contracts in fiscal 2011. Partially offsetting this
decrease was a $3.0 million increase in severance and benefits expense as a
result of strategic management decisions to consolidate operations supporting
our business in fiscal 2011. The restructuring charges related to cost of
revenue were costs from exiting a supplier relationship in fiscal 2011.

Gain on Sale of Patents 




For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010





       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       

       


       



Gain on sale of patents

$     
1,500

0.2
%

$     
—

—
%

$     
—

—
%

$     
1,500

n/a

$     
—

—
%
During fiscal 2012, we had a $1.5 million
gain on the sale of patents. Under the patent sale agreement, we retain a
royalty-free license for these patents. We may enter into similar transactions
in the future.
32


Other Income and Expense




For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs.
      2011

2011 vs.
      2010





       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       
%
      ofrevenue
       


       

       


       



Other income and (expense)

$     
(118)

0.0
%

$     
1,199

0.2
%

$     
1,255

0.2
%

$     
(1,317)

(109.8)%

$     
(56)

(4.5)
%
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

Other income and expense decreased
primarily due to a $1.6 million net decrease in investment gains from fiscal
2011, largely due to gains from private technology venture limited partnerships
that were not repeated. In addition, we had a $0.4 million net increase in
foreign exchange losses primarily due to the U.S. dollar strengthening against
the euro in fiscal 2012. These were partially offset by $0.9 million in fees for
an amendment to our senior secured credit agreement in fiscal 2011 that were not
repeated. 
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

Other income and expense was relatively
unchanged in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 from the net result of
offsetting changes. We had a $1.2 million decrease from fair value gains on an
interest rate collar in fiscal 2010 that expired in fiscal 2010 and $0.9 million
in fees for an amendment to our senior secured credit agreement in fiscal 2011.
These were offset by a $0.9 million net increase in foreign exchange gains
primarily due to the U.S. dollar weakening against the Australian dollar and the
euro in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 and a net increase of $0.9 million
in investment gains on private technology venture limited
partnerships.
Interest Expense 




For the year ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in
      thousands)
       
2012

2011

2010

2012 vs. 2011

2011 vs. 2010





       
%
      of
       


       
%
      of
       


       
%
      of
       


       

       


       








revenue




revenue




revenue












Interest expense

$    
      
10,686

1.6
%

$    
      
20,163

3.0
%

$    
      
25,515

3.7
%

$    
      
(9,477)

(47.0)%

$    
      
(5,352)

(21.0)
%
Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011

Interest expense decreased in fiscal 2012
compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to decreased average interest rates from
refinancing subordinated term debt that had a 12% interest rate with 3.5%
convertible subordinated notes issued in November 2010. In addition, we had a
lower senior secured term debt balance in fiscal 2012 than fiscal 2011 which
also contributed to decreased interest expense.
Fiscal 2011 Compared to Fiscal 2010

Interest expense decreased in fiscal 2011
compared to fiscal 2010 primarily due to decreased average interest rates from
refinancing subordinated term debt with 3.5% convertible subordinated notes
issued in November 2010. In addition, we reduced our outstanding senior secured
term debt balance by $81.7 million and this term debt had lower interest rates
compared to fiscal 2010, both of which contributed to decreased interest
expense.
In addition to the items noted above,
interest expense includes the amortization of debt issuance costs for debt
facilities. For further information, refer to Note 7 “Long-Term Debt and
Convertible Subordinated Debt” to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
33



Gain (Loss) on Debt Extinguishment,
Net




For the year ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in
      thousands)

2012

2011

2010

2012 vs. 2011

2011 vs. 2010


      


      
%
      ofrevenue
      


      
%
      ofrevenue
      


      
%
      ofrevenue
      


      

      


      


Gain (loss) on debt extinguishment, net

$   
    
(2,310)

    (0.4)%

$   
    
(1,186)

    (0.2)%

$    
12,859

    1.9%

$   
    
(1,124)

(94.8)%

$   
    
(14,045)

(109.2)%
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012,
we fully repaid our senior secured term loan with Credit Suisse using cash on
hand and borrowings of $49.5 million from a new credit facility with Wells
Fargo. In connection with this debt extinguishment, we wrote off $2.3 million of
unamortized debt costs related to the Credit Suisse credit agreement.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2011,
we fully repaid outstanding subordinated term loans by issuing $135 million
aggregate principal of 3.50% convertible subordinated notes. In connection with
this debt extinguishment, we wrote off $1.2 million of unamortized debt costs
related to the subordinated term loans. 
During fiscal 2010, we refinanced $137.9
million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 4.75% convertible
subordinated debt, consisting of $87.2 million through a tender offer and $50.7
million in a private transaction. In connection with these transactions, we
recorded a gain on debt extinguishment, net of costs, of $12.9 million comprised
of a gross gain of $15.6 million, reduced by $2.1 million in expenses and $0.6
million of unamortized debt costs related to the refinanced notes.
Income Taxes 




For the year
      ended March 31,

Change

(dollars in thousands)
      
2012
      
2011
      
2010
      
2012 vs.
      2011
      
2011 vs.
      2010





      
% ofpre-tax
      loss



      
% ofpre-tax
      income

 
 
      
% ofpre-tax
      income



      




      


Income tax provision

$    
887

(11.2)%

$    
13

0.3%

$    
1,274

7.1%

$    
874

n/m

$    
(1,261)

(99.0)%

The $0.9 million increase in tax expense
in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to the release in
fiscal 2011 of $0.9 million in tax liabilities in foreign jurisdictions that
were not repeated. The $1.3 million decrease in tax expense in fiscal 2011
compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to the release of $0.9 million in tax
liabilities in foreign jurisdictions in fiscal 2011. Tax expense in fiscal 2012
and fiscal 2010 was primarily comprised of foreign income taxes and state taxes.
Tax expense in fiscal 2011 was primarily comprised of foreign income taxes and
state taxes, offset by the release of tax liabilities in foreign jurisdictions
due to a favorable settlement and expiration of statutes of
limitation.
Amortization of Intangible Assets

The following table details intangible
asset amortization expense by classification within our Consolidated Statements
of Operations (in thousands): 




For the year ended March 31,

Change


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010
      
2012 vs. 2011
      
2011 vs. 2010

Cost of revenue

$      
7,583

$      
14,662

$      
22,069

$      
(7,079
)
      
(48.3
)%

$      
(7,407
)
      
(33.6
)%

Research and development


—


200


400


(200
)

(100.0
)%


(200
)

(50.0
)%

Sales and
    marketing


13,128


13,419


13,575


(291
)

(2.2
)%


(156
)

(1.2
)%

General and administrative


32


100


100


(68
)

(68.0
)%


—


—
%



$
20,743

$
28,381

$
36,144

$
(7,638
)

(26.9
)%

$
(7,763
)

(21.5
)%
34


The decreased intangible asset
amortization in fiscal 2012 and 2011 compared to the respective prior years was
due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized. Refer to Note 5
“Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information regarding our amortizable intangible assets. 
Share-Based Compensation

The following table summarizes share-based
compensation within our Consolidated Statements of Operations (in thousands):





For the year ended March 31,

Change


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010
      
2012 vs. 2011

2011 vs. 2010

Cost of revenue

$      
2,203

$      
1,768

$      
1,366

$      
435
      
24.6
%
      
$      
402

      
29.4
%

Research and development


3,250


2,486


2,373


764

30.7
%


113


4.8
%

Sales and
    marketing


4,048


3,121


2,581


927

29.7
%


540


20.9
%

General and administrative


4,236


3,046


3,469


1,190

39.1
%


(423
)

(12.2
)%



$
13,737

$
10,421

$
9,789

$
3,316

31.8
%

$
632


6.5
%
The increase in share-based compensation
expense in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011 was primarily due to a $3.7
million increase in expense related to restricted stock units due to more
restricted stock units granted for employee performance merit increases at a
higher grant-date stock price in fiscal 2012 than fiscal 2011. In addition we
had a $0.6 million increase in expense related to the employee stock purchase
plan (“ESPP”) due to increased participation in fiscal 2012. This was partially
offset by a $1.0 million decrease in expense related to options due to more
options vesting in fiscal 2012 than were replaced by new option grants.

The increase in share-based compensation
expense in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to the
reinstatement of the ESPP in January 2010. Share-based compensation expense
related to the ESPP increased $1.2 million in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal
2010 due to the cancellation of the ESPP for the majority of fiscal 2010. The
increase was partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in expense related to
our restricted stock units as more restricted stock vested in fiscal 2011 than
was replaced by new restricted stock unit grants. 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements

See Recent Accounting Pronouncements in
Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements
including the respective expected dates of adoption and effects on our results
of operations and financial condition.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES





As of or for the year ended March
      31,

(In thousands)
 
      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Cash and cash equivalents

$      
51,261


$      
76,010


$      
114,947


Net income
(loss)


(8,809
)


4,541



16,634


Net
      cash provided by operating activities


45,660



52,327



100,164


Net cash used in investing
      activities


(21,974
)


(10,103
)


(8,541
)

Net
      cash used in financing activities


(48,353
)


(81,286
)


(62,398
)
Fiscal 2012 
The $54.5 million difference between
reported net loss and cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2012 was
primarily due to $60.4 million of non-cash expenses, including $23.1 million in
amortization, $13.7 million in share-based compensation, $11.8 million in
depreciation and $10.7 million in service parts lower of cost or market
adjustment. In addition, we had an $8.1 million increase in deferred revenue
primarily due to increased sales of service contracts. Partially offsetting
these was a $21.4 million use of cash from increased manufacturing inventories
primarily due to purchasing materials to build and configure new
products and securing hard disk drives in light of supply constraints from
flooding in Thailand earlier in the fiscal year.
35


Cash used in investing activities during
fiscal 2012 was primarily due to $11.4 million in purchases of property and
equipment and $8.2 million of cash paid, net of cash acquired, for our
acquisition of Pancetera. Equipment purchases were primarily for engineering
equipment and testing hardware to support product development
activities.
Cash used in financing activities during
fiscal 2012 was primarily due to net debt repayments of $55.8 million, including
$104.3 million to fully repay our senior secured term debt. We refinanced a
portion of the senior secured term debt with a new revolving credit facility in
fiscal 2012. This refinancing is described in more detail below in Capital
Resources and Financial Condition. Partially offsetting cash used in financing
activities was $10.4 million in proceeds received from the exercise of stock
options and issuance of shares under the employee stock purchase
plan.
Fiscal 2011 
The $47.8 million difference between
reported net income and cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2011 was
primarily due to $67.5 million of non-cash expenses, including $30.3 million in
amortization, $13.8 million in service parts lower of cost or market adjustment,
$11.7 million in depreciation and $10.4 million in share-based compensation.
These noncash expenses were partially offset by a $14.9 million increase in
accounts receivable primarily due to increased sales of products and service
billings in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 compared to the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2010. 
Cash used in investing activities during
fiscal 2011 was primarily due to $12.3 million in purchases of property and
equipment. Equipment purchases were primarily for engineering test equipment to
support product development activities.
Cash used in financing activities during
fiscal 2011 was primarily due to net debt repayments of $95.5 million, including
$81.7 million of principal on our senior secured term debt. We refinanced
subordinated term loans with 3.50% convertible subordinated debt in fiscal 2011,
and the repayment of this long-term debt was offset by borrowings of convertible
subordinated debt, net. For additional information regarding this refinancing,
see Note 7 “Long-Term Debt and Convertible Subordinated Debt” to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, we received $16.5 million from
the issuance of common stock. 
Fiscal 2010 
The $83.5 million difference between
reported net income and cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2010 was
primarily due to $71.3 million of non-cash expenses comprised of $38.5 million
in amortization, $12.1 million in depreciation, $11.4 million in service parts
lower of cost or market adjustment and $9.8 million in share-based compensation.
These non-cash expenses were partially offset by a $15.6 million non-cash gain
on debt extinguishment. Cash provided by operating activities was also due to an
$11.5 million increase in accounts payable from the timing of payments and from
increased purchases at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. In
addition, we had a $9.5 million increase in deferred revenue primarily from
prepaid license fees under an OEM agreement. 
Cash used in investing activities during
fiscal 2010 was primarily due to $8.6 million in purchases of property and
equipment. Equipment purchases were comprised of engineering, IT and marketing
equipment to support product development initiatives. We also upgraded a data
center and invested in leasehold improvements in another facility in fiscal
2010. 
Cash used in financing activities during
fiscal 2010 was primarily due to repaying $61.9 million of our senior secured
term debt. We refinanced a majority of our 4.375% convertible subordinated debt
during the first half of fiscal 2010, and repayments of these notes were offset
by borrowings of long-term debt, net, under two subordinated term loan
agreements.
Capital Resources and Financial
Condition 
We continue to focus on improving our
operating performance, including increasing revenue in higher margin areas of
the business and continuing to improve margins in an effort to return to
consistent profitability and to generate positive cash flows from operating
activities. We believe that our existing cash and capital resources will be
sufficient to meet all currently planned expenditures, debt service, contractual
obligations and sustain operations for at least the next 12 months. This belief
is dependent upon our ability to achieve revenue and gross margin projections
and to continue to control operating expenses in order to provide
positive cash flow from operating activities. Should any of the above
assumptions prove incorrect, either in combination or individually, it would
likely have a material negative effect on our cash balances and capital
resources.
36


The following is a description of our
existing capital resources including outstanding balances, funds available to
borrow, and primary repayment terms including interest rates. For additional
information, see Note 7 “Long-Term Debt and Convertible Subordinated Debt” to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
On March 29, 2012, we refinanced the
senior secured credit agreement with Credit Suisse (“CS credit agreement”) by
entering into a senior secured credit agreement with Wells Fargo Capital
Finance, LLC (“Wells Fargo”) providing a revolving credit facility up to $75
million (“WF credit agreement”). The WF credit agreement matures March 29, 2017,
or August 16, 2015 if our convertible subordinated notes remain outstanding on
that date. We borrowed $49.5 million on March 29, 2012 to repay all borrowings
under the CS credit agreement.
Under the WF credit agreement, we may
borrow on a revolving basis amounts to be used to refinance all debts under our
CS credit agreement as well as for general purposes. The maximum principal
amount that may be borrowed is the lesser of $75 million, reduced by $1.0
million per quarter commencing July 1, 2012, or the amount of the monthly
borrowing base. The monthly borrowing base is comprised of a cash component, an
accounts receivable component and an inventory component. We may prepay all or a
portion of any amounts borrowed without penalty or premium.
The interest rate on amounts borrowed is
based on an election by us of an annual rate equal to (1) a base rate
established by Wells Fargo plus an applicable margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on
availability levels under the WF credit agreement or (2) the LIBOR rate plus an
applicable margin ranging from 2.0% and 2.5%, based on availability levels under
the WF credit agreement. The base rate is defined in the WF credit agreement.

At March 31, 2012, we had $49.5 million
outstanding borrowings at an interest rate of 4.50%, and subsequently elected
the LIBOR rate plus applicable margin on April 5, 2012, bringing the interest
rate to 2.72%. In addition, we have letters of credit totaling $0.1 million,
reducing the amount available to borrow on the revolver to $25.4 million at
March 31, 2012. Quarterly, we are required to pay a 0.375% commitment fee on
undrawn amounts under the revolving credit facility. 
The WF credit agreement contains customary
covenants, including cross-default provisions, as well as financial covenants
that require the fixed charge coverage ratio to be greater than 1.20 for the 12
month period ending on the last day of any month and average liquidity for the
most recently completed month of at least $15 million during the period
commencing on March 29, 2012 and ending on September 30, 2012, increasing to $20
million on October 1, 2012. In addition, to avoid triggering mandatory field
audits and Wells Fargo controlling our cash receipts, we must maintain average
liquidity of at least $20 million during the period commencing on March 29, 2012
and ending on September 30, 2012, increasing to $25 million on October 1, 2012.
There is also a blanket lien on all of our assets under a security agreement
with Wells Fargo. As of March 31, 2012, we were in compliance with all
covenants.
In addition we have $135 million aggregate
principal amount of 3.50% convertible subordinated notes due November 15, 2015
outstanding, the terms of which are governed by an agreement between Quantum and
U.S. Bank National Association. We are required to make semi-annual interest
payments on these notes.
Generation of positive cash flow from
operating activities has historically been, and will continue to be, an
important source of cash to fund operating needs and meet our current and
long-term obligations. We have taken many actions in recent years to offset the
negative impact of the recession and slow economic recovery and their impact on
the data protection and big data and archive markets. We cannot provide
assurance that the actions we have taken in the past or any actions we may take
in the future will ensure a consistent, sustainable and sufficient level of net
income and positive cash flow from operating activities to fund, sustain or grow
our business. Certain events that are beyond our control, including prevailing
economic, competitive and industry conditions, as well as various legal and
other disputes, may prevent us from achieving these financial objectives. Any
inability to achieve consistent and sustainable net income and cash flow could
result in:


(i)
      
Restrictions on our ability to
      manage or fund our existing operations, which could result in a material
      and adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial
      condition.

 

(ii)
      
Unwillingness on the part of
      Wells Fargo to do any of the following:
Provide a waiver or amendment for any covenant
  violations we may experience in future periods, thereby triggering a default under, or termination of, the revolving
  credit line, or
Approve any amendments to the credit agreement we
  may seek to obtain in the future. 
37






Any lack of renewal, waiver,
      or amendment, if needed, could result in the revolving credit line
      becoming unavailable to us and any amounts outstanding becoming
      immediately due and payable. In the case of our borrowings at March 31,
      2012, this would mean $49.5 million could become immediately
      payable.



 

(iii)
    
      
Further impairment of our
      financial flexibility, which could require us to raise additional funding
      in the capital markets sooner than we otherwise would, and on terms less
      favorable to us, if available at all.
Any of the above mentioned items,
individually or in combination, could have a material and adverse effect on our
results of operations, available cash and cash flows, financial condition,
access to capital and liquidity.
Off Balance Sheet
Arrangements 
Lease Commitments 
We lease certain facilities under
non-cancelable lease agreements. Some of the leases have renewal options ranging
from one to ten years and others contain escalation clauses and provisions for
maintenance, taxes or insurance. We also have equipment leases for computers and
other office equipment. Future minimum lease payments under these operating
leases are shown below in the “Contractual Obligations” section. 
Commitments to Purchase Inventory

We use contract manufacturers for certain
manufacturing functions. Under these arrangements, the contract manufacturer
procures inventory to manufacture products based upon our forecast of customer
demand. We have similar arrangements with certain other suppliers. We are
responsible for the financial impact on the supplier of any reduction or product
mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that the supplier had already
purchased under a prior forecast. Such a variance in forecasted demand could
require a cash payment for inventory in excess of current customer demand or for
costs of excess or obsolete inventory. As of March 31, 2012, we had issued
non-cancelable purchase commitments for $34.3 million to purchase inventory from
our suppliers. 
Stock Repurchases 
As of March 31, 2012, there was $87.9
million remaining under our authorization to repurchase Quantum common stock. No
stock repurchases were made during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010. Our ability to repurchase our common stock is restricted unless we
meet certain thresholds under the terms of the WF credit agreement. 
Contractual Obligations 
The table below summarizes our contractual
obligations as of March 31, 2012 (in thousands): 




Payments Due by Period


      
Less than1 year
      
1 – 3 years
      
3 – 5 years
      
More than5 years
      
Total

Convertible subordinated
      debt

$      
4,725

$      
9,450

$      
139,725

$      
—

$      
153,900

Long-term debt


1,346


2,692


52,186


—


56,224

Purchase
    obligations


34,259


—


—


—


34,259

Operating leases


12,285


19,150


12,524


18,411


62,370

Total contractual cash
      obligations

$
52,615

$
31,292

$
204,435

$
18,411

$
306,753
The contractual commitments shown above
include $25.6 million in interest payments on our various debt obligations based
on current interest rates. The interest rate on the long-term debt can vary over
the term of the loan.
38


As of March 31, 2012, we had $5.2 million
of long-term tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, for which we cannot
make a reasonably reliable estimate of when payments are likely to occur.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND
POLICIES 
Our discussion and analysis of the
financial condition and results of operations is based on the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of these
statements requires us to make significant estimates and judgments about future
uncertainties that affect reported assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses
and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on
various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our
significant accounting policies are presented within Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Our critical accounting estimates require the most
difficult, subjective or complex judgments and are described below. An
accounting estimate is considered critical if it requires estimates about the
effect of matters that are inherently uncertain when the estimate is made, if
different estimates reasonably could have been used or if changes in the
estimate that are reasonably possible could materially impact the financial
statements. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosure of our
critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.
We believe the assumptions and estimates used and the resulting balances are
reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. 
Revenue Recognition 
Application of the various accounting
principles related to measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make
judgments and estimates in the following related areas: determining estimated
selling prices (“ESP”) and allocating revenue based on the relative selling
prices in arrangements with multiple deliverables, including assessing whether
we have vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) or third-party evidence of
selling price (“TPE”) for each deliverable; the interpretation of non-standard
terms and conditions in sales agreements; assessments of future price
adjustments, such as rebates, price protection and future product returns and
estimates for contractual licensee fees.
When we enter into sales arrangements with
customers that contain multiple deliverables such as hardware, software and
services, these arrangements require us to identify each deliverable and
determine its ESP following the relative selling price hierarchy. Additionally,
we sometimes use judgment in order to determine the appropriate timing of
revenue recognition and to assess whether any software and nonsoftware
components function together to deliver a tangible product’s essential
functionality in order to ensure the arrangement is properly accounted for as
software or hardware revenue.
When we enter into multiple deliverable
revenue arrangements with customers which are not subject to software revenue
guidance, we use judgment to (1) separate the deliverables based on specific
criteria, (2) assign an estimated selling price to each deliverable based on the
selling price hierarchy using VSOE, TPE or ESP and (3) allocate the total
arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. When VSOE
cannot be established we attempt to establish the selling price of each element
based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for largely
interchangeable products when sold separately. When we are unable to establish
selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use ESP. We use judgment to determine ESP,
which is the price at which we would transact a sale if the product or service
were regularly sold on a standalone basis. In this determination we consider our
discounting and internal pricing practices, external market conditions and
competitive positioning for similar offerings. 
While the majority of our sales
arrangements contain standard terms and conditions, we sometimes apply judgment
when interpreting complex arrangements with non-standard terms and conditions to
determine the appropriate accounting and timing of revenue recognition. An
example of such a judgment is deferring revenue related to significant
post-delivery obligations and customer acceptance criteria until such
obligations are fulfilled.
We license certain software to customers
under licensing agreements that allow those customers to embed the software into
specific products they offer. As consideration, licensees pay us a fee based on
the amount of sales of their products that incorporate our software. On a
periodic and timely basis, the licensees provide us with reports listing their
sales to end users for which they owe us license fees. Similarly, royalty
revenue is estimated from licensee reports of units sold to end users subject to
royalties under master contracts. In both cases, these reports are used to
substantiate delivery and we recognize revenue based on the information in these
reports or when amounts can be reasonably estimated.
39


Inventory Allowances 
Our manufacturing and service parts
inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost computed on a
first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) basis. Adjustments to reduce the carrying value of
both manufacturing and service parts inventories to their net realizable value
are made for estimated excess, obsolete or impaired balances. Factors
influencing these adjustments include significant estimates and judgments about
the future of product life cycles, product demand, rapid technological changes,
development plans, product pricing, physical deterioration, quality issues, end
of service life plans and volume of enhanced or extended warranty service
contracts.
Fair Value of Assets Acquired and
Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination 
We use judgment when applying the various
accounting principles to measure the fair value of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in a business combination. There are matters that are
inherently uncertain when making estimates used to determine fair value where
there are not active markets for these assets and liabilities. In addition,
different estimates reasonably could be used and changes in the estimate that
are reasonably possible could materially impact the resulting valuation and the
financial statements. For example, judgments have been required to determine
fair values of amortizable intangible assets, in-process research and
development and the resulting amount of goodwill. Significant estimates and
assumptions we make to estimate fair value of these acquired assets include:

Planned product roadmaps, including the primary
  feature sets of new products;
Expected efforts and associated costs required to
  integrate technologies acquired into new products;
Assessed importance of in-process research and
  development to our overall development plan;
Estimated values and rates of a market
  participant;
Estimated future cash flows of current and future
  products; and
Estimated discount rate applied to future cash
  flows. 
In addition, the estimated future life of
purchased technology intangibles impacts future financial statements. We believe
the assumptions and estimates used and the resulting fair values are reasonable.

Impairment of Long-lived Assets and
Goodwill 
We apply judgment when reviewing
amortizable intangible and other long-lived assets (“long-lived assets”) and
goodwill for impairment, including when evaluating potential impairment
indicators. Indicators we consider include adverse changes in the business
climate that could affect the value of our long-lived assets or goodwill,
changes in our stock price and resulting market capitalization relative to book
value, changes in our business strategy, product mix or to the long-term
economic outlook, decreases or slower than expected growth in sales of products,
relative weakness in customer channels and, in the case of goodwill, testing
long-lived assets for recoverability. 
We use an undiscounted cash flow approach
to evaluate our long-lived assets for recoverability when there are impairment
indicators. Estimates of future cash flows require significant judgments about
the future and include company forecasts and our expectations of future use of
our long-lived assets, both of which may be impacted by market conditions. Other
critical estimates include determining the asset group or groups within our
long-lived assets, the primary asset of an asset group and the primary asset’s
useful life.
During fiscal 2012, we early adopted the
accounting guidance that allows entities to perform a qualitative assessment to
determine whether a quantitative goodwill impairment calculation is necessary.
As a result, we may perform a qualitative test, a quantitative test, or both for
the annual goodwill impairment assessment. For our annual goodwill impairment
testing, or if a goodwill impairment indicator exists in an interim period, we
compare the fair value of the company to its carrying value. Estimates to
determine the fair value of the company require significant judgment. If the
results indicate our fair value is less than our carrying value then a second
step must be performed to quantify the amount of goodwill impairment, requiring
additional assumptions and judgments.
The following assumptions and estimates
may be used by management when the income approach is used in the second step of
a goodwill impairment test. We derive discounted cash flows using estimates and
assumptions about the future. Other significant assumptions may include:
expected future revenue growth rates, operating profit margins, working capital
levels, asset lives used to generate future cash flows, a discount rate, a
terminal value multiple, income tax rates and utilization of net operating loss
tax carryforwards. These assumptions are developed using current market
conditions as well as internal projections. Inherent in
our development of cash flow projections for the income approach used in an
impairment test are assumptions and estimates derived from a review of our
operating results, approved business plans, expected growth, cost of capital and
income tax rates. We also make certain assumptions about future economic
conditions, applicable interest rates and other market data.
40


Accrued Warranty 
We estimate future product failure rates
based upon historical product failure trends as well as anticipated future
failure rates if believed to be significantly different from historical trends.
Similarly, we estimate future costs of repair based upon historical trends and
anticipated future costs if they are expected to significantly differ, for
example due to negotiated agreements with third parties. We use a consistent
model and exercise considerable judgment in determining the underlying
estimates. Our model requires an element of subjectivity for all of our
products. For example, historical return rates are not completely indicative of
future return rates and we must therefore exercise judgment with respect to
future deviations from our historical return rates. When actual failure rates
differ significantly from our estimates, we record the impact in subsequent
periods and update our assumptions and forecasting models accordingly. As our
newer products mature, we are able to improve our estimates with respect to
these products.
Income Taxes 
A number of estimates and judgments are
necessary to determine deferred tax assets, deferred tax liabilities and
valuation allowances. We
recognize the benefit from a tax position only if it is more-likely-than-not
that the position would be sustained upon audit based solely on the technical
merits of the tax position. The calculation of our tax liabilities requires
judgment related to uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations.
It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have
to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these
uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on
factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances,
changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit
activity.
We have provided a full valuation
allowance against our U.S. net deferred tax assets due to our history of net
losses, difficulty in predicting future results and our conclusion that we
cannot rely on projections of future taxable income to realize the deferred tax
assets. In addition, we have provided a full valuation allowance against certain
of our international net deferred tax assets. Due to reorganizations in these
jurisdictions, it is unclear whether we will be able to realize a benefit from
these deferred tax assets. Also, certain changes in stock ownership could result
in a limitation on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryovers
that can be utilized each year. Should we undergo such a change in stock
ownership, it would severely limit the usage of these carryover tax attributes
against future income, resulting in additional tax charges.
Significant management judgment is
required in determining our deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation
allowances for purposes of assessing our ability to realize any future benefit
from our net deferred tax assets. We intend to maintain this valuation allowance
until sufficient evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation
allowance. Future income tax expense will be reduced to the extent that we have
sufficient evidence to support a reversal or decrease in this allowance. We also
have deferred tax assets and liabilities due to prior business acquisitions with
corresponding valuation allowances after assessing our ability to realize any
future benefit from these acquired net deferred tax assets.
41


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
Our financial instruments are exposed to
changes in market interest rates. 
Market Interest Rate
Risk 
Changes in interest rates affect interest
income earned on our cash equivalents. In addition, changes in interest rates
affect interest expense on our borrowings under the WF credit agreement and
affected interest expense on borrowings under the CS credit agreement while
outstanding. Our outstanding convertible subordinated notes have a fixed
interest rate, thus a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates
would not impact interest expense on these borrowings.
Our cash equivalents consisted solely of
money market funds at March 31, 2012 and 2011. During fiscal 2012 and fiscal
2011, interest rates on these funds were under 1.0%. A hypothetical decrease in
interest rates would have caused an immaterial decrease in interest income for
fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011.
Interest accrued on our CS credit
agreement at our option, based on either, a prime rate plus a margin of 2.5%, or
a LIBOR rate plus a margin of 3.5%. Interest rate on amounts borrowed on our WF
credit agreement is based on an election by us of an annual rate equal to (1) a
base rate established by Wells Fargo plus an applicable margin of 1.0% to 1.5%,
based on availability levels under the WF credit agreement or (2) the LIBOR rate
plus an applicable margin ranging from 2.0% and 2.5%, based on availability
levels under the WF credit agreement. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in
interest rates would increase interest expense $0.2 million and $0.4 million for
fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
42


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 



      
Page

Quantum Corporation – Financial
      Statements



       Report of
      PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm

44

      
      Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2012 and 2011

45

       Consolidated
      Statements of Operations for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
      2010
 
46

      
      Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the years ended
      March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010

47

       Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
      2010

48

      
      Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit for the years ended March
      31, 2012, 2011 and 2010

49

       Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements

50

      
      Schedule II – Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

76
43



Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Quantum Corporation: 
In our opinion, the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statement of
operations, stockholders' deficit, and cash flows present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Quantum Corporation and its
subsidiaries at March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, and the results of its operations
and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31,
2012 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in
the accompanying index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for these
financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under
Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company's internal
control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted
our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal
control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness
exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLPSeattle, WashingtonJune 14, 2012 
44


QUANTUM
CORPORATIONCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands, except par value)




     
March 31,2012
     
March 31,2011

Assets





Current assets:









       Cash and cash
      equivalents

$       
51,261


$       
76,010


       Restricted cash


4,230



1,863


Accounts receivable, net of allowance for
      doubtful accounts of $217 and $403, respectively


110,840



114,969


       Manufacturing
      inventories


61,111



48,131


       Service parts
      inventories


39,050



45,036


       Deferred income
taxes


5,295



6,271


       Other current assets


9,434



11,274


             
      Total current assets


281,221



303,554


Long-term
      assets:









       Property and equipment, less
      accumulated depreciation


25,440



24,980


       Amortizable intangible assets,
      less accumulated amortization


25,763



44,711


       In-process research and
      development


349



—


       Goodwill


55,613



46,770


       Other long-term
    assets


6,962



10,950


             
      Total long-term assets


114,127



127,411




$
395,348


$
430,965


Liabilities
      and Stockholders’ Deficit









Current liabilities:









       Accounts payable

$
56,304


$
52,203


       Accrued warranty


7,586



7,034


       Deferred revenue,
      current


93,441



87,488


       Current portion of long-term
      debt


—



1,067


       Accrued restructuring
      charges


1,752



4,028


       Accrued compensation


31,971



31,249


       Income taxes payable


1,133



1,172


       Other accrued
      liabilities


17,866



21,418


             
      Total current liabilities


210,053



205,659


Long-term liabilities:









       Deferred revenue,
      long-term


36,430



34,281


       Deferred income
taxes


4,564



6,820


       Long-term debt


49,495



103,267


       Convertible subordinated
      debt


135,000



135,000


       Other long-term
      liabilities


6,486



7,049


             
      Total long-term liabilities


231,975



286,417


Commitments and
      contingencies









Stockholders’ deficit:









       Preferred stock:









Preferred stock, 20,000 shares authorized; no
      shares issued as of March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011


—



—


       Common stock:









Common stock, $0.01 par value; 1,000,000
      shares authorized; 236,402 and 227,311 shares issued and outstanding as of
      March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively


2,364



2,273


            
      Capital in excess of par value


409,770



385,911


            
      Accumulated deficit


(465,397
)


(456,588
)

            
      Accumulated other comprehensive income


6,583



7,293


Stockholders’ deficit


(46,680
)


(61,111
)



$
395,348


$
430,965

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
45


QUANTUM
CORPORATIONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS (In
thousands, except per share data) 



For the year ended March
      31,


2012
     
2011
     
2010

Product revenue
$       
451,340


$       
456,903


$       
456,101


Service
      revenue

144,364



151,095



156,477


Royalty revenue

56,666



64,272



68,849


       Total revenue

652,370



672,270



681,427


Product cost of revenue

290,376



294,375



300,568


Service cost of
      revenue

88,459



94,311



100,822


Restructuring charges (benefit) related to cost of
revenue

(300
)


602



—


       Total cost of
revenue

378,535



389,288



401,390


             
      Gross margin

273,835



282,982



280,037


Operating
      expenses:












       Research and
    development

74,365



73,008



69,949


       Sales and marketing

130,938



122,768



114,612


       General and
      administrative

62,910



59,460



61,372


       Restructuring
charges

1,930



3,042



4,795


             
      Total operating expenses

270,143



258,278



250,728


Gain on sale of
      patents

1,500



—



—


             
      Income from operations

5,192



24,704



29,309


Other income and
      expense

(118
)


1,199



1,255


Interest expense

(10,686
)


(20,163
)


(25,515
)

Gain (loss) on
      debt extinguishment, net of costs

(2,310
)


(1,186
)


12,859


             
      Income (loss) before income taxes

(7,922
)


4,554



17,908


Income tax
      provision

887



13



1,274


             
      Net income (loss)
$
(8,809
)

$
4,541


$
16,634


Net income
      (loss) per share:












       Basic
$
(0.04
)

$
0.02


$
0.08


       Diluted

(0.04
)


0.02



0.02


  

Weighted average shares:












       Basic

232,599



220,888



212,672


       Diluted

232,599



229,738



223,761

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

46


QUANTUM
CORPORATIONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)(In
thousands)



For the year ended March
      31,


2012
     
2011
     
2010

Net income (loss)
$       
(8,809
)

$       
4,541


$       
16,634

       Other comprehensive income
      (loss), net of taxes:











            
      Foreign currency translation adjustments

(513
)


1,083



459

Net unrealized gain (loss) on revaluation of
      long-term intercompany balances, net of taxes of $(52), $(37) and $10,
      respectively

(197
)


(139
)


38

       Total other comprehensive income (loss)

(710
)


944



497

                 
      Total comprehensive income
      (loss)
$
(9,519
)

$
5,485


$
17,131
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

47


QUANTUM
CORPORATIONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS(In thousands)




For the year ended March
      31,


2012
     
2011
     
2010

Cash flows from operating activities:












       Net income (loss)
$       
(8,809
)

$       
4,541


$       
16,634


Adjustments to reconcile net
      income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:












             
      Depreciation

11,774



11,657



12,098


             
      Amortization

23,101



30,304



38,461


             
      Service parts lower of cost or market adjustment

10,736



13,796



11,424


             
      (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment

2,310



1,186



(15,613
)

             
      Deferred income taxes

(1,280
)


(184
)


(466
)

             
      Share-based compensation

13,737



10,421



9,789


             
      Other non-cash writeoffs

—



302



—


             
      Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of acquisition:












                    
      Accounts receivable

4,134



(14,935
)


4,454


                    
      Manufacturing inventories

(21,373
)


(1,460
)


2,328


                    
      Service parts inventories

3,642



1,955



3,217


                    
      Accounts payable

4,107



(1,466
)


11,495


                    
      Accrued warranty

552



1,150



(5,268
)

                    
      Deferred revenue

8,073



(3,876
)


9,484


                    
      Accrued restructuring charges

(2,284
)


227



(917
)

                    
      Accrued compensation

810



(302
)


3,824


                    
      Income taxes payable

12



(1,454
)


(2,239
)

                    
      Other assets and liabilities

(3,582
)


465



1,459


Net cash
      provided by operating activities

45,660



52,327



100,164


Cash flows from investing activities:












       Purchases of property and
      equipment

(11,414
)


(12,339
)


(8,595
)

       (Increase) decrease in
      restricted cash

(2,505
)


32



(112
)

       Return of principal from other
      investments

97



2,204



166


       Payment for business
      acquisition, net of cash acquired

(8,152
)


—



—


Net cash used in
      investing activities

(21,974
)


(10,103
)


(8,541
)

Cash flows from financing activities:












       Borrowings of long-term debt,
      net

48,535



—



120,042


       Repayments of long-term
      debt

(104,334
)


(203,449
)


(61,934
)

       Borrowings of convertible
      subordinated debt, net

—



130,022



—


       Repayments of convertible
      subordinated debt

—



(22,099
)


(122,288
)

       Payment of taxes due upon
      vesting of restricted stock

(2,944
)


(2,307
)


(1,069
)

       Proceeds from issuance of
      common stock

10,390



16,547



2,851


Net cash used in
      financing activities

(48,353
)


(81,286
)


(62,398
)

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
    equivalents

(82
)


125



190


       Net increase (decrease) in
      cash and cash equivalents

(24,749
)


(38,937
)


29,415


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

76,010



114,947



85,532


Cash and cash
      equivalents at end of period
$
51,261


$
76,010


$
114,947


Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:












       Fair value of common stock
      issued for business combination
$
2,767


$
—


$
—


       Purchases of property and
      equipment included in accounts payable

1,902



—



—


Cash paid during
      the year for:












       Interest

8,266



16,478



24,781


       Income taxes, net of
      refunds

1,857



1,868



1,856

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these Consolidated Financial Statements. 
48


QUANTUM
CORPORATIONCONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
STOCKHOLDERS’ DEFICIT(In
thousands)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Capital
 
 
 
 
 
Other
 
 
 
 

 
Common Stock
        
in
      Excess of
        
Retained
        
Comprehensive
        
 
 
 

 
Shares
        
Amount
 
Par
      Value
 
Deficit
 
Income
 
Total

Balances as of March 31, 2009
  210,231

$       
2,102

$       
349,850

$       
(477,763
)

$           
      
5,852


$       
(119,959
)

       Net income
—


—


—


16,634



—



16,634


Foreign currency
      translation adjustments
—


—


—


—



459



459


Net unrealized gain on revaluation of
      long-term intercompany balance, net of tax of $10
—


—


—


—



38



38


Shares issued under employee stock incentive
      plans, net
4,715


47


1,735


—



—



1,782


Share-based compensation expense
—


—


9,789


—



—



9,789


Balances as of March 31, 2010
214,946


2,149


361,374


(461,129
)


6,349



(91,257
)

       Net income
—


—


—


4,541



—



4,541


Foreign currency translation
      adjustments
—


—


—


—



1,083



1,083


Net unrealized loss on revaluation of
      long-term intercompany balance, net of tax of $(37)
—


—


—


—



(139
)


(139
)

Shares issued under employee stock purchase
      plan
3,234


32


3,912


—



—



3,944


Shares issued under employee stock incentive
      plans, net
9,131


92


10,204


—



—



10,296


Share-based compensation expense
—


—


10,421


—



—



10,421


Balances as of
      March 31, 2011
227,311


2,273


385,911


(456,588
)


7,293



(61,111
)

       Net loss
—


—


—


(8,809
)


—



(8,809
)

Foreign currency translation
      adjustments
—


—


—


—



(513
)


(513
)

Net unrealized loss on revaluation of
      long-term intercompany balance, net of tax of $(52)
—


—


—


—



(197
)


(197
)

Shares issued under employee stock purchase
      plan
3,036


31


5,012


—



—



5,043


Shares issued under employee stock incentive
      plans, net
5,084


51


2,352


—



—



2,403


Shares issued in connection with business
      acquisition
971


9


2,758


—



—



2,767


Share-based compensation expense
—


—


13,737


—



—



13,737


Balances as of
      March 31, 2012
236,402

$
2,364

$
409,770

$
(465,397
)

$
6,583


$
(46,680
)
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.

49


QUANTUM CORPORATION 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 
NOTE 1: BASIS OF PRESENTATION

Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”, the
“Company”, “us” or “we”), founded in 1980, is a global expert in data protection
and big data management. We provide solutions for storing and protecting
information in physical, virtual, cloud and big data environments that are
designed to help customers be certain they are maximizing the value of their
data over its entire lifecycle. With our solutions, customers can better adapt
in a world of continuing change by keeping and protecting more data for a longer
period of time while reducing costs and increasing return on investment. We work closely
with a broad network of distributors, value-added resellers (“VARs”), direct
marketing resellers (“DMRs”), original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and
other suppliers to meet customers’ evolving data protection and big data
management needs. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol QTM.
The accompanying Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of Quantum and our wholly-owned subsidiaries. On
June 13, 2011, we acquired Pancetera Software, Inc. (“Pancetera”), and
Pancetera’s results of operations are included in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations from that date. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been
eliminated. The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in the U.S.
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amount of revenues and expenses during the period. We base estimates on
historical experience and on various assumptions about the future that are
believed to be reasonable based on available information. Our reported financial
position or results of operations may be materially different under different
conditions or when using different estimates and assumptions, particularly with
respect to significant accounting policies, which are discussed below. In the
event that estimates or assumptions prove to differ from actual results,
adjustments are made in the current period to reflect this current information.

NOTE 2: SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Revenue Recognition 
Revenue consists of sales of hardware,
software and services, as well as royalties we earn for the license of certain
intellectual property. Revenue is recognized from the sale of products and
services when it is realized or realizable and earned. Revenue is considered
realized and earned when: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; delivery
has occurred or services have been rendered; the price to the buyer is fixed or
determinable; and when collectibility is reasonably assured. Royalty revenue is
recognized when earned or amounts can be reasonably estimated.
Product Revenue —
Hardware
Revenue for hardware products sold to
distributors, VARs, DMRs, OEMs and end users is generally recognized upon
shipment. When significant post-delivery obligations exist, the related revenue
is deferred until such obligations are fulfilled. If there are customer
acceptance criteria in the contract, we recognize revenue upon end user
acceptance, which typically occurs after delivery and installation are
completed.
In the period revenue is recognized,
allowances are provided for estimated future price adjustments, such as rebates,
price protection and future product returns. These allowances are based on
programs in existence at the time revenue is recognized, plans regarding future
price adjustments, the customers’ master agreements and historical product
return rates. Since we have historically been able to reliably estimate the
amount of allowances required, we recognize revenue, net of projected
allowances, upon shipment to our customers. If we were unable to reliably
estimate the amount of revenue adjustments in any specific reporting period,
then we would be required to defer recognition of the revenue until the rights
had lapsed and we were no longer under any obligation to reduce the price or
accept the return of the product.
50 


Product Revenue —
Software
Software revenue is generally recognized
upon shipment or electronic delivery and when vendor-specific objective evidence
(“VSOE”) of fair value for undelivered elements exists. For software
arrangements with multiple elements, the residual method is used to determine
the amount of product revenue to be recognized. Under the residual method, the
VSOE of fair value for the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining
portion of the arrangement consideration is recognized as product revenue,
assuming all other revenue recognition criteria of appropriate revenue guidance
have been met. Revenue from post-contract customer support agreements, which
entitle customers to both telephone support and any unspecified upgrades and
enhancements during the term of the agreement, is recognized ratably over the
term of the support agreement.
We license certain software to customers
under licensing agreements that allow those customers to embed our software into
specific products they offer. As consideration, licensees pay us a fee based on
the amount of sales of their products that incorporate our software. On a
periodic and timely basis, the licensees provide us with reports listing their
sales to end users for which they owe us license fees. As the reports
substantiate delivery has occurred, we recognize revenue based on the
information in these reports or when amounts can be reasonably
estimated.
Service Revenue
Revenue for service is generally
recognized upon services being rendered. Service revenue consists of customer
field support agreements for our hardware products, installation, professional
services and out-of-warranty repairs. For customer field support agreements,
revenue equal to the separately stated price of these service contracts for our
hardware products is initially deferred and recognized as revenue ratably over
the contract period. Installation and professional services are not considered
essential to the functionality of our products as these services do not alter
the product capabilities, do not require specialized skills and may be performed
by our customers or other vendors. Installation and professional services are
recognized upon completion. Out-of-warranty repair revenue is recognized upon
completion of the repair. 
Royalty Revenue
We license certain intellectual property
to third party manufacturers under arrangements that are represented by master
contracts. The master contracts give the third party manufacturers rights to the
intellectual property which include allowing them to either manufacture or
include the intellectual property in products for resale. As consideration, the
licensees pay us a per-unit royalty for sales of their products that incorporate
our intellectual property. On a periodic and timely basis, the licensees provide
us with reports listing units sold to end users subject to the royalties. As the
reports substantiate delivery has occurred, we recognize revenue based on the
information in these reports or when amounts can be reasonably
estimated.
Multiple Element
Arrangements 
For multiple deliverable revenue
arrangements with customers which are not subject to software revenue guidance,
we separate the deliverables based on specific criteria, assign an estimated
selling price to each deliverable based on the selling price hierarchy using
VSOE, third-party evidence of selling price (“TPE”) or estimated selling price
(“ESP”) and allocate the total arrangement consideration using the relative
selling price method. When VSOE cannot be established we attempt to establish
the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on
competitor prices for largely interchangeable products when sold separately.
When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use ESP. For
ESP, we consider our discounting and internal pricing practices. Additionally,
for certain transactions we evaluate whether any undelivered elements are
essential to the functionality of the delivered elements in order to determine
the appropriate timing of revenue recognition. If specific criteria are not met,
the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which results in
revenue being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met, when the
last undelivered element is delivered or ratably over the contract term as
appropriate. 
Service Cost of Revenue

We classify expenses as service cost of
revenue by estimating the portion of our total cost of revenue that relates to
providing field support to our customers under contract, installation,
integration and repair services. These estimates are based upon a variety of
factors, including the nature of the support activity and the level of
infrastructure required to support the activities from which we earn service
revenue. In the event our service business changes, our estimates of cost of
service revenue may be impacted. Service cost of revenue excludes costs
associated with basic warranty support on new products.
51 


Shipping and Handling Fees

Shipping and handling fees are included in
cost of revenue and were $20.3 million, $22.2 million and $26.1 million in
fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Research and Development Costs

Expenditures relating to the development
of new products and processes are expensed as incurred. These costs include
expenditures for employee compensation, materials used in the development
effort, other internal costs, as well as expenditures for third party
professional services. We have determined that technological feasibility for our
software products is reached shortly before the products are released to
manufacturing. Costs incurred after technological feasibility is established
have not been material. We expense software-related research and development
costs as incurred. 
Advertising Expense 
We expense advertising costs as incurred.
Advertising expense for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $4.3
million, $5.0 million and $3.9 million, respectively. 
Restructuring Charges

In recent periods and over the past
several years, we have recorded significant restructuring charges related to the
realignment and restructuring of our business operations. These charges
represent expenses incurred in connection with strategic planning, certain cost
reduction programs and acquisition integrations that we have implemented and
consist of the cost of involuntary termination benefits, facilities charges,
asset write-offs and other costs of exiting activities or geographies.

The charges for involuntary termination
costs and associated expenses often require the use of estimates, primarily
related to the number of employees to be paid severance and the amounts to be
paid, largely based on years of service and statutory requirements. Assumptions
to estimate facility exit costs include the ability to secure sublease income
largely based on market conditions, the likelihood and amounts of a negotiated
settlement for contractual lease obligations and other exit costs. Other
estimates for restructuring charges consist of the realizable value of assets
including associated disposal costs and termination fees with third parties for
other contractual commitments. 
Share-Based Compensation

We account for share-based compensation
using the Black-Scholes stock option pricing model to estimate the fair value of
share-based awards at the date of grant. The Black-Scholes model requires the
use of highly subjective assumptions, including expected life, expected
volatility and expected risk-free rate of return. Other reasonable assumptions
could provide differing results. We calculate a forfeiture rate to estimate the
share-based awards that will ultimately vest based on types of awards and
historical experience. Additionally, for awards which are performance based, we
make estimates as to the probability of the underlying performance being
achieved.
Foreign Currency Translation and
Transactions 
Assets, liabilities and operations of
foreign offices and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency
of the entity. For a majority of our foreign operations, the functional currency
is the U.S. dollar. The assets and liabilities of foreign offices with a local
functional currency are translated, for consolidation purposes, at current
exchange rates from the local currency to the reporting currency, the U.S.
dollar. The resulting gains or losses are reported as a component of other
comprehensive income. Foreign exchange gains and losses from changes in the
exchange rates underlying intercompany balances that are of a long-term
investment nature are also reported as a component of other comprehensive
income. Assets and liabilities denominated in other than the functional currency
are remeasured each month with the remeasurement gain or loss recorded in other
income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Foreign
currency gains and losses recorded in other income and
expense were a $0.1 million loss in fiscal 2012, a $0.3 million gain in fiscal
2011 and a $0.6 million loss in fiscal 2010.
52 



Income Taxes 
We recognize deferred tax assets and
liabilities due to the effect of temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts used for income tax purposes. We also reduce deferred tax assets by a
valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some or all of the
deferred tax asset will not be realized.
We recognize the benefit from a tax
position only if it is more-likely-than-not that the position would be sustained
upon audit based solely on the technical merits of the tax position. The
calculation of our tax liabilities requires judgment related to uncertainties in
the application of complex tax regulations. It is inherently difficult and
subjective to estimate such amounts, as we have to determine the probability of
various possible outcomes. We reevaluate these uncertain tax positions on a
quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited
to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled
issues under audit and new audit activity. A change in recognition or
measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional
tax charge to the provision. 
We recognize interest and penalties
related to uncertain tax positions in the income tax provision in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. To the extent accrued interest and
penalties do not become payable, amounts accrued will be reduced and reflected
as a reduction of the overall income tax provision in the period that such
determination is made. 
Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and
Other Investments 
We consider all highly liquid debt
instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less at the time of purchase to be
cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at fair value, which approximates
their cost. 
Restricted cash is comprised of bank
guarantees and similar required minimum balances that serve as cash collateral in connection with various items including
insurance requirements, value added taxes, ongoing tax audits and leases in
certain countries. 
We also hold investments in private
technology venture limited partnerships. These investments individually
represent voting ownership interests of less than 20%. Ownership interests in
these limited partnerships are accounted for under the equity method unless our
interest is so minor (typically less than 5%) that we have virtually no
influence over the partnership operating and financial policies, in which case
the cost method is used. Currently, our investments in these limited
partnerships are accounted for using the equity method. 
Investments in other privately held
companies are accounted for under the cost method unless we hold a significant
stake. We review non-marketable equity investments on a regular basis to
determine if there has been any impairment of value which is other than
temporary by reviewing their financial information, gaining knowledge of any new
financing or other business agreements and assessing their operating viability.

Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

We perform ongoing credit evaluations of
our customers’ financial condition and, for the majority of our customers,
require no collateral. For customers that do not meet our credit standards, we
often require a form of collateral, such as cash deposits or letters of credit
prior to the completion of a transaction. These credit evaluations require
significant judgment and are based on multiple sources of information. We
analyze such factors as our historical bad debt experience, industry and
geographic concentrations of credit risk, current economic trends and changes in
customer payment terms. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based on
historical experience and expected collectibility of outstanding accounts
receivable. We record bad debt expense in general and administrative expenses.

Manufacturing Inventories

Our manufacturing inventory is stated at
the lower of cost or market, with cost computed on a first-in, first-out
(“FIFO”) basis. Adjustments to reduce the cost of manufacturing inventory to its
net realizable value, if required, are made for estimated excess, obsolete or
impaired balances. Factors influencing these adjustments include declines in
demand, rapid technological changes, product life cycle and development plans,
component cost trends, product pricing, physical deterioration and quality
issues. Revisions to these adjustments would be required if these factors differ
from our estimates. 
53


Service Parts Inventories

Our service parts inventories are stated
at the lower of cost or market. We carry service parts because we generally
provide product warranty for 1 to 3 years and earn revenue by providing enhanced
and extended warranty and repair service during and beyond this warranty period.
Service parts inventories consist of both component parts, which are primarily
used to repair defective units, and finished units, which are provided for
customer use permanently or on a temporary basis while the defective unit is
being repaired. Defective parts returned from customers that can be repaired are
repaired and put back into service parts inventories at their fair value. We
record adjustments to reduce the carrying value of service parts inventory to
its net realizable value, and we dispose of parts with a net realizable value of
zero. Factors influencing these adjustments include product life cycles, end of
service life plans and volume of enhanced or extended warranty service
contracts. Estimates of net realizable value involve significant estimates and
judgments about the future, and revisions would be required if these factors
differ from our estimates. 
Property and Equipment

Property and equipment are carried at
cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization, computed on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:



Machinery and equipment
3 to 5 years

Computer equipment
3 to 5 years

ERP software
10 years

Other software
3 years

Furniture and fixtures
5 years

Other office equipment
5 years

Leasehold improvements
Life of
lease
Amortizable Intangible and Other
Long-lived Assets 
We review amortizable intangible and other
long-lived assets (“long-lived assets”) for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be
recoverable. The company operates as a single reporting unit for business and
operating purposes, and our impairment evaluation also treats the company as a
single reporting unit. Impairment indicators we consider include adverse changes
in the business climate that could affect the value of our long-lived assets,
changes in our stock price and resulting market capitalization relative to book
value, downward revisions in our revenue outlook, decreases or slower than
expected growth in sales of products and relative weakness in customer channels.
If we indentify impairment indicators, we evaluate recoverability using an
undiscounted cash flow approach. Estimates of future cash flows incorporate
company forecasts and our expectations of future use of our long-lived assets,
and these factors are impacted by market conditions. If impairment is indicated,
an impairment charge is recorded to write the long-lived assets down to their
estimated fair value.
Goodwill 
We evaluate goodwill for impairment
annually during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, or more frequently when
indicators of impairment are present. During fiscal 2012, we early adopted the
accounting guidance that allows entities to perform a qualitative assessment to
determine whether a quantitative calculation is necessary. As a result, we may
perform a qualitative test, a quantitative test, or both for the annual
impairment assessment. Some of the impairment indicators we consider include
changes in our stock price and resulting market capitalization relative to book
value, changes in the business climate, business strategy or product mix,
changes to the long-term economic outlook and testing long-lived assets for
recoverability. We operate as a single reporting unit and consider the company
as a whole when reviewing these factors. If impairment is indicated, a goodwill
impairment charge is recorded to write the goodwill down to its implied fair
value.
54


Accrued Warranty 
We generally warrant our hardware products
against defects for periods ranging from 1 to 3 years from the date of sale. Our
tape automation systems and disk systems may carry service agreements with
customers that choose to extend or upgrade the warranty service. We provide
repair services from our facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado as well as
multiple third party providers inside and outside of the U.S. We use a
combination of internal resources and third party service providers to supply
field service and support. We continue to evaluate repair sites, and any
resulting actions taken may affect the future costs of repair. If the actual
costs were to differ significantly from our estimates, we would record the
impact of these unforeseen costs or cost reductions in subsequent
periods.
We estimate future failure rates based
upon historical product failure trends as well as anticipated future failure
rates if believed to be significantly different from historical trends.
Similarly, we estimate future costs of repair based upon historical trends and
anticipated future costs if they are expected to significantly differ, for
example due to negotiated agreements with third parties. We use a consistent
model and exercise considerable judgment in determining the underlying
estimates. Our model requires an element of subjectivity for all of our
products. For example, historical rates of return are not completely indicative
of future return rates and we must therefore exercise judgment with respect to
future deviations from our historical return rate. When actual failure rates
differ significantly from our estimates, we record the impact in subsequent
periods and update our assumptions and forecasting models accordingly. As our
newer products mature, we are able to improve our estimates with respect to
these products. It is reasonably likely that assumptions will be updated for
failure rates and, therefore, our accrued warranty estimate could change in the
future. 
Business
Combinations 
We allocate the purchase price paid to the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at their
estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Any excess purchase price
above the identified net tangible and intangible assets and assumed liabilities
is allocated to goodwill. We consider fair value to be the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We estimate
fair value using the fair value hierarchy for the tangible and intangible assets
acquired as well as liabilities and contingencies assumed from the acquired
company. 
Derivative Financial Instruments

We recognize all derivatives, whether
designated in hedging relationships or not, on the balance sheet at fair value.
If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair
value of the derivative and the hedged item are recognized in earnings. If the
derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, changes in the fair value of the
derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income and are recognized in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations when the hedged item affects earnings.
Derivatives not designated or qualifying as a hedging instrument are adjusted to
fair value through earnings. We may, from time to time, enter into derivative
instruments to hedge against known or forecasted market exposures.
Common Stock Repurchases

During fiscal 2000, the Board of Directors
authorized us to repurchase up to $700 million of our common stock in open
market or private transactions. As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, there was $87.9
million remaining on our authorization to repurchase Quantum common stock. Our
ability to repurchase our common stock is restricted unless we meet certain
thresholds under the terms of the Wells Fargo credit agreement (“WF credit
agreement”). 
Fair Value of Financial
Instruments
We use exit prices, that is the price to
sell an asset or transfer a liability, to measure assets and liabilities that
are within the scope of the fair value measurements guidance. We classify these
assets and liabilities based on the following fair value hierarchy: 


Level 1:
Quoted (observable) market
      prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

Level 2:  
      
Observable inputs other than Level 1,
      such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in
      markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be
      corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of
      the asset or liability.

Level 3:
Prices or valuations that
      require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and
      unobservable.
55


The assets measured and recorded at fair
value on a recurring basis consist of money market funds which are valued using
quoted market prices at the respective balance sheet dates and are level 1 fair
value measurements (in thousands): 




As of March 31,


     
2012
     
2011

Money market
    funds
 
$      
37,776
 
$      
68,560
We have certain non-financial assets that
are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis when there is an indicator
of impairment, and they are recorded at fair value only when an impairment is
recognized. These assets include property and equipment, amortizable intangible
assets, in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) and goodwill. We did
not record impairments to any non-financial assets in fiscal 2012 or fiscal
2011. We do not have any non-financial liabilities measured and recorded at fair
value on a non-recurring basis. 
We have financial liabilities for which we
are obligated to repay the carrying value, unless the holder agrees to a lesser
amount. The carrying value and fair value of these financial liabilities were as
follows (in thousands):




As of March 31,



2012


2011


     
Carrying Value
     
Fair Value
     
Carrying Value
     
Fair Value

Senior secured revolving
      debt(1)

$      
49,495

$      
49,495

$      
—

$      
—

Senior secured term
    debt(2)
 
 
—
 
 
—


104,334
 
 
103,812

Convertible subordinated
      debt(3)


135,000


136,350
 
 
135,000


133,126____________________


(1)
       
Fair value based on outstanding borrowings and market interest
      rates.

(2)

Fair value based on non-binding broker quotes using current market
      information.

(3)

Fair value based on quoted market
prices.
Risks and Uncertainties

As is typical in the information storage
industry, a significant portion of our customer base is concentrated among a
small number of OEMs, distributors and large VARs. The loss of any one of our
more significant customers, or a significant decrease in the sales volume with
one of these significant customers, could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, if there is a
downturn in general economic conditions, the resulting effect on IT spending
could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial condition. We also face risks and uncertainties since our competitors
in one area may be customers or suppliers in another. 
A limited number of products comprise a
significant majority of our sales, and due to increasingly rapid technological
change in the industry, our future operating results depend on our ability to
develop and successfully introduce new products. 
Concentration of Credit Risk

We currently invest our excess cash in
deposits with major banks and in money market funds. In the past, we have also
held investments in short-term debt securities of companies with strong credit
ratings from a variety of industries, and we may make investments in these
securities in the future. We have not experienced any material losses on these
investments and limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer and to any
one type of investment. 
We sell products to customers in a wide
variety of industries on a worldwide basis. In countries or industries where we
are exposed to material credit risk, we may require collateral, including cash
deposits and letters of credit prior to the completion of a transaction. We do
not believe we have significant credit risk beyond that provided for in the
financial statements in the ordinary course of business. 
56


Sales to our top five customers
represented 34% of revenue in fiscal 2012 compared to 33% of revenue in fiscal
2011 and 37% of revenue in fiscal 2010. We had no customers that comprised 10%
or greater of revenue in fiscal 2012. Sales to our largest customer, Dell Inc.
(“Dell”), were 10% of revenue in fiscal 2011 compared to 13% of revenue in
fiscal 2010.
Recently Adopted Accounting
Pronouncements
In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we
adopted the goodwill impairment guidance for reporting units with zero or
negative carrying amounts. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on
our financial position or results of operations.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2012, we
adopted the guidance for disclosure of supplementary pro forma information for
business combinations. Adoption of this standard did not have an impact on our
financial position or results of operations, other than the additional
disclosures included in the notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we
early adopted the guidance regarding the presentation of other comprehensive
income. We elected to present other comprehensive income in two separate but
consecutive statements of net income and its components followed immediately by
a statement of other comprehensive income (loss). Adoption of this standard did
not have an impact on our financial position or results of operations, other
than the additional statement in the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, we
early adopted the guidance that allows entities to perform a qualitative
assessment for step one goodwill impairment testing. Adoption of this standard
did not have an impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Recent Accounting
Pronouncements 
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-04,
Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments
to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S.
GAAP and IFRSs (“ASU 2011-04”), which amends
the accounting standards for fair value measurements and disclosures. ASU
2011-04 provides clarifications about the application of existing fair value
measurement and disclosure requirements. In addition, ASU 2011-04 changes how to
measure fair value of financial instruments managed within a portfolio and how
to apply premiums and discounts. There are also additional disclosures required.
ASU 2011-04 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those
years, beginning after December 15, 2011. We will apply this standard beginning
in fiscal 2013 and do not anticipate adoption will impact our statements of
financial position or results of operations. 
NOTE 3: ACQUISITION 
On June 13, 2011, in order to enhance our
product offerings and technology portfolio we acquired Pancetera pursuant to a
statutory merger in exchange for approximately $11.0 million, comprised of $8.2
million in cash and $2.8 million in Quantum common stock. We acquired all
outstanding shares of Pancetera and assumed all of Pancetera’s outstanding
unvested stock options according to the option exchange ratio defined in the
merger agreement with Pancetera. We also assumed unvested restricted Pancetera
common stock in accordance with the merger agreement. Pancetera’s results of
operations are included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Cash
Flows from the June 13, 2011 acquisition date.
The acquisition was recorded under the
acquisition method of accounting, resulting in the purchase price being
allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their
estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed was recorded as goodwill. The allocation of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed is set forth below (in thousands):



Current assets

$
46


Property and equipment
     

37


Amortizable intangible assets


1,795
 

In-process research and development
 

349


Goodwill


8,843


Current liabilities

 
(116
)

       Total
      purchase price

$      
10,954

57


In performing our purchase
price allocation, we considered, among other factors, our intention for future
use of acquired assets, analyses of historical financial performance and
estimates of future performance of Pancetera’s existing and future products. The
fair value of current assets, property and equipment and current liabilities was
based on market prices at the acquisition date. The fair value of amortizable
intangible assets and IPR&D was based, in part, on a valuation using a
discounted cash flow approach and other valuation techniques as well as
management’s estimates and assumptions.
The amortizable intangible
assets are all related to developed technology and are included in purchased
technology within Note 5 “Intangible Assets and Goodwill.” Purchased technology,
which comprises products that have reached technological feasibility, was
primarily related to SmartRead®. SmartRead is patented technology,
primarily comprised of a set of algorithms that reduce storage input-output when
performing maintenance tasks such as backup, replication or migration of virtual
machines. Pancetera products containing the SmartRead technology included
SmartView TM and SmartMotion TM, which have been rebranded
as vmPRO software solutions. Purchased technology intangible assets also include
a combination of Pancetera processes, patents and trade secrets related to the
design and development of these products. This proprietary know-how can be
leveraged to develop new technology and improve our products. The SmartRead
purchased technology intangible asset has an amortization period of four
years.
IPR&D represents
incomplete Pancetera research and development projects that had not reached
technological feasibility as of the acquisition date. Due to the nature of
IPR&D, the expected life is indeterminate and we periodically evaluate for
attainment of technological feasibility or impairment. Technological feasibility
is established when an enterprise has completed all planning, designing, coding
and testing activities that are necessary to establish that a product can be
produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features and
technical performance requirements. The value assigned to IPR&D was
determined by considering the importance of each project to our overall
development plan, estimating costs to develop the purchased IPR&D into
commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the
projects when completed and discounting the net cash flows using a discount rate
of 18% to their present value based on the percentage of completion of the
IPR&D projects.
The goodwill as a result of
this acquisition is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. In addition,
we incurred acquisition expenses of $0.3 million during fiscal 2012 which are
included in general and administrative expense in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations. The following unaudited supplemental pro forma information presents
the combined results of operations of Quantum and Pancetera as if the
acquisition had occurred as of the beginning of fiscal 2011 (in thousands):





As of March
      31


     
2012
     
2011

Pro forma revenue
 
$      
    
652,404


$      
    
672,376
 

Pro
      forma net loss


(9,506
)
 

(1,303
)

 










NOTE 4: BALANCE SHEET
      DETAILS 

 










Cash, cash equivalents
      and restricted cash consisted of (in thousands): 

 











As of March
      31


     
2012
     
2011

Cash

$      
17,715


$      
8,744


Certificates of deposit
 
 
—



569


Money market funds


37,776

 
 
68,560




$
55,491


$
77,873

58


Manufacturing inventories
consisted of (in thousands): 




As of March
      31


     
2012
     
2011

Finished goods

$      
    
22,122


$      
    
19,999


Work
      in process


5,781



7,385


Materials and purchased parts


33,208



20,747




$
61,111


$
48,131
 

 

Service parts inventories consisted of (in thousands):

  










     
As of March
      31



2012
     
2011

Finished goods

$      
    
19,202


$      
    
25,348


Component parts


19,848



19,688




$
39,050


$
45,036


  

Property and equipment consisted of (in thousands):

 










As of March
      31



2012
     
2011

Machinery and equipment

$      
    
162,182


$      
    
154,206


Furniture and fixtures


7,045



7,193


Leasehold improvements


23,348



22,563



 

192,575

 

183,962


Less: accumulated depreciation

 
(167,135
)

 
(158,982
)



$
25,440


$
24,980

NOTE 5: INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND
GOODWILL
Intangible Assets 
Acquired intangible assets are amortized
over their estimated useful lives, which generally range from one to eight
years. In estimating the useful lives of intangible assets, we considered the
following factors: 
The cash flow projections used to estimate the
  useful lives of the intangible assets showed a trend of growth that was expected to continue for an extended period of
  time;
Our tape automation products, disk systems and
  software, in particular, have long development cycles; these products have experienced long product life cycles;
  and
Our ability to leverage core technology into data
  protection and big data and archive solutions and, therefore, to extend the lives of these technologies. 
Acquired IPR&D is amortized over its
estimated useful life once technological feasibility is reached. If IPR&D is
determined to not have technological feasibility or is abandoned, we write off
the IPR&D in that period.
Following is the weighted average
amortization period for our amortizable intangible assets: 



     
Amortization(Years)

Purchased
    technology

6.2

Trademarks

6.0

Customer lists

7.1

       All
      intangible assets

6.5
59


Intangible amortization within our
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010 follows (in thousands): 




For the year ended March 31,


     
2012
     
2011
     
2010

Purchased
    technology

$      
7,583

$      
14,862

$      
22,469

Trademarks


700
 

810


810

Non-compete
      agreements
 

32

 
100


100

Customer lists

 
12,428


12,609

 
12,765



$
20,743

$
28,381
 
$
36,144
The following tables provide a summary of
the carrying value of amortizable intangible assets (in thousands): 




As of March
      31,



2012

2011


     
GrossAmount
     
AccumulatedAmortization
     
NetAmount
     
GrossAmount
     
AccumulatedAmortization
     
NetAmount

Purchased
    technology

$      
182,922

$      
(176,893
)

$      
6,029

$      
188,167

$      
(176,350
)

$      
11,817

Trademarks

 
3,900


(3,656
)


244


27,260
 

(26,316
)


944

Non-compete
      agreements
 

—


—

 

—
 

500


(468
)


32

Customer lists


106,419
 

(86,929
)

 
19,490

 
106,419

 
(74,501
)


31,918



$
293,241

$
(267,478
)

$
25,763

$
322,346

$
(277,635
)
 
$
44,711
The total expected future amortization
related to intangible assets is provided in the table below (in thousands):




     
Amortization

Fiscal 2013

$      
13,283

Fiscal 2014

 
8,849

Fiscal 2015


3,541

Fiscal 2016
 

90

       Total
      as of March 31, 2012

$
25,763
We did not have impairment indicators for
our long-lived assets in fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. In fiscal
2012, we wrote off $30.9 million of fully amortized intangible assets related to
fiscal 2002 and 2003 acquisitions. 
Goodwill 
The following provides a summary of the
carrying value of goodwill (in thousands): 



     
Goodwill
     
AccumulatedImpairment Losses
     
Net Amount

Balance March 31,
      2010

$      
385,770

$          
      
(339,000
)

$      
46,770

       Fiscal
      2011 activity


—


—



—

Balance March 31,
      2011


385,770


(339,000
)

 
46,770

      
      Pancetera acquisition
 
 
8,843
 
 
—
 
 

8,843

Balance March 31,
      2012

$
394,613

$
(339,000
)

$
55,613
Our annual impairment evaluation for
goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 did not indicate
any impairment of our goodwill for fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011.
60


NOTE 6: ACCRUED WARRANTY

The following table details the change in
the accrued warranty balance (in thousands): 




For the year
      ended March 31,


     
2012
     
2011

Beginning balance

$       
      
7,034


$       
      
5,884


       Additional warranties
      issued


9,973



11,049


      
      Adjustments for warranties issued in prior fiscal years


1,956

 

2,610
 

       Settlements


(11,377
)

 
(12,509
)

Ending balance

$
7,586
 

$
7,034


 










We warrant our products
      against defects for 1 to 3 years. A provision for estimated future costs
      and estimated returns for credit relating to warranty is recorded when
      products are shipped and revenue recognized. Our estimate of future costs
      to satisfy warranty obligations is primarily based on historical trends
      and, if believed to be significantly different from historical trends,
      estimates of future failure rates and future costs of repair. Future costs
      of repair include materials consumed in the repair, labor and overhead
      amounts necessary to perform the repair. If future actual failure rates
      differ from our estimates, we record the impact in subsequent periods. If
      future actual costs of repair were to differ significantly from our
      estimates, we would record the impact of these unforeseen cost differences
      in subsequent periods.

 




NOTE 7: LONG-TERM
      DEBT AND CONVERTIBLE SUBORDINATED DEBT 

 




Our debt consisted of
      the following (in thousands): 

 





As of March
      31,



2012

2011

Senior secured revolving debt
     
$      
49,495

     
$      
—


Senior secured term debt


—

 

104,334


Convertible subordinated debt

 
135,000


 
135,000




$
184,495


$
239,334

Long-Term Debt
Wells Fargo Credit
Agreement 
On March 29, 2012, we refinanced the
senior secured credit agreement with Credit Suisse (“CS credit agreement”) by
entering into a senior secured credit agreement with Wells Fargo Capital
Finance, LLC (“Wells Fargo”) providing a revolving credit facility up to $75
million (“WF credit agreement”). The WF credit agreement matures March 29, 2017,
or August 16, 2015 if our convertible subordinated notes remain outstanding on
that date. We borrowed $49.5 million on March 29, 2012 to repay all borrowings
under the CS credit agreement. Amounts borrowed are included in long-term debt
on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We incurred and capitalized $1.0 million of
fees related to the WF credit agreement which are included in other long-term
assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These fees are being amortized to
interest expense over the term of the WF credit agreement. 
Under the WF credit agreement, we may
borrow on a revolving basis amounts to be used to refinance all debts under our
CS credit agreement as well as for general purposes. The maximum principal
amount that may be borrowed is the lesser of $75 million, reduced by $1.0
million per quarter commencing July 1, 2012, or the amount of the monthly
borrowing base. The monthly borrowing base is comprised of a cash component, an
accounts receivable component and an inventory component. We may prepay all or a
portion of any amounts borrowed without penalty or premium.
The interest rate on amounts borrowed is
based on an election by us of an annual rate equal to (1) a base rate
established by Wells Fargo plus an applicable margin of 1.0% to 1.5%, based on
availability levels under the WF credit agreement or (2) the LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin
ranging from 2.0% and 2.5%, based on availability levels under the WF credit
agreement.
61



At March 31, 2012, we had $49.5 million
outstanding borrowings at an interest rate of 4.50%, and subsequently elected
the LIBOR rate plus applicable margin on April 5, 2012, bringing the interest
rate to 2.72%. In addition, we have letters of credit totaling $0.1 million,
reducing the amounts available to borrow on the revolver to $25.4 million at
March 31, 2012. Quarterly, we are required to pay a 0.375% commitment fee on
undrawn amounts under the revolving credit facility. 
The WF credit agreement contains customary
covenants, including cross-default provisions, as well as financial covenants
that require the fixed charge coverage ratio to be greater than 1.20 for the 12
month period ending on the last day of any month and average liquidity for the
most recently completed month of at least $15 million during the period
commencing on March 29, 2012 and ending on September 30, 2012, increasing to $20
million on October 1, 2012. In addition, to avoid triggering mandatory field
audits and Wells Fargo controlling our cash receipts, we must maintain average
liquidity of at least $20 million during the period commencing on March 29, 2012
and ending on September 30, 2012, increasing to $25 million on October 1, 2012.
Both the fixed charge coverage ratio and average liquidity are defined in the WF
credit agreement. There is also a blanket lien on all of our assets under a
security agreement with Wells Fargo. As of March 31, 2012, we were in compliance
with all covenants. 
Credit Suisse Credit
Agreement 
On July 12, 2007, we refinanced a prior
credit facility by entering into a senior secured credit agreement with Credit
Suisse providing a $50 million revolving credit facility and a $400 million
senior secured term loan. We borrowed $400 million on the term loan to repay all
borrowings under a prior credit facility used to fund the Advanced Digital
Information Corporation acquisition. We incurred and capitalized $8.1 million of
loan fees related to the CS credit agreement which were included in other
long-term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These fees were amortized
to interest expense over the respective loan terms. Interest accrued on the term
loan at our option based on either, a prime rate plus a margin of 2.5%, or a
LIBOR rate plus a margin of 3.5%. During fiscal 2011, we made principal
payments of $81.7 million on the CS credit agreement term loan, and in fiscal
2012 we made principal payments of $104.3 million to fully extinguish the term
loan and CS credit agreement.
Subordinated Term Loans 
On November 15, 2010, we paid $121.7
million plus $1.8 million in accrued and unpaid interest to settle subordinated
term loans with EMC International Company. As a result of the voluntary
prepayment in full of these term loans, we have satisfied all of our obligations
under these loans. We funded this payment using proceeds from the 3.50%
convertible subordinated notes. 
Convertible Subordinated Debt

Current Notes Issued November
2010 
On November 15, 2010, we issued $135
million aggregate principal amount of the current notes due November 15, 2015
(“current notes”) with a conversion price of $4.33 per share of our common
stock. We may not redeem the notes prior to their maturity date although
investors may convert the current notes into Quantum common stock until November
14, 2015 at their option. In addition, since purchasers are qualified
institutional investors, as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”), the current notes have not been registered under the
Securities Act. We pay 3.50% interest per annum on the principal amount of the
current notes semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The terms of
the current notes are governed by an agreement dated November 15, 2010 between
Quantum and U.S. Bank National Association. The current notes are subordinated
to any existing indebtedness and other liabilities.
We incurred and capitalized $5.0 million
of loan fees in fiscal 2011 for the current notes which are included in other
long-term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. These fees are amortized to
interest expense over the loan term. 
62


4.375% Notes Issued July
2003 
On July 30, 2010, we paid $22.1 million
plus $0.5 million in accrued and unpaid interest to redeem the 4.375%
convertible subordinated notes outstanding at that date in accordance with the
contractual terms at maturity. These notes matured August 1,
2010. 
Gain (Loss) on Debt Extinguishment, Net
of Costs 
In fiscal 2012, in connection with fully
extinguishing the CS term loan and credit agreement on March 29, 2012, we wrote
off $2.3 million of unamortized debt costs related to the CS term loan and
credit agreement.
In fiscal 2011, in connection with the
repayment of our subordinated term loans on November 15, 2010, we wrote off $1.2
million of unamortized debt costs related to these term loans. 
In fiscal 2010, in connection with a
tender offer and a private transaction for the 4.375% convertible subordinated
notes issued July 2003, we recorded a gain on debt extinguishment, net of costs,
of $12.9 million comprised of a gross gain of $15.6 million, reduced by $2.1
million in expenses and $0.6 million of unamortized debt costs related to these
notes. 
63


Debt Maturities 
A summary of the scheduled maturities for
our outstanding debt as of March 31, 2012 follows (in thousands): 



      
Debt Maturity

Fiscal 2013 to fiscal
      2015

$
—

Fiscal 2016


135,000

Fiscal 2017


49,495

       Total
      as of March 31, 2012

$
184,495
Derivatives
We do not engage in hedging activity for
speculative or trading purposes. Under the terms of the CS credit agreement, we
were required to hedge floating interest rate exposure on 50% of our funded debt
balance through December 31, 2009. We entered into an interest rate collar
instrument with a financial institution that fixed the interest rate on $100.0
million of our variable rate term loan from December 31, 2008 through December
31, 2009. We incurred $1.5 million in interest expense in fiscal 2010 on this
collar.
Our interest rate collar did not meet all
of the criteria necessary for hedge accounting. We recorded the fair market
value in other accrued liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the
change in fair market value in other income and expense in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations, recognizing a gain of $1.2 million in fiscal 2010. As
of December 31, 2009, the interest rate collar had expired.
NOTE 8: RESTRUCTURING
CHARGES
Our restructuring actions are steps
undertaken to reduce costs in an effort to return to consistent profitability.
In fiscal 2012 and 2011, restructuring actions to consolidate operations
supporting our business were the result of strategic management decisions. In
fiscal 2010, restructuring actions to consolidate operations supporting our
business were undertaken to improve operational efficiencies and to adapt our
operations in recognition of economic conditions. The following summarizes the
type of restructuring expense for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in
thousands):




For the year ended March
31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Severance and
      benefits

$      
1,585


$      
3,580


$      
602


Facilities


345



(538
)


4,792


Other


(300
)


602



(599
)



$
1,630


$
3,644


$
4,795

Fiscal 2012 
Restructuring charges in fiscal 2012 were
primarily due to severance and benefits expenses of $1.6 million as a result of
strategic management decisions to consolidate operations supporting our
business. Most areas of the business, including international operations, were
impacted by these restructuring actions. The employees impacted were in our
research and development, sales and marketing and service teams. Facility
restructuring charges for fiscal 2012 were primarily due to negotiating a lease
settlement on a facility vacated in India. The other restructuring reversal for
fiscal 2012 was due to actual payments lower than estimated on a supplier
relationship exited in fiscal 2011. 
Fiscal 2011 
Restructuring charges in fiscal 2011 were
primarily due to severance and benefits expenses of $3.6 million as a result of
strategic management decisions to consolidate operations supporting our
business. Most areas of the business, including international operations, were
impacted by these restructuring actions. The employees impacted were in our
management, sales and marketing, research and development and service teams. The
facility reversals in fiscal 2011 were primarily due to negotiating settlements for lease
liabilities on two vacated facilities in the U.S. for amounts lower than the
outstanding lease contracts. The other restructuring charges were costs from
exiting a supplier relationship in fiscal 2011. 
64


Fiscal 2010 
For fiscal 2010, restructuring charges
were primarily due to $4.8 million in remaining contractual lease payments for
facilities vacated in the U.S. during fiscal 2010. We also vacated a facility in
India and negotiated a settlement for an amount lower than the outstanding lease
contract. Severance and benefits restructuring charges for fiscal 2010 were due
largely to eliminating additional positions in the U.S. and changes in our
estimates, primarily in Europe, as we completed settlement negotiations with
various local authorities. The other restructuring reversal in fiscal 2010 was
due to negotiating a settlement for contract termination fees related to a
program cancelled in a prior year. 
The following tables show the activity and
the estimated timing of future payouts for accrued restructuring (in thousands):





Severance andbenefits

Facilities

Other

Total

Balance as of March 31, 2009
      
$        
      
3,454

      
$      
628

      
$      
599

      
$      
4,681


      
      Restructuring costs


1,182



5,047



—



6,229


      
      Restructuring charge reversal


(580
)


(255
)


(599
)


(1,434
)

       Cash payments


(3,597
)


(2,124
)


—



(5,721
)

      
      Non-cash charges and other


35



5



—



40


Balance as of March 31, 2010


494



3,301



—



3,795


      
      Restructuring costs


3,586



307



602



4,495


       Restructuring charge
      reversal


(6
)


(845
)


—



(851
)

       Cash
      payments


(1,189
)


(1,920
)


—



(3,109
)

       Non-cash charges and
      other


—



—



(302
)


(302
)

Balance as of March 31, 2011


2,885



843



300



4,028


       Restructuring
      costs


1,864



345



—



2,209


      
      Restructuring charge reversal


(279
)


—



(300
)


(579
)

       Cash payments


(3,181
)


(748
)


—



(3,929
)

       Assumed
      restructuring liability


23



—



—



23


Balance as of March 31, 2012

$
1,312


$
440


$
—


$
1,752


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Estimated timing of future
payouts:

















       Fiscal 2013

$
1,312


$
297


$
—


$
1,609


       Fiscal
      2014 to 2016


—



143



—



143




$
1,312


$
440


$
—


$
1,752

The $1.8 million restructuring accrual as
of March 31, 2012 is primarily comprised of severance and benefits obligations,
the majority of which will be paid in fiscal 2013. The amounts accrued for
vacant facilities will be paid over their respective lease terms, which continue
through fiscal 2016.
Additional charges may be incurred in the
future related to these restructurings, particularly if the actual costs
associated with restructured activities are higher than estimated. Until we
achieve sustained profitability, we may incur additional charges in the future
related to additional cost reduction steps. Future charges that we may incur
associated with future cost reductions are not estimable at this
time.
65


NOTE 9: STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS AND
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
Description of Stock Incentive Plans 
Active Stock Incentive
Plans 
We have a Long-Term Incentive Plan that
provides for the issuance of stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock
purchase rights and long-term performance awards to our employees, officers, and
consultants, as well as a Nonemployee Director Equity Incentive Plan that
provides for the issuance of stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock
purchase rights and long-term performance awards to our nonemployee directors,
collectively the “Active Plans.” These plans have authorized 79.5 million shares
of stock of which 7.3 million shares of stock were available for grant as of
March 31, 2012. There are 26.5 million stock options and restricted shares
outstanding under the Active Plans as of March 31, 2012, which expire at various
times through June 2018.
With the exception of fiscal 2010, in
recent years we have primarily granted restricted stock units with a zero
purchase price. We continue to grant stock options to employees in certain
circumstances. In fiscal 2010, due to a combination of factors including our
share price at the beginning of the fiscal year, we primarily granted stock
options to our employees. Stock options granted in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010
generally vest over three to four years and have contractual terms of seven
years. Grants prior to fiscal 2005 had contractual terms of ten years. Stock
options under the Active Plans are granted at prices determined by the Board of
Directors, but at not less than the fair market value. The majority of
restricted stock units granted to employees in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 vest
over two to three years. Stock option and restricted stock grants to nonemployee
directors typically vest over one year. Both stock options and restricted stock
units granted under the Active Plans are subject to forfeiture if employment
terminates.
Other Stock Option
Plans 
During the first quarter of fiscal 2012,
we assumed outstanding unvested options and unvested restricted shares of
Pancetera which were exchanged into options and restricted shares of Quantum
common stock, respectively, in accordance with the merger agreement. As of June
13, 2011, Pancetera had approximately 0.8 million unvested stock options and 0.5
million unvested restricted shares outstanding. Based on the exchange ratio of
0.2403 calculated in accordance with the formula in the merger agreement, we
assumed the outstanding unvested options, which are exercisable for an aggregate
of 194,000 shares of Quantum common stock. Based on the relative cash and stock
consideration for Pancetera shares per the merger agreement, the unvested
restricted shares became 33,000 unvested restricted shares of Quantum common
stock and $200,000 in cash held in escrow. The estimated fair value of unvested
Pancetera options, unvested restricted shares and cash held in escrow related to
future service is being recognized over the remaining service
period. 
In addition to the Active Plans, we have
other stock option plans, including plans assumed in acquisitions, (“Other
Plans”) under which stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock purchase
rights, restricted stock awards and long-term performance awards to employees,
consultants, officers and affiliates were authorized. Stock options granted and
assumed under the Other Plans generally vested over one to four years and
expired ten years after the grant date and restricted stock granted under the
Other Plans generally vested over one to three years. The Other Plans have been
terminated and outstanding stock options granted and assumed remain outstanding
and continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of the respective other
stock option plan. Stock options and restricted stock granted under the Other
Plans are subject to forfeiture if employment terminates. Stock options under
the Other Plans were granted at prices determined by the Board of Directors, but
at not less than the fair market value and stock options assumed were governed
by the acquisition agreement. Stock options expire at various times through June
2021. 
Stock Purchase Plan 
We have an employee stock purchase plan
(the “Purchase Plan”) that allows for the purchase of stock at 85% of fair
market value at the date of grant or the exercise date, whichever value is less.
The Purchase Plan is qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the Purchase Plan, rights to purchase shares are granted during the second
and fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Due to cancellation of rights from
August 2008 through January 2010 by the Board of Directors, there were no rights to
purchase shares granted during this period. Rights to purchase shares were
reinstated in February 2010 or the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The Purchase
Plan allows a maximum amount of two million shares to be purchased in any one
six month offering period. Employees purchased 3.0 million shares and 3.2
million shares of common stock under the Purchase Plan in fiscal 2012 and 2011,
respectively. The weighted-average price of stock purchased under the Purchase
Plan was $1.66 and $1.22 in fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively. There were 2.9
million shares available for issuance as of March 31, 2012.
66


Determining Fair Value

We use the Black-Scholes stock option
valuation model for estimating fair value of stock options granted under our
plans and rights to acquire stock granted under our Purchase Plan. We amortize
the fair value of stock options on a ratable basis over the requisite service
periods, which are generally the vesting periods. The expected life of awards
granted represents the period of time that they are expected to be outstanding.
We determine the expected life based on historical experience with similar
awards, giving consideration to the contractual terms, exercise patterns and
post-vesting forfeitures. We estimate volatility based on the historical
volatility of our common stock over the most recent period corresponding with
the estimated expected life of the award. We base the risk-free interest rate
used in the Black-Scholes stock option valuation model on the implied yield
currently available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with an equivalent term
equal to the expected life of the award. We have not paid any cash dividends on
our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the
foreseeable future. We use historical data to estimate forfeitures and record
share-based compensation for those awards that are expected to vest. We adjust
share-based compensation for actual forfeitures. 
Stock Options 
The weighted-average estimated fair values
and the assumptions used in calculating fair values for stock options granted
under the Active Plans during each fiscal period are as follows: 




For the year ended March
31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Stock option life (in
      years)


4.0



4.2



3.9


Risk-free interest rate


1.57
%


2.02
%


2.05
%

Stock price
      volatility


112.33
%


106.75
%


107.67
%

Weighted-average grant date fair
    value

$      
1.91


$      
1.96


$      
0.73

The weighted-average fair value of stock
options assumed from Pancetera, as well as the weighted-average assumptions used
in calculating these values were based on estimates at the acquisition date as
follows: 


Option life (in
      years)


5.2


Risk-free interest rate
      

1.65
%

Stock price
      volatility


100.93
%

Weighted-average fair value

$      
2.67

The assumed options have a 10 year
contractual life from the original grant date. 
Restricted Stock
 The fair value of our
restricted stock is the intrinsic value as of the grant date. 
Stock Purchase Plan
The weighted-average fair values and the
assumptions used in calculating fair values during each fiscal period are as
follows: 




For the year ended March 31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Option life (in years)


0.50



0.50



0.50


Risk-free interest rate


0.06
%


0.19
%


0.15
%

Stock price volatility


70.29
%


68.56
%


69.14
%

Weighted-average grant date fair value

$      
0.82


$      
0.72


$      
0.82

67


Share-Based Compensation Expense

The following tables summarize share-based
compensation expense (in thousands): 




For the year ended March
31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Share-based compensation
      expense included in operations:










       Cost of revenue

$      
2,203

$      
1,768

$      
1,366

       Research and
      development


3,250


2,486


2,373

       Sales
      and marketing


4,048


3,121


2,581

       General and
      administrative


4,236


3,046


3,469

Total share-based compensation
    expense

$
13,737

$
10,421

$
9,789




For the year ended March
31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Share-based compensation
      by type of award:










       Stock
      options

$      
2,622

$      
3,586

$      
3,633

       Restricted
      stock


9,053


5,329


5,878

       Stock
      purchase plan


2,062


1,506


278

Total share-based
      compensation expense

$
13,737

$
10,421

$
9,789
The total share-based compensation cost
capitalized as part of inventory as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 was not material.
During fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, no tax benefit was realized for the tax
deduction from stock option exercises and other awards due to tax benefit
carryforwards and tax ordering requirements. 
As of March
31, 2012, there was $3.0 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related
to stock options granted under our plans. This unrecognized compensation cost is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.5 years. Total
intrinsic value of stock options exercised for the years ended March 31, 2012,
2011 and 2010 was $3.7 million, $8.9 million and $1.9 million, respectively. We
settle stock option exercises by issuing additional common shares. 
As of March 31, 2012, there was $20.8
million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted
stock. The unrecognized compensation cost for restricted stock is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.9 years. Total fair value of
awards released during the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $9.4
million, $7.5 million and $3.1 million, respectively, based on the fair value of
our common stock on the date of award release. We issue additional common shares
upon vesting of restricted stock units. 
68


Stock Activity 
Stock Options 
A summary of activity relating to all of
our stock option plans is as follows (stock options and intrinsic value in
thousands): 



      
Stock
      Options

Weighted-AverageExercise Price

Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Term

AggregateIntrinsic Value

Outstanding as of March 31, 2009

          
      25,626

      
$
3.02
      

      



       Granted

9,655



1.01






      
      Exercised

(1,883
)


1.51






       Forfeited

(1,778
)


3.32






      
      Expired

(291
)


11.08






Outstanding as of March 31, 2010

31,329



2.40






      
      Granted

204



2.66






       Exercised

(6,634
)


1.90






      
      Forfeited

(1,747
)


2.05






       Expired

(1,072
)


5.56






Outstanding as of March 31, 2011

22,080



2.43






       Granted and assumed

1,619



2.33






      
      Exercised

(2,982
)


1.79






       Forfeited

(619
)


1.90






      
      Expired

(704
)


8.25






Outstanding as of March 31, 2012

19,394


$      
2.32

2.72

$      
12,695

Vested and expected to vest at March 31,
      2012

19,215


$
2.32

2.69

$
12,646

Exercisable as of March 31, 2012

15,963


$
2.46

2.21

$
9,379
The
following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and
exercisable as of March 31, 2012 (stock options in thousands):


Range of Exercise Prices

Stock
      OptionsOutstanding

Weighted-AverageExercisePrice

Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual
      Life(Years)

Stock OptionsExercisable

Weighted-AverageExercisePrice

$      
0.11
   
-
   
$      
0.63
 
213
      
$      
0.52
      
6.57
      
79
      
$      
0.42

$
0.77

-

$
0.98

5,094


0.98

4.21

3,377


0.98

$
1.00

-

$
1.42

690


1.23

3.49

635


1.23

$
1.52

-

$
2.21

4,579


2.02

1.53

4,564


2.02

$
2.29

-

$
3.42

5,850


2.91

2.69

4,340


3.04

$
3.43

-

$
4.55

2,443


3.79

1.95

2,443


3.79

$
6.70

-

$
7.50

525


6.73

0.09

525


6.73









19,394

$
2.32

2.72

15,963

$
2.46
Expiration dates ranged from April 2012 to
June 2021 for stock options outstanding at March 31, 2012. Prices for stock
options exercised during the three-year period ended March 31, 2012, ranged from
$0.11 to $3.86.
69


Restricted Stock 
A summary of activity relating to our
restricted stock follows (shares in thousands): 




Shares

Weighted-AverageGrant DateFair
      Value

Nonvested at March 31,
      2009
      
6,258

      
$
1.78

      
      Granted

2,526



1.45

       Vested

      (2,853
)


2.01

      
      Forfeited

(796
)


0.83

Nonvested at March 31,
      2010

5,135



1.64

      
      Granted

5,757



1.95

       Vested

(3,665
)


1.60

      
      Forfeited

(587
)


1.45

Nonvested at March 31,
      2011

6,640



1.95

       Granted
      and assumed

6,669



3.14

       Vested

(3,058
)


1.88

      
      Forfeited

(1,390
)


2.73

Nonvested at March 31,
      2012

8,861


$
2.75
NOTE 10: 401K PLAN 
Substantially all of the U.S. employees
are eligible to make contributions to our 401(k) savings and investment plan. We
typically make discretionary contributions to the plan by matching a percentage
of our employees’ contributions. Employer contributions were $3.0 million, $2.6
million and $2.5 million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

NOTE 11: INCOME TAXES 
Pre-tax income (loss) reflected in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010 follows (in thousands): 




For the year ended March 31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

U.S

$      
(8,589
)

$      
271

$      
16,374

Foreign


667



4,283


1,534



$
(7,922
)

$
4,554

$
17,908
Income tax provision consists of the
following (in thousands):




For the year ended March 31,



2012

2011

2010

Federal:
      



      



      




       Current

$      
—


$      
(302
)

$      
(465
)

       Deferred


—



—



—


 


—



(302
)


(465
)

State:













       Current


301



446



(361
)

       Deferred


—



—



—


 


301



446



(361
)

Foreign:













       Current


1,847



74



2,577


       Deferred


(1,261
)


(205
)


(477
)




586



(131
)


2,100


Income tax provision

$
887


$
13


$
1,274

70


The income tax provision differs from the
amount computed by applying the federal statutory rate of 35% to income (loss)
before income taxes as follows (in thousands):




For the year ended March
31,



2012

2011

2010

Expense (benefit) at
      federal statutory rate
      
$      
(2,773
)
      
$      
1,594

      
$      
6,268


State taxes


301



380



340


Unbenefited losses and
      credits


3,471



(1,235
)


(5,591
)

Net accrual (release) of contingent tax
      reserves


(176
)


(466
)


315


Other


64



(260
)


(58
)



$
887


$
13


$
1,274

Significant components of deferred tax
assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands): 




As of March 31,



2012

2011

Deferred tax
    assets:
      



      




      
      Inventory valuation method

$      
6,429


$      
10,366


       Accrued warranty
      expense


3,072



2,849


      
      Distribution reserves


2,377



1,936


       Loss
    carryforwards


54,162



50,179


       Foreign
      tax and research and development credit carryforwards


221,459



221,354


       Restructuring charge
      accruals


710



1,410


       Other
      accruals and reserves not currently deductible for tax purposes


35,177



31,322


       Depreciation and
      amortization methods


4,824



9,572





328,210



328,988


       Less valuation
      allowance


(252,402
)


(245,241
)

      
      Deferred tax asset

$
75,808


$
83,747


Deferred tax
      liabilities:









      
      Acquired intangibles

$
(10,186
)

$
(17,884
)

       Tax on unremitted
      foreign earnings


(15,712
)


(16,557
)

      
      Other


(49,179
)


(49,855
)

       Deferred tax
      liability

$
(75,077
)

$
(84,296
)

Net deferred tax asset (liability)

$
731


$
(549
)
A reconciliation of the gross unrecognized
tax benefits follows (in thousands): 




For the year ended March 31,


      
2012
      
2011
      
2010

Beginning balance

$      
33,012


$      
33,292


$      
32,210


       Settlement and
      effective settlements with tax authorities and related
      remeasurements


(255
)


(357
)


—


       Lapse of statute of
      limitations


(105
)


(228
)


(290
)

       Increase in balances
      related to tax positions taken in prior period


92



82



800


       Increases in balances
      related to tax positions taken during current period


—



223



572


Ending balance

$
32,744


$
33,012


$
33,292

71



During fiscal 2012, we recorded a net
decrease in our unrecognized tax benefits. Including interest and penalties, the
total unrecognized tax benefit at March 31, 2012 was $33.6 million, all of
which, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate. At March
31, 2012 accrued interest and penalties totaled $0.9 million. 
We file our tax returns as prescribed by
the laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our U.S. tax returns have
been audited for years through 2002 by the Internal Revenue Service. In other
major jurisdictions, we are generally open to examination for the most recent
three to five fiscal years. Although timing of the resolution and closure on
audits is highly uncertain, we do not believe it is likely that the unrecognized
tax benefits would materially change in the next 12 months. 
As of March 31, 2012, we had federal net
operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $202.7 million and
$156.9 million, respectively. Our federal net operating loss carryforwards
include $33.6 million attributable to excess tax deductions from stock option
exercises, and are not included in the deferred tax assets shown above. The
benefit of these loss carryforwards will be credited to equity when realized.
The net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts
beginning in fiscal 2013 if not previously utilized, the utilization of which is
limited under the tax law ownership change provision. These carryforwards
include $10.8 million of acquired net operating losses and $15.6 million of
credits. 
Certain changes in stock ownership could
result in a limitation on the amount of net operating loss and tax credit
carryovers that can be utilized each year. Should the company undergo such a
change in stock ownership, it could severely limit the usage of these carryover
tax attributes against future income, resulting in additional tax charges.

Due to our history of net losses and the
difficulty in predicting future results, we believe that we cannot rely on
projections of future taxable income to realize the deferred tax assets.
Accordingly, we have established a full valuation allowance against our U.S. net
deferred tax assets. Significant management judgment is required in determining
our deferred tax assets and liabilities and valuation allowances for purposes of
assessing our ability to realize any future benefit from our net deferred tax
assets. We intend to maintain this valuation allowance until sufficient positive
evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowance. Our income
tax expense recorded in the future will be reduced to the extent that sufficient
positive evidence materializes to support a reversal of, or decrease in, our
valuation allowance.
NOTE 12: NET INCOME (LOSS) PER
SHARE
Equity Instruments Outstanding

We have granted stock options and
restricted stock units under our Plans that, upon exercise and vesting,
respectively, would increase shares outstanding. On November 15, 2010, we issued
3.50% convertible subordinated notes which are convertible at the option of the
holders at any time prior to maturity into shares of Quantum common stock at a
conversion price of $4.33 per share. These notes, if converted, would increase
shares outstanding.
On June 3, 2009 we entered into an
agreement with EMC Corporation (“EMC”) which provides for the issuance of
certain warrants. On June 23, 2009, we issued a warrant to EMC to purchase 10
million shares of our common stock at a $0.38 per share exercise price. Only in
the event of a change of control of Quantum will this warrant vest and be
exercisable. It expires seven years from the date of issuance or three years
after change of control, whichever occurs first. Due to these terms, no
share-based compensation expense related to this warrant has been recorded to
date. 
At March 31, 2010, we had outstanding
4.375% convertible subordinated notes which were convertible at the option of
the holders at any time prior to maturity into shares of Quantum common stock at
a conversion price of $4.35 per share. 
72


Net Income (Loss) per Share

The following table set forth the
computation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share (in thousands,
except per-share data):



For the year ended March
31,


2012
     
2011
     
2010

Net income
(loss)
$       
(8,809
)

$       
4,541

$       
16,634


      
      Interest on dilutive notes

—



—


1,249


       Net gain on
      extinguishment of dilutive notes

—



—


(12,859
)

Income (loss) for purposes of computing
      income (loss) per diluted share
$
(8,809
)

$
4,541

$
5,024


Weighted average shares
      and common share equivalents (“CSE”):











      
      Basic

232,599



220,888


212,672


             
      Dilutive CSE from stock plans

—



8,815


4,056


             
      Dilutive CSE from purchase plan

—



35


471


             
      Dilutive CSE from convertible notes

—



—


6,562


      
      Diluted

232,599



229,738


223,761


Basic net income (loss)
      per share
$
(0.04
)

$
0.02

$
0.08


Diluted net income (loss) per
share
$
(0.04
)

$
0.02

$
0.02

The computations of diluted net income
(loss) per share for the periods presented excluded the following because the
effect would have been antidilutive: 
For fiscal 2012 and 2011, 31.2 million and 11.6
  million weighted equivalent shares, respectively, of the 3.50% convertible subordinated notes were
  excluded. 
Stock options to purchase 11.5 million, 10.4
  million and 18.8 million weighted average shares in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, were excluded. 
Unvested restricted stock units of 5.1 million,
  49,000 and 0.2 million weighted average shares for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2012, respectively, were excluded. 
NOTE 13: COMMITMENTS AND
CONTINGENCIES
Lease Commitments 
We lease certain facilities under
non-cancelable lease agreements and also have equipment leases for various
office equipment. Some of the leases have renewal options ranging from one to
ten years and others contain escalation clauses. These leases are operating
leases. 
In February
2006, we leased a campus facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado, comprised of
three buildings in three separate operating leases with initial terms of five,
seven and 15 years. In August 2010, we negotiated lower lease rates and a five
year extension on one of the buildings. The future minimum lease payment
schedule below includes $29.9 million for this Colorado Springs campus.

Rent expense was $12.7 million in both
fiscal 2012 and 2011 and $13.8 million for fiscal 2010. Sublease income was
immaterial in fiscal 2012 and 2011 and was $0.7 million for fiscal 2010.

73


Future minimum lease payments are as
follows (in thousands): 



Lease Payments

For the year ending March
      31,



      
      2013
$
12,285

       2014

10,055

      
      2015

9,095

       2016
 
7,334

      
      2017

5,190

       Thereafter

18,411


$       
62,370
Commitments to Purchase Inventory

We use contract manufacturers for certain
manufacturing functions. Under these arrangements, the contract manufacturer
procures inventory to manufacture products based upon our forecast of customer
demand. We are responsible for the financial impact on the contract manufacturer
of any reduction or product mix shift in the forecast relative to materials that
the contract manufacturer had already purchased under a prior forecast. Such a
variance in forecasted demand could require a cash payment for finished goods in
excess of current customer demand or for costs of excess or obsolete inventory.
As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, we had issued non-cancelable purchase commitments
for $34.3 million and $33.8 million, respectively, to purchase finished goods
from our contract manufacturers.
Legal Proceedings 
On September 12, 2011, Compression
Technology Solutions LLC (“CTS”) filed a patent infringement lawsuit against a
group of companies, consisting of Quantum, CA., Inc., EMC Corporation,
Hewlett-Packard Company, International Business Machines Corp., NetApp, Inc. and
Quest Software, Inc., in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of
Missouri, alleging that certain unspecified products of the defendants,
characterized as “deduplication software systems,” and, in the case of Quantum,
including Quantum’s “DXi Series Deduplication software,” fall within the scope
of patent 5,414,650. CTS is seeking injunctive relief, as well as the recovery
of monetary damages, including treble damages for willful infringement. We do
not believe we infringe the CTS patent; we believe that the CTS patent is
invalid, and we intend to defend ourselves vigorously. In April 2012, our motion
to transfer venue was granted and the lawsuit was transferred to the U.S.
District Court in the Northern District of California. Due to the inherent
uncertainty of litigation, we cannot identify probable or estimable damages
related to the lawsuit. 
Indemnifications 
We have certain financial guarantees, both
express and implied, related to product liability and potential infringement of
intellectual property. Other than certain product liabilities recorded as of
March 31, 2012 and 2011, we did not record a liability associated with these
guarantees, as we have little or no history of costs associated with such
indemnification requirements. Contingent liabilities associated with product
liability may be mitigated by insurance coverage that we maintain. 
In the normal course of business to
facilitate transactions of our services and products, we indemnify certain
parties with respect to certain matters. We have agreed to hold certain parties
harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations or covenants,
or out of intellectual property infringement or other claims made against
certain parties. These agreements may limit the time within which an
indemnification claim can be made and the amount of the claim. In addition, we
have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors,
and our bylaws contain similar indemnification obligations to our agents.

It is not possible to determine the
maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the
limited history of our indemnification claims and the unique facts and
circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made
by us under these agreements have not had a material impact on our operating
results, financial position or cash flows.
74


NOTE 14: GEOGRAPHIC AND CUSTOMER
INFORMATION
Revenue, attributed to regions based on
the location of customers, and long-lived assets, comprised of property and
equipment, by region were as follows (in thousands): 



As of and
      for the year ended March 31,


2012

2011

2010

 
Revenue
      
    
Long-LivedAssets
      
    
Revenue
      
    
Long-LivedAssets
      
    
Revenue
      
    
Long-LivedAssets

Americas
$      
    
411,517

$      
    
23,738

$      
    
430,125

$      
    
23,596

$      
    
448,830

$      
    
22,522

Europe

177,661


1,030


179,519


787


188,367


1,099

Asia Pacific

63,192


672


62,626


597


44,230


907


$
652,370

$
25,440

$
672,270

$
24,980

$
681,427

$
24,528
No customer accounted for 10% or more of
our revenue in fiscal 2012. Dell accounted for $68.7 million and 10% of revenue
in fiscal 2011 and $86.5 million or 13% of revenue in fiscal 2010. 
Following are revenues attributable to
each of our product groups, services and royalties (in
thousands): 



For the year ended March
31,


2012
       
2011
       
2010

Disk systems and software
      solutions
$       
119,044

$       
110,678

$       
83,508

Tape automation systems

245,030


254,153


263,977

Devices and
media

87,266


92,072


108,616

Service

144,364


151,095


156,477

Royalty

56,666


64,272


68,849

       Total
      revenue
$
652,370

$
672,270

$
681,427
NOTE 15: UNAUDITED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA



For the year ended March 31,
    2012

(In thousands, except
      per share data)
1stQuarter
       
2ndQuarter
       
3rdQuarter
       
4thQuarter

Revenue
$       
153,535


$       
165,039

$       
173,492

$       
160,304


Gross margin

63,262



71,611


73,717


65,245


Net income
(loss)

(5,226
)


3,561


3,914


(11,058
)

Basic and diluted net income (loss) per
      share

(0.02
)


0.01


0.02


(0.05
)

 


For the year ended March 31,
    2011


1stQuarter

2ndQuarter

3rdQuarter

4thQuarter

Revenue
$
163,225


$
167,722

$
176,226

$
165,097


Gross margin

67,454



71,396


75,570


68,562


Net income
(loss)

(2,696
)


3,025


5,864


(1,652
)

Basic and diluted net income (loss) per
      share

(0.01
)


0.01


0.03


(0.01
)
75


SCHEDULE II 
CONSOLIDATED VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS
Allowance for doubtful accounts (in
thousands):



Balance atbeginning
    ofperiod
       
Releasescharged toexpense
       
Deductions (i)
       
Balance at endof period

For the year
    ended:














       March
      31, 2010
$      
    
1,999

$      
    
(453
)

$         
(748
)

$      
    
798

       March 31, 2011

798


(502
)


107



403

       March
      31, 2012

403


(125
)


(61
)


217____________________ 


       
(i)
       
Uncollectible accounts written off, net of
      recoveries.




ITEM 9.  

CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
      ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None.
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Attached as exhibits to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K are certifications of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief
Financial Officer (“CFO”), which are required pursuant to Rule 13a-14 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). This “Controls
and Procedures” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K includes information
concerning the controls and controls evaluation referenced in the
certifications. This section of the Annual Report on Form 10-K should be read in
conjunction with the certifications and the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
as described below, for a more complete understanding of the matters presented.

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures 
We evaluated the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of
the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This control evaluation
was performed under the supervision and with the participation of management,
including our CEO and CFO. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the
Exchange Act, such as this Annual Report on Form 10-K is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified by the SEC. Disclosure
controls are also designed to ensure that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to
allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
Based on the controls evaluation, our CEO
and CFO have concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, our disclosure controls were effective. 
Management Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting 
Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting,
as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and
CFO, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012 based on the guidelines
established in Internal Control – Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on the results
of our evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2012 to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of
financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. 
76


PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, our
independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report
regarding its assessment of the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of March 31, 2012, as set forth at the beginning of Part II, Item 8
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Limitations on Effectiveness of
Controls 
Our management, including our CEO and CFO,
does not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over
financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no
matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further,
the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their
costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation
of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances
of fraud, if any, within the Company have been detected. These inherent
limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be
faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake.
Additional controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons,
by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the controls.
The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain
assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential
future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes
in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control
system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.

Changes in Internal Controls over
Financial Reporting 
There was no change in our internal
control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 that
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal controls over financial reporting. 
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

None. 
PART III 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The information required by this item with
respect to our directors, audit committee and audit committee financial expert
is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in our proxy statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Commission
within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. For
information pertaining to our executive officers, refer to the “Executive
Officers of Quantum Corporation” section of Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. 
We have adopted a code of ethics that
applies to our principal executive officer and all members of our finance
department, including the principal financial officer and principal accounting
officer. This code of ethics is posted on our website. The Internet address for
our website is: http://www.quantum.com, and the code
of ethics may be found by clicking “About Us” from the home page and then
choosing “Corporate Governance.” Copies of the code are available free upon
request by a stockholder. 
We intend to satisfy the disclosure
requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver
from, a provision of this code of ethics by posting such information on our
website, at the address and location specified above. 
We have adopted Corporate Governance
Principles, which are available on our website at http://www.quantum.com, where they may
be found by clicking “About Us” from the home page and then choosing “Corporate
Governance.” Copies of our Corporate Governance Principles are available free
upon request by a stockholder. The charters of our Audit Committee, Leadership
and Compensation Committee and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee are
also available on our website at http://www.quantum.com, where they may
be found by clicking “About Us” from the home page and then choosing “Corporate
Governance.” Copies of these committee charters are available free upon request
by a stockholder. 
77


ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in our proxy statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Commission
within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.





ITEM 12.  

SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN
      BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
      
The following discloses our equity
compensation plan information (securities in thousands):




Year ended March 31, 2012



(a)Number ofsecurities to
      beissued uponexercise ofoutstanding stockoptions,
      warrantsand rights

Weighted-averageexercise
      priceof outstandingstock options,warrants
      andrights
 
Number
      ofsecuritiesremainingavailablefor futureissuance
      underequitycompensation plans(excluding sharesreflected in
      column(a))

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders
      (1)
       
26,550
       
$
1.60
       
7,304

Equity
      compensation plans not approved by stockholders (2), (3), (4)

1,705

$
1.65

—



28,255
 
$
1.60

7,304____________________ 


       
(1)
       
Included in the stockholder approved plans are 8.9
      million restricted stock units with a zero purchase price. The weighted
      average exercise price of outstanding stock options for stockholder
      approved plans is $2.39.


(2)

The Supplemental Stock Option Plan (“SSOP”) was
      terminated April 1, 2003, from which time no new stock options or stock
      purchase rights will be granted. Outstanding stock options granted under
      the SSOP prior to April 1, 2003, remain outstanding and continue to be
      governed by the terms and conditions of the SSOP.


(3)

Advanced Digital Information Corporation’s 1999 Stock
      Incentive Compensation Plan was assumed by Quantum on August 22, 2006
      according to the terms detailed in the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated
      May 2, 2006 (“Merger Agreement”). Outstanding stock options granted under
      this plan continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of this
      plan; however, the number of stock options and exercise prices of the
      outstanding stock options were changed in accordance with the formula in
      the Merger Agreement for the right to purchase Quantum common
    stock.


(4)

The Pancetera 2008 Stock Incentive Compensation Plan was
      assumed by Quantum on June 13, 2011 according to the terms detailed in the
      Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 13, 2011 (“Pancetera Merger
      Agreement”). Outstanding stock options and restricted shares granted under this plan continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of this plan; however, the number of stock options and restricted shares and exercise prices of the outstanding stock options were changed in accordance with the formula in the Pancetera Merger Agreement for the right to purchase Quantum common stock.

We also have an employee stock purchase
plan with 2.9 million shares available for issuance that has been approved by
stockholders. 
The remaining information required by this
item is incorporated by reference to the information set forth in our proxy
statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the
Commission within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended March 31,
2012.
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in our proxy statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Commission
within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.

78


ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND
SERVICES 
The information required by this item is
incorporated by reference to the information set forth in our proxy statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Commission
within 120 days after the end of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.

PART IV 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES 
Upon written request, we will provide,
without charge, a copy of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the
Consolidated Financial Statements, financial statement schedules and any
exhibits for our most recent fiscal year. All requests should be sent to:

     Investor
Relations     Quantum Corporation    
1650 Technology Drive, Suite 800     San Jose,
California 95110     (408) 944-4450 
    
(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:



       
1.
       
Financial
      Statements—Our Consolidated Financial
      Statements are listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial
      Statements.


 

 
2.
 
Financial Statement
      Schedules — Our consolidated valuation
      and qualifying accounts (Schedule II) financial statement schedule is
      listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements. All other
      schedules have been omitted because the information required to be set
      forth therein is not applicable or is shown in the Consolidated Financial
      Statements or the notes hereto.
    
(b) Exhibits 
79










Incorporated by Reference

ExhibitNumber
     
Exhibit Description
     
Form
     
File No.
     
Exhibit(s)
     
Filing Date

     
2.1
     

Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Registrant,
      Pancetera Software, Inc., Quarry Acquisition Corporation and Henrik
      Rosendahl as the stockholder representative, dated June 13,
2011.

10-Q

001-13449

     
10.8

     

   
August 9, 2011
   


3.1


Amended and Restated Certificate of
      Incorporation of Registrant.

8-K

001-13449


3.1




August 16, 2007



3.2


Amended and Restated By-laws of Registrant, as
      amended.

8-K

001-13449


3.1




December 5, 2008



3.3


Certificate of Designation of Rights,
      Preferences and Privileges of Series B Junior Participating Preferred
      Stock.

S-3

333-109587


4.7




October 9, 2003



3.4


Certification of Amendment to the Bylaws of Quantum
      Corporation, as adopted on January 20, 2010.

8-K

001-13449


3.1




January 26, 2010


 
4.1


Stockholder Agreement, dated as of
      October 28, 2002, by and between Registrant and Private Capital
      Management.

10-Q

001-13449


4.2




November 13,
2002



4.2


Indenture for 3.50% Convertible Senior Subordinated Notes
      due 2015, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association, as
      trustee, dated November 15, 2010, including the form of 3.50% Convertible
      Senior Subordinated Note due 2015.

8-K

001-13449


4.1




November 15, 2010



10.1


Form of Indemnification Agreement
      between Registrant and the Named Executive Officers and Directors.
    *

8-K

001-13449


10.4


 

April 4, 2007



10.2


Chief Executive Change of Control Agreement between
      Registrant and Jon W. Gacek.*

8-K

001-13449


10.3




April 5, 2011



10.3


Executive Chairman Change of Control
      Agreement between Registrant and Richard E. Belluzzo.*

8-K

001-13449


10.4




April 5, 2011



10.4


Form of Officer Change of Control Agreement between
      Registrant and each of Registrant’s Executive Officers (Other than the
      Executive Chairman and the CEO).*

8-K

001-13449


10.5




April 5, 2011



10.5


Form of Amended and Restated Director
      Change of Control Agreement between Registrant and the Directors (Other
      than the Executive Chairman and the CEO).*

8-K

001-13449


10.2




May 10, 2011



10.6


Amended and Restated 1993 Long-Term Incentive Plan
      effective November 10, 2007. *

8-K

001-13449


10.1




November 15, 2007



10.7


Form of Restricted Stock Unit
      Agreement. For U.S. employees under the Amended and Restated 1993
      Long-Term Incentive Plan. *

10-Q

001-13449


10.3




November 7, 2008



10.8


Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. For non-U.S.
      employees under the Amended and Restated 1993 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
      *

10-Q

001-13449


10.4




November 7, 2008



10.9


Form of Stock Option Agreement. For
      U.S. employees under the Amended and Restated 1993 Long-Term Incentive
      Plan. *

10-K

001-13449


10.9




June 14, 2011



10.10


Form of Stock Option Agreement. For non-U.S. employees
      under the Amended and Restated 1993 Long-Term Incentive Plan. *

10-K

001-13449


10.1
0



June 14, 2011



10.11


Form of Stock Option Agreement. For
      Chief Executive Officer under the Amended and Restated 1993 Long-Term
      Incentive Plan. *
 
10-K

001-13449


10.1
1



June 14, 2011



10.12


Amended and Restated Nonemployee Director Equity
      Incentive Plan effective November 10, 2007. *

8-K

001-13449


10.2




November 15, 2007



10.13


Form of Stock Option Agreement under
      the Amended and Restated Nonemployee Director Equity Incentive Plan,
      effective November 10, 2007. *

10-K

001-13449


10.1
3



June 14, 2011

80 










Incorporated by Reference

ExhibitNumber
    

 Exhibit
      Description
    

Form
    

File
      No.
    

Exhibit(s)
    
    
Filing Date

     
10.14
     

Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
      under the Amended and Restated Nonemployee Director Equity Incentive Plan,
      effective November 10, 2007. *

10-Q

001-13449

     
10.2
     

   
November 7, 2008
   


10.15


Advanced Digital Information Corporation Amended and
      Restated 1999 Stock Incentive Compensation Plan. *

S-8

001-13449


4.4



August 25, 2006



10.16


Employment Offer Letter, dated March 31,
      2011, between Registrant and Jon W. Gacek.*

8-K

001-13449


10.1



April 5, 2011



10.17


Offer Letter, dated March 31, 2011, between Registrant
      and Richard E. Belluzzo.*

8-K

001-13449


10.2



April 5, 2011



10.18


Employment Offer Letter, dated August 31,
      2006, between Registrant and William C. Britts. *

8-K

001-13449


10.1



September 7, 2006



10.19


Amendment to Employment Offer Letter between Registrant
      and William C. Britts. *

10-Q

001-13449


10.6



November 7, 2008



10.20


Amendment to Employment Offer Letter between
      Registrant and William C. Britts.*

10-Q

001-13449


10.3



February 5, 2010
 


10.21


Offer Letter, dated May 25, 2007, between Registrant and
      Joseph A. Marengi. *

8-K

001-13449


10.1



May 25, 2007



10.22


Credit Agreement, dated March 29, 2012, by
      and among the Registrant, Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC, as
      Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. ‡














10.23


Security Agreement, dated March 29, 2012, among the
      Registrant and Wells Fargo Capital Finance, LLC.

8-K

001-13449


10.2



April 2, 2012



10.24


Offer Letter of Mr. David A. Krall, dated
      August 11, 2011.*

8-K

001-13449


10.1
 


August 22, 2011



10.25


Offer Letter, dated May 2, 2011, between Registrant and
      David E. Roberson. *

8-K

001-13449

 
10.1



May 10, 2011



10.26


Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Real
      Property, dated as November 18, 2005, among Registrant, SELCO Service
      Corporation and CS/Federal Drive LLC, as amended by Amendments 1 through
      6.

8-K

001-13449


10.1



February 10, 2006



10.27


Lease Agreement, dated February 6, 2006, between
      Registrant and CS/Federal Drive AB LLC (for Building A).

8-K

001-13449


10.2



February 10, 2006



10.28


Lease Agreement, dated February 6, 2006,
      between Registrant and CS/Federal Drive AB LLC (for Building B).

8-K

001-13449


10.3



February 10, 2006



10.29


Lease Agreement, dated February 6, 2006, between
      Registrant and CS/Federal Drive AB LLC (for Building C).

8-K

001-13449


10.4



February 10, 2006



10.30


Patent Cross License Agreement, dated February 27, 2006, between Registrant and Storage Technology Corporation.

8-K

001-13449


10.1



March 3, 2006



10.31


Tax Sharing and Indemnity Agreement by and among
      Registrant, Maxtor Corporation and Insula Corporation, dated April 2,
      2001.

8-K

001-13449


10.1



December 29, 2004



10.32


Mutual General Release and Global Settlement
      Agreement, dated as of December 23, 2004, between Maxtor Corporation and
      Registrant.

10-Q

001-13449


10.4



February 2, 2005



10.33


Offer Letter, dated August 20, 2007, between Registrant
      and Paul Auvil. *

8-K

001-13449


10.1



August 29, 2007



10.34


Warrant Purchase Agreement, dated as of June
      3, 2009, by and between Quantum Corporation and EMC Corporation.

8-K

001-13449


10.1



June 9, 2009



10.35


First Amendment to the Purchase Agreement, dated as of
      June 17, 2009, by and between Quantum Corporation and EMC
      Corporation.

8-K

001-13449


10.1



June 23, 2009
 
 
10.36
 
 
Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase
      Plan, dated January 1, 2010.*
 
8-K
 
001-13449
 
 
10.1
 
 
 
January 6, 2010
 

81










Incorporated by Reference














ExhibitNumber
     
Exhibit
      Description
     
Form
     
File
      No.
     
Exhibit(s)
     
Filing
      Date

12
.1

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
    ‡









21


Quantum Subsidiaries. ‡









23


Consent of Independent Registered Public
      Accounting Firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. ‡









24


Power of Attorney (see signature page).









31
.1

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer
      pursuant to Section 302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. ‡









31
.2

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section
      302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. ‡









32
.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer
      pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of
      the Sarbanes-Oxley act of 2002. †


 






32
.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
      section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley act
      of 2002. †





 

 

101
.INS

XBRL Instance Document.††









101
.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.††






 


101
.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase
      Document.††


 
 





101
.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.††

 
 
 
 




101
.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase
      Document.††
 
 







101
.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.††








____________________ 


*
     
Indicates management contract or
      compensatory plan, contract or arrangement.

‡

Filed herewith.

†
 
Furnished herewith.

††
 
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting
      Language) information is furnished and not filed herewith, is not a part
      of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or
      12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of
      section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and otherwise is not
      subject to liability under these sections.
82


SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.





QUANTUM CORPORATION

 

/s/
      LINDA M. BREARD

Linda M. Breard

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial and Chief
      Accounting Officer)
Dated: June 14, 2012
83


POWER OF ATTORNEY 
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that
each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Jon W. Gacek
and Linda M. Breard, jointly and severally, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each
with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to
sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same,
with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do
or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the
following persons in the capacities and on June 14, 2012.


Signature
     
Title

/s/      
JON W. GACEK

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer

Jon W. Gacek

(Principal Executive Officer)

 

s/
LINDA M. BREARD

Chief Financial Officer

Linda M. Breard

(Principal Financial and Chief Accounting
  Officer)

 

/s/
PAUL R. AUVIL
III

Director

Paul R. Auvil III
 


 

/s/
RICHARD E.
    BELLUZZO

Executive Chairman and Director

Richard E. Belluzzo



 

/s/
MICHAEL A. BROWN

Director

Michael A. Brown



 

/s/
THOMAS S.
    BUCHSBAUM

Director

Thomas S. Buchsbaum



 

/s/
ELIZABETH A.
    FETTER

Director

Elizabeth A. Fetter



 

/s/
DAVID A. KRALL

Director

David A. Krall



 

/s/
JOSEPH A.
MARENGI

Director

Joseph A. Marengi



 

/s/
DAVID E.
ROBERSON

Director

David E. Roberson


84





