
10-K
1
d318259d10k.htm
ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K


Annual Report on Form 10-K


Table of Contents




   UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549 
Form 10-K   


 
þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012  OR   


 
¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period
from                    
to                      Commission File No. 000-17948  ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Delaware
 
94-2838567

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




209 Redwood Shores Parkway
 
94065

Redwood City, California
 
(Zip Code)

(Address of principal executive offices)
 

 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 
(650) 628-1500  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of Each Class
  
 Name of Each Exchange on Which
Registered

Common Stock, $0.01 par value
  
NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None  Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes þ        No ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes ¨        No þ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes þ        No ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes þ        No ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    þ  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 










Large accelerated filer    þ
 
Accelerated filer    ¨
  
Non-accelerated filer    ¨
 
Smaller reporting company    ¨


 
(Do not check if a smaller reporting
company)                
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
    Yes ¨        No þ  The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value, held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of September 30, 2011, the last business day of our second fiscal
quarter, was $6,524 million.  As of May 22, 2012 there were 317,863,091 shares of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value,
outstanding.  Documents Incorporated by Reference  Portions of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. 


Table of Contents
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. 
2012 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT  Table of Contents   










 
  
 
  
Page
 


  
PART I
  




 Item 1
  
Business
  
 
3
  

 Item 1A
  
Risk Factors
  
 
13
  

 Item 1B
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
25
  

 Item 2
  
Properties
  
 
25
  

 Item 3
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
25
  

 Item 4
  
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
25
  






  
PART II
  




 Item 5
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
26
  

 Item 6
  
Selected Financial Data
  
 
28
  

 Item 7
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
29
  

 Item 7A
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
59
  

 Item 8
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
63
  

 Item 9
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting on Financial Disclosure
  
 
112
  

 Item 9A
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
112
  

 Item 9B
  
Other Information
  
 
113
  






  
PART III
  




 Item 10
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
114
  

 Item 11
  
Executive Compensation
  
 
114
  

 Item 12
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
114
  

 Item 13
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
114
  

 Item 14
  
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
114
  






  
PART IV
  




 Item 15
  
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
114
  

 Signatures
  
 
115
  

 Exhibit Index
  
 
117
  

  2 


Table of Contents




   CAUTIONARY NOTE
ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  This Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic
performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that
underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate” (and the negative of any of these terms), “future” and similar
expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect management’s current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult
to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may
affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed under the heading “Risk Factors,” beginning on page 13.  PART I   


Item 1:
Business  We
develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of video game machines and electronic devices (which we call “platforms”), including: 
 


 
•
 
 Video game consoles, such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii, 
 


 
•
 
 Personal computers, including the Apple Macintosh (we refer to personal computers and the Macintosh together as “PCs”),
  


 
•
 
 Mobile devices, such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones, 
 


 
•
 
 Tablets and electronic readers, such as the Apple iPad and the Amazon Kindle, and 
 


 
•
 
 The Internet, including social networking sites such as Facebook.  Our Strategy  Our business is rapidly transforming. Historically, we have derived most of
our sales from disk-based videogame products that are sold through retailers (we call these “packaged goods” products). Now, however, the fastest growing part of our business is delivering games directly to consumers through online and
wireless networks. For example:   


 
•
 
 Players can access online-delivered content and services as add-ons to our console and PC games; 
 


 
•
 
 Consumers can download our PC games (and those of other publishers) directly through our Origin online platform, as well as through third party online
download stores and services, including through Sony’s PlayStation Network and Microsoft’s Xbox LIVE Marketplace;   


 
•
 
 We provide games for mobile devices and Internet-only games such as our social and Play4Free offerings that are available only through online and
wireless delivery; and   


 
•
 
 We offer large-scale, massively multi-player online games and game services on a subscription basis. 
At the same time, we have aggressively reduced the number of significant titles releases that we launch each year. In fiscal year 2009, we published over
60 packaged goods products, each of which was primarily a stand-alone game with few or no online features, and in each fiscal year since, we have launched fewer titles on consoles, while building additional online features, content and services
around each one of our titles. This strategy has resulted in an increase in revenue per title and in our overall revenue, year-over-year on a non-GAAP basis. In 
  3 


Table of Contents

fiscal year 2013, we plan to offer only 14 titles on video game consoles and PCs (each with additional online features, content and/or services) and we plan to offer more than 40 titles for
social, mobile and Play4Free platforms to take advantage of the growth opportunities on those platforms.  Brands
 Our strategy is to turn our core intellectual properties (which we call “brands”) into year-round businesses
available on a range of platforms. We have created, licensed and acquired a strong portfolio of brands, which span a diverse range of categories, including action-adventure, casual, family, fantasy, first-person shooter, horror, science fiction,
role-playing, racing, simulation, social, sports, and strategy. Our portfolio of brands includes wholly-owned brands such as Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies. Our portfolio also includes brands
based on licensed intellectual property including sports-based brands such as Madden NFL and FIFA, and titles based on other popular brands such as Star Wars: The Old Republic.  A cornerstone of our brand strategy is to publish products that can be iterated, or sequeled, and that can be integrated across multiple game-playing devices. For example, a new edition of our most
popular sports product, FIFA Soccer, is released each year for consoles, PCs, mobile phones, tablets and Facebook. Other products, such as The Sims and Battlefield are sequeled on a less-frequent basis. 
Platforms  Our
ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, another cornerstone of our business strategy. Technology advances
continue to create new platforms and distribution opportunities for interactive entertainment and these technologies impact the way consumers play video games. We expect that new platforms will continue to grow the consumer base for our products
while also providing competition for established video game platforms.  Further, we are investing significantly in our own distribution
platform, which consumers are already using to purchase and play games directly from us. Through online portals such as Origin and Play4Free, we are acquiring consumers of our games and game services directly, and establishing on-going relationships
with them. Through these relationships, we are engaging them in their favorite brands across a number of devices, allowing them to communicate with their friends, and inviting them to try our other game experiences. We have generated substantial
growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless platforms. 
Significant Business Developments in Fiscal Year 2012  Acquisition of PopCap Games, Inc. In August 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of PopCap Games Inc. (“PopCap”), a leading developer of casual games for mobile
devices, tablets, PCs, and social networking sites. This acquisition strengthens our position in casual and social gaming – two of the fastest growing segments of our sector with the addition of PopCap’s popular intellectual properties,
which include Bejeweled, Plants v. Zombies, Zuma, Peggle, and Bookworm.  Digital Content Distribution and Services. Consumers
are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of
online-delivered products and services including through our Origin platform. Our packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are
add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as
Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices.
  4 


Table of Contents




   Advances in mobile technology have
resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology and consumer acceptance of digital distribution by offering different
sales models, such as subscription services, online downloads for a one-time fee, micro-transactions and advertising-supported free-to-play games and game sites. In addition, we offer our consumers the ability to play a game across platforms on
multiple devices. On a non-GAAP basis, our digital revenue has grown significantly from fiscal year 2009 to fiscal year 2012 and the average revenue of our ten best-selling brands has continued to increase each year during this same period. Our
profitability has also increased as digital revenue becomes a greater portion of our business, reflecting the lower cost of digital revenue. 
Growth of Casual and Social Games. The popularity of wireless and other emerging gaming platforms such as smart phones, tablets and social
networking sites, such as Facebook, has led to the growth of casual and social gaming. Casual and social games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization including free-to-play and micro-transaction business
models, and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic of younger and older players and more female players than video games played on console devices. These areas are among the fastest growing segments of our
sector and we have responded to this opportunity by developing casual and social games based on our established intellectual properties such as The Sims, FIFA, and Battlefield, and with our acquisition of PopCap. We expect sales of social and casual
games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business.  Global Operations 
We were initially incorporated in California in 1982. In September 1991, we were reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Our principal executive
offices are located at 209 Redwood Shores Parkway, Redwood City, California 94065 and our telephone number is (650) 628-1500.  We operate
development studios (which develop products and perform other related functions) in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We also engage third parties to assist with the development of our games at their own development and production studios.
Internationally, we conduct business through our international headquarters in Switzerland and have wholly-owned subsidiaries throughout the world, including offices in Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America. 
Our North America net revenue, which was primarily generated in the United States, was $1,991 million in fiscal year 2012, as compared to $1,836 million
in fiscal year 2011 and $2,025 million in fiscal year 2010. International net revenue (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States) increased by 23 percent to $2,152 million, or 52 percent of total net revenue in fiscal
year 2012, as compared to $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2011 and as compared to $1,629 million, or 45 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2010. The amounts of net revenue and long-lived assets attributable
to each of our geographic regions for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 of this report.  In fiscal year 2012, revenue from sales of FIFA 12 and Battlefield 3 represented approximately 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively of our total net revenue. In fiscal year 2011,
revenue from sales of FIFA 11 represented approximately 11 percent of our total net revenue. In fiscal years 2010, no title accounted for 10 percent or more of our total net revenue.  For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, research and development expenses were $1,212 million, $1,153 million and $1,229 million, respectively. 
Our Operating Structure  Our studios and
development teams are organized around our Label structure. Each Label operates globally with dedicated game development and marketing teams. These Labels are supported by our Global Publishing Organization that is responsible for the distribution,
sales, and marketing of our products, including strategic 
  5 


Table of Contents

planning, operations, and manufacturing functions. In addition, our EA Digital division works with our studios and Global Publishing on digital marketing, customer acquisition and the cross
promotion of products and services.  EA Games  EA Games is home to the largest number of our studios and development teams, which together create an expansive and diverse portfolio of games and related content and services marketed under the EA brand
in categories such as action-adventure, role playing, racing and first-person shooter games. The EA Games portfolio is comprised primarily of wholly-owned intellectual properties and includes several established franchises such as Battlefield, Dead
Space, Medal of Honor and Need for Speed. EA Games titles are developed primarily at the following EA studios: Criterion, DICE, EA Los Angeles, Visceral, and EA Montreal.  EA Games also contracts with external game developers, to provide these developers with a variety of services including development assistance, publishing, and distribution of their games. 
EA SPORTS  EA
SPORTS develops a collection of sports-based video games and related content and services marketed under the EA SPORTS brand. EA SPORTS games range from simulated sports titles with realistic graphics based on real-world sports leagues, players,
events and venues to more casual games with arcade-style gameplay and graphics. We seek to release new iterations of many of our EA SPORTS titles annually in connection with the commencement of a sports league’s season or a major sporting event
when appropriate. Our EA SPORTS franchises include FIFA, Fight Night, Madden NFL, NCAA Football, NHL Hockey, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour. EA SPORTS games are developed primarily at our EA Canada studio in Burnaby, British Columbia, and our EA Tiburon
studio located in Orlando, Florida.  BioWare  BioWare develops role-playing games, focused on rich stories, unforgettable characters and vast worlds to discover. BioWare’s portfolio includes the MMO role-playing game Star Wars: The Old
Republic and the Mass Effect and Dragon Age franchises. BioWare operates in Texas, California, Canada, and Ireland. 
Maxis  Maxis
(formerly EA Play) is focused on creating compelling games and related content and services for a mass audience. Maxis games are intended to be easily accessible for people of all ages, and to inspire fun and creativity. Maxis products include
wholly-owned franchises such as The Sims, SimCity, MySims, and Spore. In fiscal 2012, we released titles in The Sims 3 franchise, and together with Playfish, The Sims Social game on Facebook. Maxis oversees internal studios and development
teams located in California, Utah, Beijing, China and Guildford, England, and works with third-party developers.  PopCap
 PopCap develops easy-to-learn games that everyone can enjoy. PopCap games, including hits such as Bejeweled, Plants vs. Zombies, Zuma,
Peggle, and Bookworm, are characterized by their mass appeal, flexible monetization, and fun and approachable gameplay. PopCap games are developed primarily in Seattle, Washington. 
Social/Mobile Studios  Our Social/Mobile studios are focused on developing interactive games for play on mobile devices and Internet platforms, including social networking sites such as Facebook. 
EA Mobile. Through EA Mobile, we are a leading global publisher of games for mobile devices. Our customers purchase and download
our games through a mobile carrier’s branded e-commerce service and mobile application storefronts accessed directly from their mobile devices. EA Mobile develops games for mobile devices at studios located in the United States, Canada,
Romania, Australia, India, 
  6 


Table of Contents




   
and Korea. Our focus is on producing high-quality, branded titles across a multitude of carriers, geographies, and mobile devices and tablets, including the Apple iPhone and iPad, and Google
Android compatible phones.  Playfish. Through Playfish, we offer free-to-play social games including The Sims
Social, Pet Society, EA Sports FIFA Superstars and Madden NFL Superstars that can be played on platforms such as Facebook, Google, iPhone and Android. Playfish generates revenue through sales of digital content and
Internet-based advertising.  Pogo. Through our Pogo online service, we offer casual games such as card, puzzle and word
games on www.pogo.com, as well as on Facebook and other platforms. In addition to paid subscriptions, Pogo also generates revenue through Internet-based advertising and sales of digital content. 
In addition, we have a licensing agreement with Hasbro, which provides us with the exclusive rights to create digital games for all major platforms based
on most of Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties, including MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE (for United States and Canada), YAHTZEE (excluding the Nordic countries), NERF, and LITTLEST PET SHOP. Hasbro games are developed by our EA Mobile, Pogo and
Social studios.  Competition 
We compete with other video game companies for the leisure time and discretionary spending of consumers, as well as with providers of different forms of
entertainment, such as motion pictures, television, social networking, online casual entertainment, and music. Our competitors vary in size from very small companies with limited resources to very large, diversified corporations with global
operations and greater financial resources than ours. We also face competition from other video game companies and large media companies to obtain license agreements for the right to use some of the intellectual property included in our products.
 Competition in Games for Console Devices  We compete directly with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, each of which develop and publish software for their respective console platforms. We also compete with numerous companies which, like us, develop
and publish video games that operate on these consoles and on PCs and handheld game players. These competitors include Activision Blizzard, Take-Two Interactive, THQ, and Ubisoft. Diversified media companies such as Disney are also involved in
software game publishing.  Competition in Games for Mobile Devices 
The marketplace for mobile games is characterized by frequent product introductions, rapidly emerging new mobile platforms, new technologies, and new
mobile application storefronts. As the penetration of mobile devices that feature fully-functional browsers and additional gaming capabilities continues to deepen, the demand for applications continues to increase and there are more mobile
application storefronts through which developers can offer products. Mobile game applications are currently being offered by a wide range of competitors, including Capcom Mobile, DeNA, Gameloft, Glu Mobile, Gree, Rovio, and Zynga, and hundreds of
smaller companies. We expect new competitors to enter the market and existing competitors to allocate more resources to develop and market competing applications. As a result, we expect competition in the mobile entertainment market to intensify.
 Competition in Online Gaming Services  The online (i.e., Internet-based) games market is characterized by frequent product introductions, new and evolving business models and new platforms. We expect new competitors to enter the market
and existing competitors to allocate more resources toward developing online games services. As a result, we expect competition in the online game services market to intensify.  Our competitors in the online games market include major media companies, traditional video game publishing companies, and companies that specialize in online games including social networking game
companies. In the 
  7 


Table of Contents

MMO game business, our primary competitor is Activision Blizzard. Competing providers of other kinds of online games include Big Fish, Nexon, Tencent and Zynga and other providers of games on
social networking platforms such as Facebook.  Intellectual Property  Like other entertainment companies, our business is based on the creation, acquisition, exploitation and protection of intellectual property. Some of this intellectual property is in the form of software
code, patented technology, and other technology and trade secrets that we use to develop our games and to make them run properly. Other intellectual property is in the form of audio-visual elements that consumers can see, hear and interact with when
they are playing our games – we call this form of intellectual property “content.”  We develop products and services from
wholly-owned intellectual properties we create within our own studios and obtain through acquisitions. In addition, we obtain content and intellectual property through licenses and service agreements such as those with sports leagues and
players’ associations, movie studios and performing talent, authors and literary publishers, music labels, music publishers and musicians. These agreements typically limit our use of the licensed rights in products for specific time periods. In
addition, our products that play on game consoles and mobile devices, or other proprietary platforms may include technology that is owned by the device manufacturer or platform operator and licensed non-exclusively to us for use. We also license
technology from other providers. While we may have renewal rights for some licenses, our business and the justification for the development of many of our products is dependent on our ability to continue to obtain the intellectual property rights
from the owners of these rights on reasonable terms.  We actively engage in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual
property. We typically own the copyright to our software code and content, as well as the brand or title name trademark under which our products are marketed. We register copyrights and trademarks in the United States and other countries as
appropriate.  As with other forms of entertainment, our products are susceptible to unauthorized copying and piracy. We typically distribute
our PC products using copy protection technology, digital rights management technology or other technological protection measures to prevent piracy and the use of unauthorized copies of our products. In addition, console manufacturers typically
incorporate technological protections and other security measures in their consoles in an effort to prevent the use of unlicensed product. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect against unauthorized copying and
piracy, including monitoring online channels for distribution of pirated copies, and participating in various industry-wide enforcement initiatives, education programs and legislative activity around the world. 
Significant Relationships  Channel Partners  Sony. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into
with Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute disk-based software products and online content compatible with the PlayStation 3. Pursuant to these agreements, we engage Sony to supply disks for
our products.  Microsoft. Under the terms of agreements we have entered into with Microsoft Corporation and its affiliates, we are
authorized to develop and distribute DVD-based software products and online content compatible with the Xbox 360.  Nintendo. Under the
terms of agreements we have entered into with Nintendo Co., Ltd. and its affiliates, we are authorized to develop and distribute proprietary optical format disk products and online content compatible with the Wii. Pursuant to these agreements, we
engage Nintendo to supply Wii proprietary optical format disk products for our products. 
  8 


Table of Contents




   Under the agreements with each of
Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo, we are provided with the non-exclusive right to use, for a fixed term and in a designated territory, technology that is owned by the console manufacturer in order to publish our games on such platform. Our transactions
are made pursuant to individual purchase orders, which are accepted on a case-by case basis by Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo, as the case may be, and there are no minimum purchase requirements under the agreements. Many key commercial terms of our
relationships with Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo – such as manufacturing terms, delivery times and approval conditions – are determined unilaterally, and are subject to change by the console manufacturers. We pay the console manufacturers a
per-unit royalty for each unit manufactured and the console manufacturers pay us either a wholesale price or a percentage royalty on the revenue they derive from the distribution of our online content or services. 
The platform license agreements also require us to indemnify the manufacturers with respect to all loss, liability and expense resulting from any claim
against the manufacturer regarding our games and services, including any claims for patent, copyright or trademark infringement brought against the manufacturer. Each platform license may be terminated by the manufacturer if a breach or default by
us is not cured after we receive written notice from the manufacturer, or if we become insolvent. The manufacturers are not obligated to enter into platform license agreements with us for any future consoles, products or services. 
Apple, Google and Other Mobile Carriers. We have agreements to distribute our mobile applications through distribution partners worldwide,
including Apple and Google. Consumers download our applications on their mobile devices and if the application is not a “free-to-download” application, the distributor invoices them either a one-time or subscription fee. Our distribution
agreements establish the fees to be retained by the distributor for distributing our applications. These arrangements are typically terminable on short notice. The agreements generally do not obligate the distributors to market or distribute any of
our applications.  Facebook. We have an agreement with Facebook that revises certain of Facebook’s standard terms and conditions
as applied to our use of the Facebook platform; the changes to the Facebook standard terms include the use and collection of data, operation of our game applications, including payments and promotions, as well as other provisions dealing with the
rights and obligations of Facebook and us. This agreement also requires the use of Facebook Credits as the payment method for our games on the Facebook platform; for each purchase of Facebook Credits in any of our games on the Facebook platform, we
share 30 percent of the revenue. The agreement with Facebook expires in October 2015.  Retailers 
As our business becomes increasingly digital, our products and services are purchased over the Internet through Origin, our direct-to-consumer platform,
or through digital downloads from third party retailers or through mobile application storefronts.  In North America and Europe, our largest
markets, we sell packaged goods products to retailers, including mass market retailers (such as Wal-Mart), electronics specialty stores (such as Best Buy) or game software specialty stores (such as GameStop). 
Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 15 percent, 16 percent and 16 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 10 percent and 12 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. did not exceed 10 percent
of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. We sell our products to GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. pursuant to numerous and frequent individual purchase orders, which contain delivery and pricing terms. There are no
minimum sales or purchase commitments between us and either GameStop or Wal-Mart.  Content Licensors 
Many of our products are based on or incorporate content and trademarks owned by others. For example, our products include rights licensed from third
parties, including major movie studios, publishers, artists, authors, celebrities, traditional game and toy companies, athletes and the major sports leagues and players’ associations. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Seasonality  Our business is highly seasonal with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales
volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our
online-enabled packaged goods and digital content over an extended period of time. As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our
results can also vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates, cancellation or delay of a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our
revenue recognition policies.  Government Regulation  We are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data
collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world.  Employees  As of March 31, 2012, we had approximately 9,200 regular, full-time
employees, over 5,300 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large
measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 4 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union. 
Executive Officers  The following table
sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 25, 2012:   










 Name
  
Age
 
  
 Position

 John S. Riccitiello
  
 
52
  
  
Chief Executive Officer

 Kenneth A. Barker
  
 
45
  
  
Interim Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer

 Frank D. Gibeau
  
 
43
  
  
President, EA Labels

 Peter R. Moore
  
 
57
  
  
Chief Operating Officer

 Rajat Taneja
  
 
47
  
  
Chief Technology Officer

 Patrick Söderlund
  
 
38
  
  
Executive Vice President, EA Games Label

 Andrew Wilson
  
 
37
  
  
Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS

 Kristian Segerstråle
  
 
34
  
  
Executive Vice President, Digital

 Nancy Smith
  
 
59
  
  
Executive Vice President, Global Publishing

 Joel Linzner
  
 
60
  
  
Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs

 Gabrielle Toledano
  
 
45
  
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Talent Officer

 Stephen G. Bené
  
 
48
  
  
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

  10 


Table of Contents




   Mr. Riccitiello has served
as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Electronic Arts since April 2007. Prior to re-joining Electronic Arts, he was a co-founder and Managing Partner at Elevation Partners, a private equity fund. From October 1997 to April 2004, he served as
President and Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Riccitiello served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the worldwide bakery division at Sara Lee Corporation. Before joining Sara Lee, he
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and has also held executive management positions at Haagen-Dazs, PepsiCo, Inc. and The Clorox Company. He serves on the Board of Directors of the University of California
Berkeley Haas School of Business and on the Board of Councilors of the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts. Mr. Riccitiello holds a B.S. degree from the University of California, Berkeley. 
Mr. Barker has served as Interim Chief Financial Officer from February 2012 and as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since
April 2006. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate
Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a
B.A. degree in Accounting.  Mr. Gibeau was named President, EA Labels in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President,
EA Games Label from June 2007. From September 2005 until June 2007, he was Executive Vice President, General Manager, North America Publishing. Mr. Gibeau has held various positions since joining the company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau holds a
B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University.  Mr. Moore was named President,
Chief Operating Officer in August 2011. Prior to that time, he served as President, EA SPORTS, from September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined Electronic Arts, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and
was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Mr. Moore holds a bachelor’s degree from Keele
University, United Kingdom, and a Master’s degree from California State University, Long Beach.  Mr. Taneja has served as
Chief Technology Officer since October 2011. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Taneja spent 15 years with Microsoft Corporation where he most recently served as Vice President, Commerce Division in 2011 and General Manager and Corporate
Vice President, Online Services Division from 2007 to 2011. Mr. Taneja earned his M.B.A. from Washington State University and his Electrical Engineering degree from Jadavpur University.  Mr. Söderlund was named Executive Vice President, EA Games Label in August 2011. From December 2010 to July 2011 he served as Executive Vice President, Group General Manager –
FPS/Driving. Prior to that Mr. Söderlund held the position of Senior Vice President, EA Games Europe from September 2007 to December 2010 and the Chief Executive Officer of DICE until September 2007. Mr. Söderlund joined DICE in
2000. The studio was sold to Electronic Arts in October 2006.  Mr. Wilson was named Executive Vice President, EA SPORTS in August
2011. From March 2010 to August 2011, he served as Senior Vice President, EA SPORTS. Prior to that, Mr. Wilson held the position of Senior Vice President Global Online from September 2009 to March 2010 and Vice President, EA SPORTS from June
2008 to September 2009. Mr. Wilson has held various positions within the company since joining the Electronic Arts in May 2000. 
Mr. Segerstråle has served as Executive Vice President, Digital since January 2012. Prior to his current role,
Mr. Segerstråle was Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer of Playfish Limited from 2007 until November 2009 when the company was acquired by Electronic Arts. Thereafter, Mr. Segerstråle took the role of General Manager of
Electronic Arts’ Playfish business unit. Mr. Segerstråle served on the board of LOVEFiLM, a leading European digital film subscription service until its acquisition by Amazon in 2011. Mr. Segerstråle holds a B.A. degree in
Economics from Cambridge University and a M.A. degree in Economics from The London School of Economics. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Ms. Smith was named Executive Vice President, Global Publishing in February
2010. From November 2008 until February 2010, Ms. Smith served Electronic Arts in a variety of capacities. From September 2005 until November 2008, she led The Sims Label, first as Executive Vice President and General Manager of The
Sims Franchise, and then as President of The Sims Label. Ms. Smith has held various positions since joining the company in 1984. Ms. Smith holds a B.S. degree in management and organizational behavior from the University of San
Francisco.  Mr. Linzner has served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. Prior to joining
Electronic Arts in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to Electronic Arts and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California,
Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts.
 Ms. Toledano was named Executive Vice President and Chief Talent Officer in October 2011. From April 2007 until October 2011,
Ms. Toledano served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. From February 2006 until March 2007, Ms. Toledano held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. Ms. Toledano serves on the
Board of Directors of the Society for Human Resource Management and Big City Mountaineers. Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University. 
Mr. Bené has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. Mr. Bené joined
EA in March 1995. Mr. Bené earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Bené is a member of the Bar of the State of California. 
Investor Information  Our annual reports
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge
on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://ir.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Except as expressly set
forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report. 
  12 


Table of Contents




    


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  Our
business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could
differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we
currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance.  Our business is intensely competitive and
“hit” driven. If we do not deliver “hit” products and services, or if consumers prefer our competitors’ products or services over our own, our operating results could suffer. 
Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge throughout the world. Our competitors range from large
established companies to emerging start-ups. In our industry, though many new products and services are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit” titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue for the
industry. We have significantly reduced the number of games that we develop, publish and distribute: in fiscal year 2011, we published 36 primary packaged goods titles, and in fiscal year 2012, we published 22 primary packaged goods titles,
including our MMO role-playing game Star Wars: The Old Republic. In fiscal year 2013, we expect to release 14 primary packaged goods titles and plan to build additional online features, content and services around each of these titles.
Publishing fewer titles means that we concentrate more of our development spending on each title, and driving “hit” titles often requires large marketing budgets and media spend. The underperformance of a title may have a large adverse
impact on our financial results. Also, hit products or services offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below
expectations.  In addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low
barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. We expect competition in these markets to intensify. If our competitors develop and market more successful products or services, offer competitive
products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering a better value proposition (such as free-to-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and
well-received products and services, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline.  Our operating results will be adversely
affected if we do not consistently meet our product development schedules or if key events or sports seasons that we tie our product release schedules to are delayed or cancelled.  Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the December quarter. If we miss these key selling periods for any
reason, including product delays, product cancellations, or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a
number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams required by the increasing complexity of our products and the platforms for which they are developed,
and the need to fine-tune our products prior to their release. We have experienced development delays for our products in the past, which caused us to push back or cancel release dates. We also seek to release certain products in conjunction with
specific events, such as the beginning of a sports season or major sporting event, or the release of a related movie. If a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also
suffer disproportionately. In the future, any failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules would likely result in a delay of revenue and/or possibly a significant shortfall in our revenue, increase our development expense, harm our
profitability, and cause our operating results to be materially different than anticipated. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Our adoption of new business models could fail to produce our desired financial returns. 
We are actively seeking to monetize game properties through a variety of new platforms and business models, including online distribution of full games
and additional content, free-to-play games supported by advertising and/or micro-transactions on social networking services and subscription services such as our MMO role-playing game Star Wars: The Old Republic. Forecasting our revenues and
profitability for these new business models is inherently uncertain and volatile. Our actual revenues and profits for these businesses may be significantly greater or less than our forecasts. Additionally, these new business models could fail for
one or more of our titles, resulting in the loss of our investment in the development and infrastructure needed to support these new business models, and the opportunity cost of diverting management and financial resources away from more successful
businesses.  Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to anticipate or successfully develop games for new platforms and
services, adopt new distribution technologies or methods, or implement new technologies in our games, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer.  Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services
competitive in the market. We have invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies, technologies, products, and services. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, and no assurance can be given that the
technology we choose to adopt and the platforms, products and services that we pursue will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition, and operating results. 
Our product development usually starts with particular platforms and distribution methods in mind, and a range of technical development goals that we
hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to our
competitors’, less appealing to consumers, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our products and services, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved,
which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our development expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt to accelerate our development of new technologies, either to preserve our
product or service launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. We may also miss opportunities to adopt technology, or develop products and services for new platforms or services that become
popular with consumers, which could adversely affect our revenues. It may take significant time and resources to shift our focus to such technologies or platforms, putting us at a competitive disadvantage. 
If we release defective products or services, our operating results could suffer.  Products and services such as ours are extremely complex software programs, and are difficult to develop and distribute. We have quality controls in place to detect defects in our products and services
before they are released. Nonetheless, these quality controls are subject to human error, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. Therefore, these quality controls and preventative measures may not be effective in detecting defects in our
products and services before they have been released into the marketplace. In such an event, we could be required to or may find it necessary to voluntarily recall a product or suspend the availability of the product or service, which could
significantly harm our business and operating results.  We may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to
maintain adequate operational services, security and supporting infrastructure. As we increase our online products and services, most
recently with the launch of our online commerce and content delivery system Origin, and the launch of Star Wars: The Old Republic, we expect to continue to invest in technology services, hardware and software - including data centers, network
services, storage and database technologies - to support existing services and to introduce new products and services including websites, 
  14 


Table of Contents




   
ecommerce capabilities, online game communities and online game play services. Launching high profile games and services, and creating the appropriate support for online business initiatives is
expensive and complex, and our execution could result in inefficiencies or operational failures, and increased vulnerability to cyber attacks, which, in turn, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience. Cyber attacks
could include denial-of-service attacks impacting service availability and reliability; the exploitation of software vulnerabilities in Internet facing applications; social engineering of system administrators (tricking company employees into
releasing control of their systems to a hacker); the introduction of malware into our systems with a view to steal confidential or proprietary data; or attempts to hijack consumer account information. Cyber attacks of increasing sophistication may
be difficult to detect and could result in the theft of our intellectual property and consumer data, including personally identifiable information. Operational failures or successful cyber attacks could result in damage to our reputation and loss of
current and potential users, subscribers, advertisers, and other business partners which could harm our business. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by outages and disruptions in the online platforms of our key business partners, who offer
our products and services.  Our business could be adversely affected if our consumer protection and data privacy practices are not seen as
adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data.  There are several inherent risks
to engaging in business online and directly with end consumers of our products and services. As we conduct more transactions online directly with consumers, we may be the victim of fraudulent transactions, including credit card fraud, which presents
a risk to our revenues and potentially disrupts service to our consumers. In addition, we are collecting and storing more consumer information, including personal information and credit card information. We take measures to protect our consumer data
from unauthorized access or disclosure. It is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. A security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer
account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect
personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business
partners for our online offerings that require the collection of consumer data. Our key business partners also face these same risks and any security breaches of their system could adversely impact our ability to offer our products and services
through their platforms, resulting in a loss of meaningful revenues. In addition, the rate of privacy law-making is accelerating globally and interpretation and application of consumer protection and data privacy laws in the United States, Europe
and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. As business practices are being challenged by regulators, private litigants, and consumer protection agencies around the world, it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and
applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data and/or consumer protection practices. If so, this could result in increased litigation, government or court imposed fines, judgments or orders requiring that we change our practices, which could
have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 
Our business is subject to increasing regulation and the adoption of proposed legislation we oppose could negatively impact our business.
 Legislation is continually being introduced in the United States and other countries to mandate rating requirements or set other
restrictions on the advertisement or distribution of entertainment software based on content. In the United States, most courts, including the United States Supreme Court, that have ruled on such legislation have ruled in a manner favorable to the
interactive entertainment industry. Some foreign countries have adopted ratings regulations and certain countries allow government censorship of entertainment software products. Adoption of government ratings system or restrictions on distribution
of entertainment software based on content could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers and compliance with new and possibly inconsistent regulations for different territories could be costly or delay the
release of our products. 
  15 


Table of Contents
As we increase the online delivery of our products and services, we are subject to a number of foreign and
domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or
are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world. The costs of compliance with these laws may increase in the future as a result of changes in interpretation. Furthermore, any failure on our part to comply with these laws or
the application of these laws in an unanticipated manner may harm our business.  If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel,
we will be unable to effectively conduct our business.  The market for technical, creative, marketing and other personnel essential to the
development and marketing of our products and management of our businesses is extremely competitive. Our leading position within the interactive entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting of executives and key creative talent. If
we cannot successfully recruit and retain the employees we need, or replace key employees following their departure, our ability to develop and manage our business will be impaired.  If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 
Our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print
advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. Our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part upon the success of these programs. If the marketing for our products and services fail to resonate with
our customers, particularly during the critical holiday season or during other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating
results.  The majority of our sales are made to a relatively small number of key customers. If these customers reduce their purchases of
our products or become unable to pay for them, our business could be harmed.  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012,
approximately 60 percent of our North America sales were made to our top ten customers. In Europe, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 40 percent of our sales in that territory during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.
Worldwide, we had direct sales to one customer, GameStop Corp., which represented approximately 15 percent of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Though our products are available to consumers through a variety of
retailers and directly through us, the concentration of our sales in one, or a few, large customers could lead to a short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of these customers significantly reduced their purchases or ceased to carry our
products, and could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large customers became unable to pay for our products or declared bankruptcy. Additionally, our receivables from these large customers increase significantly in
the December quarter as they make purchases in anticipation of the holiday selling season. Also, having such a large portion of our total net revenue concentrated in a few customers could reduce our negotiating leverage with these customers. If one
or more of our key customers experience deterioration in their business, or become unable to obtain sufficient financing to maintain their operations, our business could be harmed.  Our business is dependent on the success and availability of video game hardware systems manufactured by third parties, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products and services
for these systems.  Our products and services are played on video game hardware systems (which we also refer to as “platforms”)
manufactured by third parties, such as Sony’s PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft’s Xbox 360 and Nintendo’s Wii. The success of our business is driven in part by the commercial success and adequate supply of these video game hardware systems,
our ability to accurately predict which systems will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products and services for these systems. We must make product

  16 


Table of Contents




   
development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of anticipated product ship dates. A platform for which we are developing products and services may not succeed or may have
a shorter life cycle than anticipated. If consumer demand for the systems for which we are developing products and services is lower than our expectations, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in
developing our products and services, and our financial performance will be harmed. Alternatively, a system for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss out on
meaningful revenue opportunities.  Our industry is cyclical, driven by the periodic introduction of new video game hardware systems. As we
transition to new console platforms, our operating results may be more volatile.  Video game hardware systems have historically had a life
cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsoft’s launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched the PLAYSTATION 3 and
the Wii, respectively. We have seen a decline in the market for video game systems overall driven by reduced demand for standard definition systems. This decline in sales of video game systems has caused a corresponding decline in the sales of
packaged goods video game software.  We anticipate the transition to new console platforms in the next few years. During this transition, we
will incur costs to develop and market products and services for current-generation video game platforms, as well as developing products and services for next-generation platforms. For fiscal year 2013, we plan to invest $80 million toward
next-generation platforms. The hardware manufacturers are not required to enter into agreements with us for next-generation video game platforms and may choose to impose more restrictive terms or adopt very different business models and fee
structures for the next-generation platforms. As a result, our operating results during this transitional period may be more volatile and difficult to predict.  The video game hardware manufacturers are among our chief competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and/or access to our video game products and services. If they do not approve our
products and services, we will not be able to make the products and services available to our customers.  Our agreements with hardware
licensors (such as Sony for the PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft for the Xbox 360, and Nintendo for the Wii) typically give significant control to the hardware licensor over the approval, manufacturing and distribution of our products and services, which
could, in certain circumstances, leave us unable to get our products and services approved, manufactured and provided to customers. For our digital products and services delivered direct to the consumers via Sony’s PlayStation Network and
Microsoft’s Xbox LIVE Marketplace, the hardware licensor controls the distribution of these titles. These hardware licensors are also among our chief competitors. Generally, control of the approval and manufacturing process by the hardware
licensors increases both our manufacturing lead times and costs as compared to those we can achieve independently. While we believe that our relationships with our hardware licensors are currently good, the potential for these licensors to delay or
refuse to approve our products and services exists. Such occurrences would harm our business and our financial performance.  We also require
technical and operational support and the consent of Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo in order to include online capabilities in our products and services for their respective platforms and to digitally distribute our products and services through their
proprietary networks. As online capabilities for video game systems become more significant, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo could restrict the manner in which we provide online capabilities for our products and services and demand more restrictive
terms for the next-generation console platforms. They may also restrict the number of products and services that we may distribute digitally on their networks. If Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo refuse to approve our products and services with online
capabilities, restrict our digital offerings on their proprietary networks, or significantly impact the financial terms on which these services are offered to our customers, our business could be harmed. 
  17 


Table of Contents
The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to provide
games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. If one or more of these manufacturers change their fee structure, our profitability will be materially impacted. 
In order to provide products and service for a video game system such as the Xbox 360, PLAYSTATION 3 or Wii, we must take a license from Microsoft, Sony
and Nintendo, respectively, which give these companies the opportunity to set the fee structure that we must pay in order to provide games for that platform. Similarly, these companies have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures, or
adopt different fee structures for online purchases of games, online gameplay and other new features for their consoles. The control that hardware manufacturers have over the fee structures for their platforms and online access could adversely
impact our costs, profitability and margins. Because providing products for video game systems is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures would significantly harm our ability to generate profits. 
Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our investors and other negative
consequences.  We expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into other strategic transactions including (1) acquisitions of
companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, (2) minority investments in strategic partners, and (3) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses (e.g., online and mobile publishing platforms) as part
of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we do not realize a satisfactory return on our investment, that we acquire
unknown liabilities, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of business systems and technologies, the integration and retention of new employees, or in the maintenance of key business and customer relationships of the businesses we
acquire, or diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition.  Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent
liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses, such as stock-based compensation. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial
condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or
evaluate future acquisitions or investments.  From time to time we may become involved in other legal proceedings, which could adversely
affect us.  We are currently, and from time to time in the future may become, subject to legal proceedings, claims, litigation and
government investigations or inquiries, which could be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. In addition, the outcome of any legal proceedings, claims, litigation, investigations or inquiries may be difficult to predict
and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition.  If we are unable to maintain or
acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, or to maintain or acquire the rights to publish or distribute games developed by others, we will sell fewer hit titles and our revenue, profitability and cash flows will
decline. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and reduce our profitability.  Many of our products are based on or
incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, our EA SPORTS products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players’ associations. Similarly, many of our other key franchises, such as Star Wars: The Old
Republic, are based on film and literary licenses and our Hasbro products are based on a license for certain of Hasbro’s toy and game properties. In addition, some of our successful products in fiscal year 2011, Bulletstorm,
Crysis 2, and Portal 2 in fiscal year 2012, are products for which we acquired publishing rights through a license from the product’s creator/owner. Competition for these licenses and rights is intense. If we are unable to
maintain these licenses and rights or obtain additional licenses 
  18 


Table of Contents




   
or rights with significant commercial value, our revenues, profitability and cash flows will decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees and
royalties that we must pay to licensors and developers, which could significantly increase our costs and reduce our profitability.  Our
business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results.  Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include:
the popularity, price and timing of our games and the platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of
entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted.  We
may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.  From time to time,
third parties may assert claims against us relating to patents, copyrights, trademarks, personal publicity rights, or other intellectual property rights to technologies, products or delivery/payment methods that are important to our business.
Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still may claim infringement. For example, we may be subject to intellectual
property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. In addition, many of our products are highly realistic and feature
materials that are based on real world examples, which may be the subject of intellectual property infringement claims of others. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement
claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such claims or litigations could require us to pay damages and other costs, stop selling the affected products, redesign those products to avoid infringement, or
obtain a license, all of which could be costly and harm our business. In addition, many patents have been issued that may apply to potential new modes of delivering, playing or monetizing game software products and services, such as those that we
produce or would like to offer in the future. We may discover that future opportunities to provide new and innovative modes of game play and game delivery to consumers may be precluded by existing patents that we are unable to license on reasonable
terms.  Our products are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying. 
We take measures to protect our pre-release software and other confidential information from unauthorized access. A security breach that results in the
disclosure of pre-release software or other confidential assets could lead or contribute to piracy of our games or otherwise compromise our product plans.  Further, entertainment software piracy is a persistent problem in our industry. The growth in peer-to-peer networks and other channels to download pirated copies of our products, the increasing
availability of broadband access to the Internet and the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures used with our products all have contributed to an expansion in piracy. Though we take technical steps to make the
unauthorized copying of our products more difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our games are played, these efforts may not be successful in controlling the piracy of our products. 
While legal protections exist to combat piracy and other forms of unauthorized copying, preventing and curbing infringement through enforcement of our
intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time consuming, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Further, the scope of the legal protection of copyright and prohibitions against the
circumvention of technological protection measures to protect copyrighted works are often under scrutiny by courts and governing bodies. The repeal or weakening of laws intended to combat piracy, protect intellectual property and prohibit the
circumvention of technological protection measures could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect against piracy. These factors could have a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business and
operating results.  Declines in consumer spending resulting from adverse changes in the economy have in the past negatively impacted our
business. Further economic distress may result in a decrease in demand for our products, particularly during key product launch windows, which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In particular,
we derive a substantial proportion of our revenues in Europe. Continued weakness and instability in European markets could result in a loss of consumer confidence in the economy and a decrease in discretionary spending, resulting in a material
adverse impact on our operating results. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and
decrease the availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, if we experience further
deterioration in our market capitalization or our financial performance, we could be required to recognize significant impairment charges in future periods.  Our business is subject to currency fluctuations.  International sales are a fundamental
part of our business. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, international net revenue comprised 52 percent of our total net revenue. We expect international sales to continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue.
Such sales may be subject to unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers. Additionally, foreign sales are primarily made in local currencies, which may fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. In addition, our foreign investments and
our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to currency fluctuations. We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate some foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and
liabilities (primarily certain intercompany receivables and payables) to a limited extent and foreign currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions (primarily related to a portion of the revenue and expenses denominated
in foreign currency generated by our operational subsidiaries). However, these activities are limited in the protection they provide us from foreign currency fluctuations and can themselves result in losses. In the past, the disruption in the global
financial markets has impacted many of the financial institutions with which we do business, and we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to such institutions with whom we enter into hedging transactions. A sustained decline in the financial
stability of financial institutions as a result of the disruption in the financial markets could negatively impact our treasury operations, including our ability to secure credit-worthy counterparties for our foreign currency hedging programs.
Accordingly, our results of operations, including our reported net revenue, operating expenses and net income, and financial condition can be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, especially the Euro, British pound
sterling and Canadian dollar. In particular, because we derive a substantial proportion of our revenues from sales in Europe, the uncertainty regarding the ability of certain European countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations
and related European financial restructuring efforts may cause fluctuations in the value of the Euro that could adversely affect our revenue growth and profit margins on sales outside of the United States, and thus impact our operating results
(expressed in US dollars) in future periods. Further, the continued sovereign debt crisis in Europe could lead to increased counterparty risk with respect to financial institutions and other business partners, who are particularly vulnerable to the
instability in certain European markets.  Volatility in the capital markets may adversely impact the value of our investments and could
cause us to recognize significant impairment charges in our operating results.  Our portfolio of short-term investments and marketable
equity securities is subject to volatility in the capital markets and to national and international economic conditions. In particular, our international investments can be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency and our short-term investments
are susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. These investments are also impacted by declines in value attributable to the credit-worthiness of the issuer. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments or
marketable equity securities to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, strategic investments or 
  20 


Table of Contents




   
business acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we were to liquidate these short-term investments at a time when they were worth less than what we had originally purchased them for, or if the
obligor were unable to pay the full amount at maturity, we could incur a significant loss. Similarly, we hold marketable equity securities, which have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by price and trading volume volatility in the
public stock markets. We could be required to recognize impairment charges on the securities held by us and/or we may realize losses on the sale of these securities, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.  Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. While our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “Notes”) are outstanding, we will have debt service obligations on the Notes of approximately $5 million per year. We intend to
fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our operations and from our existing cash and investments. We may enter into other financial instruments in the future.  Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences. For example, it could:   


 
•
 
 increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 limit our ability to obtain additional financing;   


 
•
 
 require the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness,
thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund our growth strategy, working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 
 


 
•
 
 limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and 
 


 
•
 
 place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors with less debt. 
Further, the Notes are subject to a net share settlement feature, which means that we will satisfy our conversion obligation to holders by paying cash in
settlement of the lesser of the principal amount and the conversion value of the Notes and by delivering shares of our common stock in settlement of any and all conversion obligations in excess of the principal amount. In addition, holders of the
Notes will have the right to require us to purchase their Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a purchase price equal to 100 percent of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. 
We may not have the enough available cash or be able to arrange for financing to pay such principal amount at the time we are required to make purchases
of the Notes or convert the Notes. In addition, we may be required to use funds that are domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions in order to make the cash payments upon any purchase or conversion of the Notes. If we were to choose to use such funds,
we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided.  In addition, our ability to purchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to
purchase the Notes at a time when the purchase is required by the indenture or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or a fundamental
change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay
the indebtedness and purchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes.  The hedge transactions and warrant transactions
entered into in connection with the Notes may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock. In connection with the offering of the
Notes, we entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the “Convertible Note Hedge”) with certain counterparties (“Options Counterparties”) to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common
stock upon conversion of the Notes. The Convertible Note Hedge covers, subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the Notes, the number of 
  21 


Table of Contents

shares of common stock underlying the Notes. We also entered into separate, privately-negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third parties
warrants (the “Warrants”) with the Option Counterparties relating to the same number of shares of our common stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.  In connection with establishing their hedge position with respect to the Convertible Note Hedge and the Warrants, the Option Counterparties and/or their affiliates: 
 


 
•
 
 may have entered into various cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock and/or purchased shares of our
common stock concurrently with, or shortly following, the pricing of the Notes; and   


 
•
 
 may unwind any such cash-settled over-the-counter derivative transactions and purchase shares of our common stock in open market transactions,
including any observation period related to the conversion of the Notes.  The effect, if any, of these activities, including
the direction or magnitude, on the market price of our common stock will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could, however, adversely affect the market price
of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes.  In addition, the Option Counterparties are financial institutions, and we will be
subject to the risk that one or more of the Option Counterparties might default under the Convertible Note Hedge. Our exposure to the credit risk of the Option Counterparties will not be secured by any collateral. If any of the Option Counterparties
becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under the Convertible Note Hedge with such option counterparty. Our exposure will depend on many
factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock.  Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.  We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary
course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.  We are also required
to estimate what our tax obligations will be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process and applicable laws are inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. The tax
laws’ treatment of software and Internet-based transactions is particularly uncertain and in some cases currently applicable tax laws are ill-suited to address these kinds of transactions. Apart from an adverse resolution of these
uncertainties, our effective tax rate also could be adversely affected by our profit levels, by changes in our business or changes in our structure resulting from the reorganization of our business and operating structure, changes in the mix of
earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws (in the United States or foreign jurisdictions), or changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, as well as
other factors. Beginning in fiscal year 2009, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. We expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or
until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. Further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could
adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected.  We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated pre-tax income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater
influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. 
  22 


Table of Contents




   We are also required to pay taxes
other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these
non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. 
Furthermore, as we expand our international operations, adopt new products and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating structure or
undertake intercompany transactions in light of changing tax laws, expiring rulings, acquisitions and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements, our tax expense could increase. 
Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future
accounting standards to our business as it evolves.  Our reported financial results are impacted by the accounting standards promulgated
by the SEC and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. For example, as we have recently issued Notes which we account for under ASC 470-20, Debt with
Conversion and Other Options, we are required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. Consequently, we
report lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 requires interest expense to include both the current period’s amortization of the debt discount and the instrument’s coupon interest, which could adversely affect our
reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method,
with respect to the calculation of diluted earnings per share when considering our Notes that may be settled entirely or partly in cash. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the
Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected.  In addition, accounting standards affecting software revenue
recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. We recognize all of the revenue from bundled sales (i.e., packaged goods video games that include updates on a
when-and-if-available basis and an online service component) on a deferred basis over an estimated online service period, which we generally estimate to be six months beginning in the month after delivery. As we increase our downloadable content and
add new features to our online service, our estimate of the online service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenue over a longer period of time.  As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue
and taxes, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows.  We are implementing
a new integrated financial information system to be used throughout our worldwide organization. If this implementation is not completed in a successful and timely manner or if the new system fails to perform as expected, our ability to accurately
process, prepare and analyze important financial data could be impeded and our business operations may be disrupted.  As part of our
effort to improve efficiencies throughout our worldwide organization, we are implementing a new integrated financial information system. This implementation is expected to be completed by the first quarter of the fiscal year 2013. This system will
integrate our order management, product shipment, cash management and financial accounting processes, among others. The successful conversion from our current multiple financial information systems to this new integrated financial information system
entails a number of risks due to the complexity of the conversion and implementation process. Such risks include verifying the accuracy of the business data and information prior to conversion, the actual conversion of that data and information to
the new system and then using that business data and information in the new system after the conversion. While testing these new systems and processes and training of employees are done in advance of implementation, there are

  23 


Table of Contents

inherent limitations in our ability to simulate a full-scale operating environment in advance of implementation. There can be no assurance that the conversion to, and the implementation of, the
new financial information system will not impede our ability to accurately and timely process, prepare and analyze the financial data we use in making operating decisions and which form the basis of the financial information we include in the
periodic reports we file with the SEC. In addition, a number of important operational functions, including receiving product orders, product shipments and inventory maintenance, among others, will be reliant on the new system and therefore, any
problems with the implementation or other system problems may result in a disruption to our business operations.  We rely on business
partners in many areas of our business and our business may be harmed if they are unable to honor their obligations to us.  We rely on
various business partners, including third-party service providers, vendors, licensing partners, development partners, and licensees, among others, in many areas of our business. In many cases, these third parties are given access to sensitive and
proprietary information in order to provide services and support to our teams. These third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. The failure of these third parties to provide adequate services and
technologies, or the failure of the third parties to adequately maintain or update their services and technologies, could result in a disruption to our business operations. Further, disruptions in the financial markets and economic downturns may
adversely affect our business partners and they may not be able to continue honoring their obligations to us. Some of our business partners are highly-leveraged or small businesses that may be particularly vulnerable. Alternative arrangements and
services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner or vendor. If we lose one or more significant business partners, our business could be
harmed.  Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. 
The market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations
may be due to factors specific to us (including those discussed in the risk factors above, as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material), to changes in securities analysts’ earnings estimates or
ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts’ and investors’ expectations, to factors affecting the entertainment, computer, software, Internet, media or electronics industries, to our
ability to successfully integrate any acquisitions we may make, or to national or international economic conditions. In particular, economic downturns may contribute to the public stock markets experiencing extreme price and trading volume
volatility. These broad market fluctuations have and could continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 
  24 


Table of Contents




    


Item 1B:
Unresolved Staff Comments  None.   


Item 2:
Properties  We own
our 660,000-square-foot Redwood Shores headquarters facilities located in Redwood City, California which includes a product development studio and administrative and sales functions. We also own a 418,000-square-foot product development studio
facility in Burnaby, Canada. In addition to the properties we own, we lease approximately 1.2 million square feet in North America and 0.8 million square feet in Europe and Asia at various research and development, sales and administration
and distribution facilities, including leases for our multi-function facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, our research and development studios in Los Angeles, California and Orlando, Florida, and our distribution center in Louisville,
Kentucky.  While we continually evaluate our facility requirements, we believe that suitable additional or substitute space will be available
as needed to accommodate our future needs. For information regarding our lease commitments, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 in this report. 
We do not identify or allocate our assets by operating segment. For information on long-lived assets by geography, see Note 18 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 in this report.   


Item 3:
Legal Proceedings 
In June 2008, Geoffrey Pecover filed an antitrust class action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that
EA obtained an illegal monopoly in a discreet antitrust market that consists of “league-branded football simulation video games” by bidding for, and winning, exclusive licenses with the NFL, Collegiate Licensing Company and Arena Football
League. In December 20, 2010, the district court granted the plaintiffs’ request to certify a class of plaintiffs consisting of all consumers who purchased EA’s Madden NFL, NCAA Football or Arena Football video games after 2005. The
court has set a trial date for October 2012. The complaint seeks compensatory damages. The parties initiated settlement negotiations in May 2012 and subsequently reached a non-binding settlement in principle; however, no settlement agreement has
been approved by the court as of the date of this filing. As a result, we recognized a $27 million accrual in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 associated with the potential settlement.  We are also subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition of such claims and litigation,
individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Item 8 in this report.   


Item 4:
Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
  25 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5:
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 Market Information  Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “EA”. Our symbol changed from “ERTS” to “EA” on December 20, 2011. The following table
sets forth the quarterly high and low sales price per share of our common stock from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2012.   












 
  
Prices
 

 
  
    High    
 
  
    Low    
 

 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2011:
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
20.24
  
  
$
14.06
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
17.53
  
  
 
14.32
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
18.06
  
  
 
14.67
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
20.20
  
  
 
14.80
  





 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2012:
  



  




 First Quarter
  
$
24.42
  
  
$
19.69
  

 Second Quarter
  
 
25.05
  
  
 
17.62
  

 Third Quarter
  
 
25.20
  
  
 
19.76
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
 
21.30
  
  
 
16.34
  
 Holders  There were approximately 1,544 holders of record of our common stock as of May 22, 2012, and the closing price of our common stock was $14.26 per share as reported by the NASDAQ Global
Select Market. In addition, we believe that a significant number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares in street name. 
Dividends  We have not paid any
cash dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future.  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 Stock Repurchase Program. In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to
$600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. We completed our program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market since the commencement of the program, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock
trading plans. During the fiscal year 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 25 million shares of our common stock for approximately $471 million, net of commissions.  The following table summarizes the number of shares repurchased in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012: 
 




















 Period
  
Total Numberof SharesPurchased
 
  
Average PricePaid per Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of 
PubliclyAnnouncedProgram
 
  
Maximum DollarValue of Sharesthat May Yet BePurchased Underthe
Program(in millions)
 

 January 1-31, 2012
  
 
1,005,600
  
  
$
18.92
  
  
 
1,005,600
  
  
$
293
  

 February 1-29, 2012
  
 
2,405,600
  
  
 
17.78
  
  
 
2,405,600
  
  
 
250
  

 March 1-31, 2012
  
 
10,642,139
  
  
 
16.86
  
  
 
10,642,139
  
  
 
71
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  





  
 
14,053,339
  
  
 
17.17
  
  
 
14,053,339
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




  26 


Table of Contents




   Stock Performance Graph
 The following information shall not be deemed to be “filed” with the SEC nor shall this information be incorporated by
reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing. 
The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns during the period from March 31, 2007 through March 31, 2012, for
our common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index, the S&P 500 Index (to which EA was added in July 2002) and the RDG Technology Composite Index, each of which assumes an initial value of $100. Each measurement point is as of the end of each fiscal
year ended March 31. The performance of our stock depicted in the following graph is not necessarily indicative of the future performance of our stock.  COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN*  Among Electronic Arts Inc.,
the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index,  and the RDG Technology Composite Index 
  

  


*
Based on $100 invested on March 31, 2007 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. 
 




























 
  
March 31,
 

 
  
    2007    
 
  
    2008    
 
  
    2009    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2012    
 

 Electronic Arts Inc.
  
$
100
  
  
$
99
  
  
$
36
  
  
$
37
  
  
$
39
  
  
$
33
  

 S&P 500 Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
95
  
  
 
59
  
  
 
88
  
  
 
102
  
  
 
110
  

 NASDAQ Composite Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
64
  
  
 
99
  
  
 
119
  
  
 
129
  

 RDG Technology Composite Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
107
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
143
  

  27 


Table of Contents


Item 6:
Selected Financial Data  ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  SELECTED FIVE-YEAR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 (In millions, except per share data)   
























 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    
2010(a)    
 
 
    2009    
 
 
    2008    
 

 Net revenue
  
$
4,143
  
 
$
3,589
  
 
$
3,654
  
 
$
4,212
  
 
$
3,665
  

 Cost of revenue
  
 
1,598
  
 
 
1,499
  
 
 
1,866
  
 
 
2,127
  
 
 
1,805
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
2,545
  
 
 
2,090
  
 
 
1,788
  
 
 
2,085
  
 
 
1,860
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Research and development
  
 
1,212
  
 
 
1,153
  
 
 
1,229
  
 
 
1,359
  
 
 
1,145
  

 Marketing and sales
  
 
853
  
 
 
747
  
 
 
730
  
 
 
691
  
 
 
588
  

 General and administrative
  
 
375
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
332
  
 
 
339
  

 Acquisition-related contingent consideration
  
 
11
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Amortization of intangibles
  
 
43
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
34
  

 Restructuring and other charges
  
 
16
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
103
  

 Goodwill impairment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
368
  
 
 
—
  

 Certain abandoned acquisition-related costs
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
—
  

 Acquired in-process technology
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
138
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating expenses
  
 
2,510
  
 
 
2,402
  
 
 
2,474
  
 
 
2,912
  
 
 
2,347
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
35
  
 
 
(312
) 
 
 
(686
) 
 
 
(827
) 
 
 
(487
) 

 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
(118
) 

 Interest and other income (expense), net
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
98
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
18
  
 
 
(279
) 
 
 
(706
) 
 
 
(855
) 
 
 
(507
) 

 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes
  
 
(58
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
233
  
 
 
(53
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
76
  
 
$
(276
) 
 
$
(677
) 
 
$
(1,088
) 
 
$
(454
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share:
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.84
) 
 
$
(2.08
) 
 
$
(3.40
) 
 
$
(1.45
) 

 Diluted
  
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.84
) 
 
$
(2.08
) 
 
$
(3.40
) 
 
$
(1.45
) 

 Number of shares used in computation:
  



 



 



 



 




 Basic
  
 
331
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
314
  

 Diluted
  
 
336
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
325
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
314
  




 
  
As of March 31,
 

 BALANCE SHEETS DATA
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010(a)
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
1,293
  
 
$
1,579
  
 
$
1,273
  
 
$
1,621
  
 
$
1,553
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
437
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
432
  
 
 
534
  
 
 
734
  

 Marketable equity securities
  
 
119
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
291
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
729
  

 Working capital
  
 
489
  
 
 
1,031
  
 
 
1,011
  
 
 
1,984
  
 
 
2,626
  

 Total assets
  
 
5,491
  
 
 
4,928
  
 
 
4,646
  
 
 
4,678
  
 
 
6,059
  

 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2016, net
  
 
539
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
374
  
 
 
363
  
 
 
343
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
421
  

 Total liabilities
  
 
3,033
  
 
 
2,364
  
 
 
1,917
  
 
 
1,544
  
 
 
1,720
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
2,458
  
 
 
2,564
  
 
 
2,729
  
 
 
3,134
  
 
 
4,339
  
  


(a) 
 Beginning in fiscal 2010, due to the adoption of certain contemporaneous amendments issued by the FASB to Accounting Standard Codification
(“ASC”) 805, Business Combinations, we began to accrue acquisition-related contingent consideration and capitalize acquired in-process technology. Prior to the adoption of these amendments, we accrued acquisition-related contingent
consideration only when the contingency was settled as part of the purchase price of the business combination and expensed acquired in-process technology immediately after acquisition. 
  28 


Table of Contents




    


Item 7:
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
OVERVIEW  The following overview
is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including in
the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” above, the remainder of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related
Notes.  About Electronic Arts  We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3,
Microsoft Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), and the Internet. Our ability to
publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. We have generated substantial growth in new
business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless platform. Some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual
property (e.g., Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies), and some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL, and Star Wars: The Old
Republic). Our goal is to turn our core intellectual properties into year-round businesses available on a range of platforms. Our products and services may be purchased through physical and online retailers, platform providers such as console
manufacturers and mobile carriers via digital downloads, as well as directly through our own distribution platform, including online portals such as Origin and Play4Free.  Financial Results  Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012
was $4,143 million, up $554 million as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. At March 31, 2012, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $43 million as
compared to March 31, 2011, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. At March 31, 2011, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital
content increased by $239 million as compared to March 31, 2010, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue would
have increased by approximately $358 million during fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011. Net revenue for fiscal year 2012 was driven by FIFA 12, Battlefield 3 and Madden NFL 12. 
Net income for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $76 million as compared to a net loss of $276 million for the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2011. Diluted earnings per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 was $0.23 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.84 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. Net income increased for fiscal year 2012 as
compared to fiscal year 2011 primarily as a result of (1) a $455 million increase in gross profit due to a decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content and a greater
percentage of net revenue from EA studio and digital products, which have higher margins than our co-publishing and distribution products and (2) a $145 million decrease in restructuring and other charges. The increase in net income was
partially offset by (1) a $106 million increase in marketing and sales costs, (2) a $59 million increase in research and development costs, and (3) a $74 million increase in general and administrative costs. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Trends in Our Business 
Digital Content Distribution and Services.    Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time
on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of online-delivered products and services including through our Origin
platform. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our
packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game
services, and games for mobile devices. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being
used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology and consumer acceptance of digital distribution by offering different sales models, such as subscription services, online downloads
for a one-time fee, micro-transactions and advertising-supported free-to-play games and game sites. In addition, we offer our consumers the ability to play a game across platforms on multiple devices. We significantly increased the revenues
that we derive from wireless, Internet-derived and advertising (digital) products and services from $743 million in fiscal year 2011 to $1,159 million in fiscal year 2012 and we expect this portion of our business to continue to grow in fiscal 2013
and beyond.  Wireless and Other Emerging Platforms.    Advances in technology have resulted in a variety of
platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming gaming services, and Internet platforms. Our efforts in wireless interactive entertainment are focused in downloadable games for mobile devices. These
platforms grow the consumer base for our business while also providing competition to existing established video game platforms. We expect sales of games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business.
 Growth of Casual and Social Games.    The popularity of wireless and other emerging gaming platforms such as smart
phones, tablets and social networking sites, such as Facebook, has led to the growth of casual and social gaming. Casual and social games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization including free-to-play and
micro-transaction business models, and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic of younger and older players and more female players than video games played on console devices. These areas are among the
fastest growing segments of our sector and we have responded to this opportunity by developing casual and social games based on our established intellectual properties such as The Sims, FIFA and Battlefield, and with our acquisition of PopCap Games.
We expect sales of casual and social and casual games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business.  Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games.    We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and those titles are
typically sequels of prior games. We have responded to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce to provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. We published 36 primary packaged goods
titles in fiscal year 2011, 22 in fiscal year 2012 and in fiscal year 2013, we expect to release 14 primary packaged goods titles and plan to build additional online features, content and services around each of these titles. 
Evolving Sales Patterns.    Our business has evolved from a traditional packaged goods business model to one where our
games are played on a variety of platforms including mobile devices and social networking sites. Our strategy is to transform our core intellectual properties into year-round businesses, with a steady flow of downloadable content and extensions on
new platforms. Our increasingly digital, multi-platform business no longer reflects the retail sales patterns associated with traditional packaged goods launches. For example, we offer our consumers additional services and/or additional content
available through online services to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. Our social and casual games offer free-to-play and micro-transaction models. We also offer
subscription-based products, such as our MMO role-playing game Star Wars: The Old Republic. The revenues we derive from these services has become increasingly more significant year-over-year. Our service revenue represented 13 percent, 8
percent, and 6 percent of total net revenue in fiscal year 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
  30 


Table of Contents




   Recent
Developments  Stock Repurchase Program.    In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors
authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. We completed our program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market since the commencement of the program,
including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. During the fiscal year 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 25 million shares of our common stock for approximately $471 million, net of commissions. 
International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact.    International sales (revenue derived from countries other
than Canada and the United States), are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 52 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2012 and approximately 49 percent of our total net
revenue during fiscal year 2011. Our net revenue is impacted by foreign exchange rates during the reporting period associated with net revenue before revenue deferral, as well as the foreign exchange rates associated with the recognition of deferred
net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content that were established at the time we recorded this deferred net revenue on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The foreign exchange rates during the reporting period may not always move
in the same direction as the foreign exchange rate impact associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, foreign exchange rates had an
overall favorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $143 million, or 3 percent. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  Our Consolidated Financial Statements
have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our
financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may
differ materially from our estimates.  Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves
 We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games (1) on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3,
Xbox 360 and Wii) and PCs, (2) on mobile devices (such the Apple iPhone and Google compatible Android phones), (3) on tablets and electronic readers such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle, and (4) from software and content and
online game services associated with these products. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 985-605, Software:
Revenue Recognition, and Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 101, Revenue Recognition, as revised by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We classify our revenue as either Product revenue or Service and other
revenue.  We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: 
 


 
•
 
 Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products must be
present.   


 
•
 
 Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the
customer. For services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided.   


 
•
 
 Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or
determinable. 
  31 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the
creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when
collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection).  Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been
satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, could cause a material increase or
decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period.  Multiple-element arrangements 
We enter into multiple-element revenue arrangements in which we may provide a combination of game software, updates or additional content and online game
services. For some software products we may provide updates or additional content (“digital content”) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell this digital
content for an additional fee. In other transactions, we may have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee (i.e., updates on a when-and-if-available basis) or we may offer an
online “matchmaking” service that permits consumers to play against each other via the Internet. Collectively, we refer to these as software-related offerings. In those situations where we do not require an additional fee for the
software-related offerings, we account for the sale of the software product and software-related offerings as a “bundled” sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and relating offerings for one
combined price. Generally, we do not have VSOE for the software-related offerings and thus, we defer net revenue from sales of these games and recognize the revenue from the bundled sales games over the period the offering will be provided (the
“offering period”). If the period is not defined, we recognize revenue over the estimated offering period, which is generally estimated to be six months, beginning in the month after delivery. In addition, determining whether we have an
implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical
online usage.  Determining whether an element of a transaction constitutes an online game service or a digital content download of a product
requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met).
Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. For example, our MMO games have an estimated service period of eighteen months,
beginning in the month after delivery.  For our software and software-related multiple element arrangements (i.e., software game
bundled with software-related offerings), we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether the undelivered elements are essential to the functionality of the
delivered elements, (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the
arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period.  In some of our
multiple element arrangements, we sell tangible products with software and/or software-related offerings. These tangible products are generally either peripherals or ancillary collectors’ items. Prior to April 3, 2011, because either the
software or other elements sold with the tangible products were essential to the functionality of the tangible product and/or we did not have VSOE for the tangible product, we did not separately account for the tangible product. On April 3,
2011, we adopted FASB ASU 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and ASU 2009-14, Software (Topic 985): Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements. The new accounting
principles establish a selling price 
  32 


Table of Contents




   
hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable and require the application of the relative selling price method to allocate the arrangement consideration to each deliverable in a
multiple element arrangement that includes tangible products.  Accordingly for our multiple element arrangements that include tangible
products entered into after April 2, 2011, revenue is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described
below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a group and then allocated to each software deliverable in accordance with ASC 985-605. 
We determine the selling price for a tangible product deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE (i.e., the price we charge
when the tangible product is sold separately) if available, third-party evidence (“TPE”) of fair value (i.e., the price charged by others for similar tangible products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price
(“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including, but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes,
sales channels and other factors.  As the result of adopting ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14, for the year ended March 31, 2012, we
recognized $23 million more revenue than would have been recognized under previous accounting standards.  We reduce revenue for estimated
future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product.
The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock-balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these
software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds.  In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze
historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related
factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods.
 In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution
channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these
matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and/or price
protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this
would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online-enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of deferred net revenue we recognize in the future would
change.  Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine
our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and
timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Fair Value Estimates  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to
fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can
have a material impact on the accounting.  There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the
market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows
or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of
acquired intangible assets, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset
or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the expected receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with
the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be
negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a
relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired.  While we are
required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to these assessments:  Business Combinations.    We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration
issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the
estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the
expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of
an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration issued requires an assessment of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the
obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participant’s view of the risk associated with the obligation. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a
business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets.    Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived
acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a
potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated future cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent
upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are
dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules.  On January 1, 2012, we adopted ASU 2011-08, Intangibles –
Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. ASU 2011-08 allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying
amount as a basis for determining 
  34 


Table of Contents




   
whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, it
need not perform the two-step impairment test. If based on that assessment, we believe it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units is less than its carrying value, a two-step goodwill impairment test is required to be
performed. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and
liabilities within each reporting unit. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which discrete financial information is available and segment management regularly reviews the
operating results of that component.  To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use the market approach,
which utilizes comparable companies’ data, the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows, or a combination thereof. Determining whether an event or change in circumstances does or does not indicate that the fair value of a reporting
unit is below its carrying amount is inherently subjective. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates, tax rates, and
operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on a weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and
assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. As of our last annual assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units
significantly exceeded their carrying amounts and we have not identified any indicators of impairment since. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external
sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and
emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of inaccuracy. If future forecasts
are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those
estimates.  Assessment of Impairment of Short-Term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities.    We periodically
review our short-term investments and marketable equity securities for impairment. Our short-term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities
consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available-for-sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold, (2) the security has matured, or (3) we determine that the fair value of the security has declined below its
adjusted cost basis and the decline is other-than-temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and are reclassified from accumulated
other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net, and gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific
facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge,
including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near-term
prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as
well as, if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in impairment charges in the future, which could have a material
impact on our financial results. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence.    We regularly review inventory quantities
on-hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value,
based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the
restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.  Adoption of ASU 2011-04.    On January 1, 2012,
we adopted the FASB Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The guidance limits the
highest-and-best-use measure to nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and liabilities with offsetting positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability
of premiums and discounts. Additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures on Level 3 inputs by requiring quantitative disclosure of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description of the valuation processes and the
sensitivity of the fair value to changes in unobservable inputs. Adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Royalties and Licenses  Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of
payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to
independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. 
Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are
accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts
with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our
future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which
can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the title’s release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the
inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize.
 Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the
development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and
development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. 
Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the
contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability
upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next 12 months. 
  36 


Table of Contents




   Each quarter, we also evaluate the
expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch
of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when
impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned (i.e.,
cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated.  Income Taxes 
We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of
assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion
of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed
when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the economic environment. Therefore,
cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment.  In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also
required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under
current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation
involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available
to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets.  Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance
against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that
these benefits are more likely than not to be realized.  In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations
where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the
completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to
make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes
of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in
our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances,
applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall
effective income tax rate.  We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested
outside of the United States, and accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. 
  37 


Table of Contents
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 each contained 52
weeks and ended on March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, respectively. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 contained 53 weeks and ended on April 3, 2010. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods
are referred to as ending on a calendar month-end.  Comparison of Fiscal Year 2012 to Fiscal Year 2011 
Net Revenue  Net revenue consists
of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods or as digital downloads and designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), and PCs, (2) video games for mobile devices (such as the
Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), (3) video games for tablets and electronic readers such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle, (4) software products and content and online game services associated with these products,
(5) programming third-party websites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games.
 We provide three different measures of our Net Revenue. Two of these measures are presented in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”) – (1) Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue and (2) Net Revenue by Geography. The third measure is a non-GAAP financial measure – Net Revenue
by Revenue Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. We use this third non-GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing
the performance of our management team.  Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net
Revenue by Revenue Composition than by Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue. These two measures differ as (1) Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue reflects the deferral and recognition of revenue
in periods subsequent to the date of sale due to U.S. GAAP while Net Revenue by Revenue Composition does not, and (2) both measures contain a different aggregation of sales from one another. For instance, Service and other revenue does not
include the majority of our full-game digital download and mobile sales that are fully included in our Digital revenue. Further, Service and other revenue includes all of our revenue associated with MMO games while software sales associated with our
MMOs are included in either Digital revenue or Publishing and other revenue depending on whether the sale was a full-game digital download or a packaged goods sale.  Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue  Our total net revenue by
product revenue and service and other revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions):   




















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
$ Change
 
  
% Change
 

 Net revenue:
  



  



  



  




 Product
  
$
3,415
  
  
$
3,181
  
  
$
234
  
  
 
7
% 

 Service and other
  
 
728
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
320
  
  
 
78
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total net revenue
  
$
4,143
  
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
554
  
  
 
15
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Product Revenue  Our product revenue includes revenue associated with the sale of game software, whether delivered via a disc (i.e., packaged goods) or via the Internet (i.e., full-game download), that do
not require our continuous hosting 
  38 


Table of Contents




   
support, and licensing of game software to third-parties. This excludes game software from our MMO games (both game and subscription sales), which is included in service and other revenue as such
game software requires continuous hosting support. Product revenue also includes mobile games that do not have an online service component and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors’ items. 
For fiscal year 2012, product revenue was $3,415 million, primarily driven by FIFA 12, Battlefield 3, and Madden NFL 12. Product revenue
for fiscal year 2012 increased $234 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by a $937 million increase primarily from the Battlefield, Crysis, and FIFA franchises. This increase was offset by a $703 million
decrease primarily from the FIFA World Cup, Medal of Honor, Rock Band, and Army of Two franchises, as well as Dante’s Inferno.  Service and Other Revenue  Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from
games or related content that requires our hosting support to provide substantial gaming experience, and time-based subscriptions. This includes (1) subscriptions for our Pogo-branded online game services, (2) MMO games (both game and
subscription sales), (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting services (e.g., micro-transactions for Internet-based, social network and mobile games which includes “freemium” games), and (4) allocated
service revenue from sales of online-enable packaged goods with an online service component (i.e., “matchmaking” services). Our other revenue includes non-software licensing and advertising revenue. 
For fiscal year 2012, service and other revenue was $728 million, primarily driven by (1) Star Wars: The Old Republic, which was launched in
the third quarter, (2) our micro-transactions revenue from browser-based games including games played on Facebook such as The Sims Social, and (3) our FIFA Ultimate Team add-on game service. Service and other revenue for fiscal year
2012 increased $320 million, or 78 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily driven by a $351 million increase from certain services associated with the FIFA and The Sims franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old
Republic. This increase was partially offset by a $31 million decrease in service revenue generated by our Pogo-branded online game services and the Warhammer and Ultima Online MMO franchises. In fiscal year 2013, we expect to increase our total
service revenue as compared to fiscal year 2012.  Net Revenue by Geography 
 




















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

(In millions)
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
$ Change
 
  
% Change
 

 North America
  
$
1,991
  
  
$
1,836
  
  
$
155
  
  
 
8
% 

 Europe
  
 
1,898
  
  
 
1,563
  
  
 
335
  
  
 
21
% 

 Asia
  
 
254
  
  
 
190
  
  
 
64
  
  
 
34
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total net revenue
  
$
4,143
  
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
554
  
  
 
15
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Net revenue in North America was $1,991 million, or 48% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2012, compared to $1,836
million, or 51% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $155 million, or 8%. Net revenue in Europe and Asia was $2,152 million, or 52 percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2012, compared to $1,753 million, or 49 percent of
total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, an increase of $399 million, or 23 percent. The rapid increase in revenue outside of North America was primarily the result of increased sales from our FIFA, Battlefield, and Crysis franchises in Europe.
Additionally, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies contributed to an increase of total reported net revenue of approximately $143 million (primarily the Swiss Franc and Australian Dollar), or 3 percent of total net revenue.

  39 


Table of Contents
Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition 
As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally via the Internet, we place a greater emphasis and
focus on assessing our business through a review of net revenue by revenue composition.  Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non-GAAP
financial measure, is provided in this section of MD&A, including a discussion of the components of this measure: (1) publishing and other, (2) wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital), and (3) distribution. See
“Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for an explanation of our use of this non-GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP is provided in the discussion below. 
“Revenue Deferral” in this “Net Revenue” section includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of software and
software-related offerings for which we do not have VSOE for the software-related offerings, (2) certain sales of MMO games, and (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting services, which are types of
“micro-transactions.” Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the Recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period
is also dependent upon (1) the amount deferred, (2) the period of time the software-related offerings are to be provided, and (3) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first half of a fiscal year
are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year.  Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): 
 




















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Publishing and other
  
$
2,736
  
 
$
2,781
  
 
$
(45
) 
 
 
(2
%) 

 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital)
  
 
1,227
  
 
 
833
  
 
 
394
  
 
 
47
% 

 Distribution
  
 
223
  
 
 
214
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral
  
 
4,186
  
 
 
3,828
  
 
 
358
  
 
 
9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 










 Revenue Deferral
  
 
(3,142
) 
 
 
(2,769
) 
 
 
(373
) 
 
 
13
% 

 Recognition of Revenue Deferral
  
 
3,099
  
 
 
2,530
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
22
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net Revenue
  
$
4,143
  
 
$
3,589
  
 
$
554
  
 
 
15
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 
Publishing and Other Revenue  Publishing and other revenue includes (1) sales of our internally-developed and co-published game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers,
(2) our non-software licensing revenue, and (3) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products
(“OEM bundles”).  For fiscal year 2012, publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $2,736 million, primarily
driven by Battlefield 3, FIFA 12, and Madden NFL 12. Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2012 decreased $45 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This decrease was driven by a
$1,163 million decrease in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, FIFA World Cup, Dragon Age, and Dead Space franchises. This decrease was offset by a $1,118 million increase in sales primarily from the Battlefield, Mass Effect,
and FIFA franchises. 
  40 


Table of Contents




   Wireless,
Internet-derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue  Digital revenue includes revenue from sales of our internally-developed and
co-published game software distributed through direct download through the Internet, including through our direct-to-consumer platform Origin, or distributed wirelessly through mobile carriers. This includes our full-game downloads, mobile and
tablet revenue (each of which are generally classified as product revenue with the exception of our MMO game downloads which are classified as service revenue) as well as subscription services, micro-transactions, and advertising revenues (each of
which is generally classified as service and other revenue).  For fiscal year 2012, digital Net Revenue before Deferral was $1,227 million, an
increase of $394 million, or 47 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by a $452 million increase in sales primarily from the FIFA and The Sims franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. This increase was
offset by a $58 million decrease in sales primarily from the Tetris and Warhammer franchises, as well as a decrease in sales generated by our Pogo-branded online services.  Distribution Revenue  Distribution revenue includes (1) sales of game software
developed by independent game developers that we distribute and (2) sales through our Switzerland distribution business. For fiscal year 2012, distribution Net Revenue was $223 million and increased $9 million, or 4 percent, as compared to
fiscal year 2011 driven by an $89 million increase in sales in the Portal franchise. This increase was offset by an $80 million decrease primarily driven by a decrease in sales in the Rock Band franchise. 
Revenue Deferral 
Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2012 increased $373 million, or 13 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily due to (1) a 47
percent increase in our current year digital sales and (2) a higher percentage of both our publishing and digital sales being deferred and recognized over time, due in part to a 135 percent increase in full-game download sales and a 47 percent
increase in micro-transaction sales, of which both contain an online service component which requires revenue recognition as the service is delivered.  Recognition of Revenue Deferral  The vast majority of our sales are deferred and
recognized over a six month period, and therefore, the related revenue recognized in any fiscal year is primarily due to sales that occurred during the respective twelve months period ended December 31. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for
fiscal year 2012 increased $569 million, or 22 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily due to increased publishing and digital sales during the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, and a higher percentage of
those sales being comprised of games sales that have an online service component, as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2011.  Net Revenue  For fiscal year 2012, Net Revenue was $4,143 million and increased $554
million, or 15 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by a $1,312 million increase in revenue primarily from the Battlefield, Crysis, and FIFA franchises. This increase was offset by a $758 million decrease in revenue
primarily from the Medal of Honor, FIFA World Cup, and Army of Two franchises, as well as Dante’s Inferno, for which there were no iterations in fiscal year 2012. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years 2012 and 2011 was as
follows (in millions):   












 
  
    Year Ended March 31,    
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 

 Product revenue:
  



  




 Publishing and other
  
$
2,674
  
  
$
2,558
  

 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital)
  
 
518
  
  
 
409
  

 Distribution
  
 
223
  
  
 
214
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total product revenue
  
 
3,415
  
  
 
3,181
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Service and other revenue:
  



  




 Publishing and other
  
 
87
  
  
 
74
  

 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital)
  
 
641
  
  
 
334
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total service and other revenue
  
 
728
  
  
 
408
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
$
4,143
  
  
$
3,589
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Non-GAAP Financial Measures  Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to sales of games and
digital content.  Revenue Deferral includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of software and software-related offerings
for which we do not have VSOE for the software-related offerings, (2) certain sales of MMO games, and (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting services, which are types of “micro-transactions.” We recognize
the revenue from these games over the estimated period.  We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of
Revenue Deferral related to games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between periods in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period, and understanding our operations because all
related costs of revenues are expensed as incurred instead of deferred and recognized ratably. We use this non-GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when
assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in
isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies. 
Cost of Revenue  Total cost of
revenue for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions):   




























 
 
March 31,2012
 
 
% ofRelated 
NetRevenue
 
 
March 31,2011
 
 
% ofRelated NetRevenue

 
 
% Change
 
 
Change as a% of 
RelatedNet Revenue
 

 Cost of revenue:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Product
 
$
1,374
  
 
 
40.2
% 
 
$
1,407
  
 
 
44.2
% 
 
 
(2.3
%) 
 
 
(4.0
%) 

 Service and other
 
 
224
  
 
 
30.8
% 
 
 
92
  
 
 
22.5
% 
 
 
143.5
% 
 
 
8.3
% 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 




 Total cost of revenue
 
$
1,598
  
 
 
38.6
% 
 
$
1,499
  
 
 
41.8
% 
 
 
6.6
% 
 
 
(3.2
%) 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 




  42 


Table of Contents




   Cost of Product
Revenue  Cost of product revenue consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional
sports and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid
royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in
connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized.  Cost of product revenue decreased by $33 million, or 2.3 percent in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a 135 percent increase in full-game downloads that
have a lower cost than our other products in fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011.  Cost of Service and
Other Revenue  Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting
our online games and websites, (2) platform processing fees from operating our website-based games on third party platforms, (3) associated royalty costs, (4) credit card fees associated with our service revenue, and (5) server
costs related to our website advertising business.  Cost of service and other revenue increased by $132 million, or 143.5 percent in fiscal
year 2012, as compared to fiscal year 2011. The increase was primarily due to increased server and support costs due to the release of more online-connected and subscription-based titles and related content during fiscal year 2012 as compared to
fiscal year 2011. As our service revenue in fiscal year 2013 is expected to increase as compared to fiscal year 2012, we expect a corresponding increase in our service and support costs. 
Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue  During fiscal year 2012, total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 3.2 percent as compared to fiscal year 2011. This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due
to (1) a greater percentage of net revenue from our digital products, that have a lower cost than our other products, which positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 3.5 percent and (2) a $196
million decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for fiscal year 2012 as compared to fiscal year 2011, which positively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net
revenue by 2.2 percent. These decreases are partially offset by (1) increased expenses related to our online and customer experience initiatives, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by 1.2 percent,
(2) an increase in amortization of our acquisition-related intangibles resulting mainly from the PopCap acquisition in fiscal year 2012, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by 0.9 percent, and (3) an
increase in sales of our distribution products which carry a higher royalty percentage than our other products, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by 0.9 percent. 
Research and Development 
Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted
services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of website content, software licenses and maintenance, network
infrastructure and management overhead.  Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions):
  














 March 31,2012
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 March 31,
2011
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $1,212
    
29%
    
$1,153
    
32%
    
$59
    
5%

  43 


Table of Contents
Research and development expenses increase by $59 million, or 5 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to
fiscal year 2011. This increase was primarily due to (1) a $68 million increase in personnel-related costs and (2) a $13 million increase in facilities-related expenses both primarily resulting from an increase in headcount in connection
with recent acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by a $23 million decrease in development costs primarily due to a decrease in titles under development.  Marketing and Sales  Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related
costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties.  Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions):   














 March 31,
2012
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 March 31,
2011
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $853
    
21%
    
$747
    
21%
    
$106
    
14%
 Marketing and sales expenses increased by $106 million, or 14 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year
2011. The increase was primarily due to (1) a $50 million increase in additional personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount in connection with recent acquisitions, (2) a $29 million increase in marketing, advertising
and promotional spending, and (3) a $18 million increase in contracted service costs related to online and customer relationship initiatives.  Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $39 million and $31 million in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
General and Administrative 
General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for
professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts.  General and administrative expenses for fiscal
years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions):   














 March 31,
2012
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 March 31,
2011
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $375
    
9%
    
$301
    
8%
    
$74
    
25%
 General and administrative expenses increased by $74 million, or 25 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal
year 2011. The increase was primarily due to (1) a $34 million increase in contracted service costs related to online initiatives, litigation, and recent acquisitions, (2) a $27 million accrual related to a potential settlement of an
on-going litigation matter, (3) a $13 million increase in bad debt expense, and (4) a $13 million increase in additional personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount in connection with recent acquisitions. These
increases were partially offset by a $15 million decrease in facility overhead costs.  Acquisition-Related Contingent Consideration
 Acquisition-related contingent consideration for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,
2012
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 March 31,
2011
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $11
    
—
    
$(17)
    
—
    
$28
    
(165%)
 Acquisition-related contingent consideration expense increased by $28 million, or 165 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as
compared to fiscal year 2011, primarily related to (1) a $19 million prior year decrease of our accrual in 
  44 


Table of Contents




   
connection with our Playfish acquisition resulting from revisions in our estimate of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation was expected to be settled with no
comparable revision to decrease the accrual in fiscal year 2012 and (2) a contributing increase of $9 million resulting from contingent consideration from other acquisitions in the current year. 
Amortization of Intangibles 
Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,
2012
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 March 31,
2011
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $43
    
1%
    
$57
    
2%
    
$(14)
    
(25%)
 Amortization of intangibles decreased by $14 million, or 25 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year
2011. This decrease was primarily due to certain intangible assets from our prior year acquisitions being fully amortized during the fiscal year 2012.  Restructuring and Other Charges  Restructuring and other charges for fiscal years
2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions):   














 March 31,
2012
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 March 31,
2011
    
 % of Net
Revenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $16
    
—
    
$161
    
4%
    
$(145)
    
(90%)
 Restructuring and other charges decreased by $145 million, or 90 percent, in fiscal year 2012, as compared to fiscal year
2011, due to (1) no new restructuring initiatives in fiscal year 2012 and (2) a gain of $10 million recognized during the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 on the sale of our facility in Chertsey, England related to our fiscal year 2008
reorganization. These items are partially offset by adjustments to the estimated loss for the amendment of certain licensing agreements related to our fiscal 2011 restructuring.  We expect to incur between $12 million and $17 million non-cash related accretion of interest expense through June 2016, related to the amendment of a licensing agreement under our fiscal year 2011 plan.
We do not expect to incur any additional restructuring charges under any other preceding plans.  On May 7, 2012, we announced a plan of
restructuring to align our cost structure with our ongoing digital transformation. Under this plan, we anticipate reducing our workforce and incurring other costs. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by September 30, 2012.
 In connection with this plan, we anticipate incurring approximately $40 million in total costs, of which approximately $31 million will
result in future cash expenditures. All of these charges are expected to occur during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. These costs will consist of severance and other employee-related costs (approximately $23 million), license termination
costs (approximately $11 million) and other costs (approximately $6 million).  Gains (Losses) on Strategic Investments, Net
 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,2012
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $ —
    
—
    
$23
    
1%
    
$(23)
    
(100%)
 We did not recognize any impairment charges or losses during the year ended March 31, 2012. During the year ended
March 31, 2011, we realized a gain of $28 million, net of costs to sell, from the sale of our investment in Ubisoft. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net 
Interest and other income (expense), net, for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,2012
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $(17)
    
—
    
$10
    
—
    
$(27)
    
(270%)
 Interest and other income (expense), net decreased by $27 million, or 270 percent, during fiscal year 2012 as compared to
the fiscal year 2011, primarily due to (1) a $19 million increase in interest expense due to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, which were issued in July 2011 and (2) $8 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses as
compared to the same period in the prior year.  Income Taxes  Benefit from income taxes for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions):   










 March 31,2012
    
 EffectiveTax Rate
    
 March 31,2011
    
 Effective
TaxRate

 $(58)
    
(322.2%)
    
$(3)
    
(1.1%)
 Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year 2012 was a tax benefit of 322.2 percent. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal
year 2011 was a tax benefit of 1.1 percent. In fiscal year 2012 we recorded approximately $58 million of additional net deferred tax liabilities related to the PopCap and KlickNation Corporation (“KlickNation”) acquisitions. These
additional deferred tax liabilities create a new source of taxable income, thereby requiring us to release a portion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance with a related reduction in income tax expense of $58 million. In addition, during the
three months ended March 31, 2012, we recorded $48 million of additional tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations in non-U.S. tax jurisdictions.  Consistent with prior years, the fiscal year 2012 effective tax rate continues to differ from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent as a result of the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets subject to a
valuation allowance and non-U.S. profits subject to a reduced or zero tax rate, partially offset by non-deductible stock-based compensation. In addition, the fiscal year 2012 effective tax rate is impacted by tax benefits related to the expiration
of statutes of limitations and the resolution of examinations by taxing authorities, as well as a reduction in the U.S. valuation allowance related to the PopCap and KlickNation acquisitions. In fiscal year 2011, the effective tax rate differs from
the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit and non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses, partially offset by tax benefits related to
the expiration of statutes of limitations and resolution of examination by taxing authorities.  Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year
2013 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure,
changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings
and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or
loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our
effective tax rate will be more volatile.  Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward
periods permitted by tax law have not been considered as a source of future taxable income that is available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. 
  46 


Table of Contents




   The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance
Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 (the “Act”) was signed into law on December 17, 2010. The Act contains a number of provisions including, most notably, a two year extension of the research tax credit. The Act did not have
a material impact on our effective tax rate for fiscal 2012 due to the effect of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets.  We
historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely
reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States.  Comparison of Fiscal Year 2011 to Fiscal
Year 2010  Net Revenue  Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue  Our total net revenue by
product revenue and service and other revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions):   




















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Net Revenue:
  



  



  



 




 Product
  
$
3,181
  
  
$
3,332
  
  
$
(151
) 
 
 
(5
%) 

 Service and other
  
 
408
  
  
 
322
  
  
 
86
  
 
 
(27
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total net revenue
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
3,654
  
  
$
(65
) 
 
 
(2
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 



 Product Revenue  For fiscal year 2011, product revenue was $3,181 million, primarily driven by FIFA 11, Battlefield: Bad Company 2, and Madden NFL 11. Product revenue for fiscal year 2011 decreased $151
million, or 5 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was driven by a $1,070 million decrease primarily from the Rock Band, Half-Life, EA SPORTS Active, and Fight Night franchises. This decrease was offset by a $919 million increase
primarily from the Battlefield, Medal of Honor, and FIFA World Cup franchises.  Service and Other Revenue
 For fiscal year 2011, service and other revenue was $408 million, primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Restaurant City,
and Pet Society. Service and other revenue for fiscal year 2011 increased $86 million, or 27 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was driven by a $137 million increase from certain franchises, including the FIFA,
Madden, and The Sims franchises. This increase was offset by a $51 million decrease from revenue generated by our Pogo-branded online services and the Warhammer and NBA Live franchises. 
Net Revenue by Geography   




















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

(In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 North America
  
$
1,836
  
  
$
2,025
  
  
$
(189
) 
 
 
(9
%) 

 Europe
  
 
1,563
  
  
 
1,433
  
  
 
130
  
 
 
9
% 

 Asia
  
 
190
  
  
 
196
  
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
(3
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




 Total net revenue
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
3,654
  
  
$
(65
) 
 
 
(2
%) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 




  47 


Table of Contents
Net revenue in North America was $1,836 million, or 51% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, compared
to $2,025 million, or 55% of total net revenue for fiscal year 2010, a decrease of $189 million, or 9%. Net revenue in Europe and Asia was $1,753 million, or 49 percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2011, compared to $1,629 million, or 45
percent of total net revenue for fiscal year 2010, an increase of $124 million, or 8 percent. The increase in revenue outside of North America was the primarily the result of increased revenue from the Battlefield, Medal of Honor, and FIFA World Cup
franchises in Europe. Additionally, the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies contributed to a net decrease of total reported net revenue of approximately $71 million (primarily the Euro), or 4 percent of total net revenue.
 Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition  Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions):   




















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
$ Change
 
 
% Change
 

 Publishing and other
  
$
2,781
  
 
$
2,983
  
 
$
(202
) 
 
 
(7
%) 

 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital)
  
 
833
  
 
 
570
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
46
% 

 Distribution
  
 
214
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
(392
) 
 
 
(65
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral
  
 
3,828
  
 
 
4,159
  
 
 
(331
) 
 
 
(8
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 










 Revenue Deferral
  
 
(2,769
) 
 
 
(2,358
) 
 
 
(411
) 
 
 
17
% 

 Recognition of Revenue Deferral
  
 
2,530
  
 
 
1,853
  
 
 
677
  
 
 
37
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net Revenue
  
$
3,589
  
 
$
3,654
  
 
$
(65
) 
 
 
(2
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 
Publishing and Other Revenue  For fiscal year 2011, publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $2,781 million, primarily driven by FIFA 11, Madden 11, and Need for Speed Hot Pursuit. Publishing and
other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2011 decreased $202 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease was driven by a $943 million decrease in sales primarily from the Battlefield, Army of Two, Mass
Effect, EA SPORTS Active, NBA Live, and Godfather franchises, as well as Dante’s Inferno. This decrease was offset by a $741 million increase in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, FIFA World Cup, and Crysis franchises. 
Wireless, Internet-derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue  For fiscal year 2011, digital Net Revenue before Deferral was $833 million, an increase of $263 million, or 46 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was driven by a $318 million increase
in sales primarily from the FIFA, Battlefield, Madden, The Sims, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, Medal of Honor, Dragon Age, and Dead Space franchises, as well as Scrabble. This increase was offset by a $55 million decrease in sales primarily
from the Warhammer and Tetris franchises, as well as a decrease in sales generated from our Pogo-branded online services. 
Distribution Revenue 
For fiscal year 2011, distribution Net Revenue was $214 million and decreased $392 million, or 65 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010 driven by a
$403 million decrease in sales primarily in the Rock Band and Portal franchises. This decrease was partially offset by an $11 million increase in sales primarily from Rango. 
  48 


Table of Contents




   Revenue Deferral
 Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2011 increased $411 million, or 17 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was
primarily due to (1) a 46 percent increase in our digital sales and (2) a higher percentage of both our publishing and digital sales being deferred and recognized over time, due in part to a 148 percent increase in micro-transaction sales and a
27 percent increase in full-game download sales, of which both contain an online service component which requires revenue recognition as the service is delivered.  Recognition of Revenue Deferral  The vast majority of our sales are deferred and
recognized over a six month period, and therefore the related revenue recognized in any fiscal year is primarily due to sales that occurred during the respective twelve months period ended December 31. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for
fiscal year 2011 increased $677 million, or 37 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This increase was primarily due to increased publishing and digital sales during the 18 months ended March 31, 2011, and a higher percentage of those sales
being comprised of game sales that have an online service component, as compared to fiscal year 2010.  Net Revenue
 For fiscal year 2011, Net Revenue was $3,589 million and decreased $65 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2010. This
decrease was driven by a $1,125 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This decrease was offset by a $1,060 million increase in revenue primarily from the Battlefield and Medal of
Honor franchises.  Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in
millions):   





Change as a 



Change as a 


 
  
Year EndedMarch 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Product revenue:
  



  




 Publishing and other
  
$
2,558
  
  
$
2,431
  

 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital)
  
 
409
  
  
 
295
  

 Distribution
  
 
214
  
  
 
606
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total product revenue
  
 
3,181
  
  
 
3,332
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Service and other revenue:
  



  




 Publishing and other
  
 
74
  
  
 
95
  

 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital)
  
 
334
  
  
 
227
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total service and other revenue
  
 
408
  
  
 
322
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
3,654
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Cost of Revenue  Total cost of revenue for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions):   





Change as a 



Change as a 



Change as a 



Change as a 



Change as a 



Change as a 


 
  
March 31,2011
 
  
% ofRelated 
NetRevenue
 
 
March 31,2010
 
  
% ofRelated 
NetRevenue
 
 
% Change
 
 
Change as a% of 
RelatedNet Revenue
 

 Cost of revenue:
  



  



 



  



 



 




 Product
  
$
1,407
  
  
 
44.2
% 
 
$
1,788
  
  
 
53.7
% 
 
 
(21.3
%) 
 
 
(9.5
%) 

 Service and other
  
 
92
  
  
 
22.5
% 
 
 
78
  
  
 
24.2
% 
 
 
17.9
% 
 
 
(1.7
%) 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 



 




 Total cost of revenue
  
$
1,499
  
  
 
41.8
% 
 
$
1,866
  
  
 
51.1
% 
 
 
(19.7
%) 
 
 
(9.3
%) 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 



 




  49 


Table of Contents
Cost of Product Revenue 
Cost of product revenue decreased by $381 million, or 21.3 percent in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010. The decrease was primarily due to
(1) a 27 percent increase in full-game digital downloads that have a lower cost than our other products and (2) a decrease in sales of our distribution products which carry a higher royalty cost. 
Cost of Service and Other Revenue  Cost of service and other revenue increased by $14 million, or 17.9 percent in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily due to server and support costs due to the
release of more online-connected and subscription-based titles and related content during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010.  Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue  During fiscal year 2011,
total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 9.3 percent as compared to fiscal year 2010. This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to (1) a $266 million decrease in the change in deferred net
revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, which positively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net revenue by 3.7 percent and (2) a greater
percentage of net revenue from EA studio and digital products, which have a higher margin than our co-publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 3.3 percent.
 Research and Development  Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions):   














 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2010
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $1,153
    
32%
    
$1,229
    
34%
    
$(76)
    
(6%)
 Research and development expenses decreased by $76 million, or 6 percent, in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year
2010. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in expenses resulting from our cost reduction initiatives including (1) a $38 million decrease in external development and contracted services, (2) a $37 million decrease in additional
personnel-related costs, and (3) a $27 million decrease in facilities-related expenses primarily due to lower depreciation expense. These decreases were partially offset by a $24 million increase in incentive-based compensation expense.
 Marketing and Sales 
Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2010
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $747
    
21%
    
$730
    
20%
    
$17
    
2%
 Marketing and sales expenses increased by $17 million, or 2 percent, in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal year
2010. The increase was primarily due to (1) a $13 million increase in additional personnel-related costs and (2) a $5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by a $5 million decrease in
marketing, advertising and promotional expenses reflecting fewer titles released during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010. 
Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $31 million and $39 million in fiscal years 2011 and 2010,
respectively. 
  50 


Table of Contents




   General and Administrative
 General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2010
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $301
    
8%
    
$320
    
9%
    
$(19)
    
(6%)
 General and administrative expenses decreased by $19 million, or 6 percent, in fiscal year 2011, as compared to fiscal
year 2010 primarily due to (1) a $25 million decrease in facilities-related expenses, primarily as a result of the $14 million loss on our lease obligation related to our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities in fiscal year 2010 and
(2) an $18 million decrease in contracted services due to costs related to the support of business development projects in the prior year. These decreases were partially offset by (1) a $13 million increase in additional personnel-related
costs, (2) a $12 million increase in incentive-based compensation expense, and (3) a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation expense.  Acquisition-Related Contingent Consideration  Acquisition-related contingent
consideration related to Playfish decreased $19 million for the fiscal year 2011 as compared to the fiscal year 2010, resulting from a revision in our estimate of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the contingent obligation is
expected to be settled.  Restructuring and Other Charges  Restructuring and other charges for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions):   














 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2010
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

$161
    
4%
    
$140
    
4%
    
$21
    
15%
 Fiscal 2011 Restructuring  In fiscal year 2011, we announced a plan focused on the restructuring of certain licensing and developer agreements in an effort to improve the long-term profitability of our packaged goods business.
Under this plan, we amended certain licensing and developer agreements. To a much lesser extent, as part of this restructuring we had workforce reductions and facilities closures through March 31, 2011. Substantially all of these exit
activities were completed by March 31, 2011.  During fiscal year 2011, we incurred charges of $148 million, consisting of (1) $104
million related to the amendment of certain licensing agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs, (2) $31 million related to the amendment of certain developer agreements, and (3) $13 million in employee-related expenses.
 Fiscal 2010 Restructuring  In connection with our fiscal 2010 restructuring plan, during fiscal year 2011, we incurred $13 million of restructuring charges primarily due to costs to assist in the reorganization of our business
support functions. During fiscal year 2010, we incurred $116 million of restructuring charges of which (1) $62 million were for employee-related expenses, (2) $32 million related to intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned rights to
intellectual property, and costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and (3) $22 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. 
Other Restructuring and Reorganization  In connection with our fiscal 2009 restructuring plan and fiscal 2008 reorganization plan, during fiscal year 2010, we incurred $14 million and $10 million of charges, respectively, primarily for
facilities-related expenses under the fiscal 2009 plan and contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions under the fiscal 2008 plan. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Gains (Losses) on Strategic Investments, Net 
Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): 
 














 March 31,2011
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 March 31,2010
    
 % of NetRevenue
    
 $ Change
    
 % Change

 $23
    
1%
    
$(26)
    
(1%)
    
$49
    
(188%)
 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net increased by $49 million, in fiscal year 2011 as compared to the fiscal year
2010, primarily due to a realized gain of $28 million, net of costs to sell, from the sale of our investment in Ubisoft.  We recognized a $26
million impairment charge on our investment in The9 in fiscal year 2010.  Income Taxes 
Benefit from income taxes for fiscal years 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): 
 










 March 31,2011
    
 EffectiveTax Rate
    
 March 31,2010
    
 Effective
Tax Rate

 $(3)
    
(1.1%)
    
$(29)
    
(4.1%)
 Our effective tax rate for the fiscal year 2011 was a tax benefit of 1.1 percent. Our effective tax rate for the fiscal
year 2010 was a tax benefit of 4.1 percent. In fiscal year 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax
benefit and non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses, partially offset by tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations and resolution of examination by taxing authorities. In fiscal year 2010, the effective tax rate
differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, tax charges related to our integration of Playfish, non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit, and non-deductible stock-based
compensation expenses, partially offset by benefits related to the resolution of examinations by the taxing authorities and reductions in the valuation allowance of U.S. deferred tax assets.  The Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009 (“the Act”) was signed into law on November 6, 2009. The Act provides that taxpayers may elect to increase the carry back
period for tax losses incurred in a taxable year beginning or ending in either 2008 or 2009. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009, we elected to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in fiscal year 2009. This
election resulted in a reduction in the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets due to an increase in the sources of taxable income from the extended carry back period. As a result, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $28 million
in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009 for the reduction in the valuation allowance.  Impact of Recently Issued Accounting
Standards  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of
Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011-05 requires one of two alternatives for presenting comprehensive income and eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components as a part of the Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders’ Equity. Additionally, ASU 2011-05 requires presentation on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where
the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The requirement related to the reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to net income was deferred in December 2011, as a result of the
issuance of ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update 2011-05 (Topic 220). The amendments in ASU
2011-05, as amended by ASU 2011-12, do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive 
  52 


Table of Contents




   
income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. ASU 2011-05, as amended by ASU 2011-12 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those
years beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied retrospectively. We will adopt ASU 2011-05 during the first quarter of fiscal 2013. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2011-05, as amended by ASU 2011-12 to have a material impact
on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and
Liabilities, which creates new disclosure requirements about the nature of an entity’s rights of offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative instruments. The disclosure requirements are effective
for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein, with retrospective application required. The new disclosures are designed to make financial statements that are prepared under U.S. Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles more comparable to those prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards. We are evaluating the impact of ASU 2011-11 on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  53 


Table of Contents
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
 
















 
  
As ofMarch 31,
 
 
Decrease
 

(In millions)
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
1,293
  
 
$
1,579
  
 
$
(286
) 

 Short-term investments
  
 
437
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
(60
) 

 Marketable equity securities
  
 
119
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
(42
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
1,849
  
 
$
2,237
  
 
$
(388
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Percentage of total assets
  
 
34
% 
 
 
45
% 
 








 
  
Year EndedMarch 
31,
 
 
Change
 

(In millions)
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 

 Cash provided by operating activities
  
$
277
  
 
$
320
  
 
$
(43
) 

 Cash used in investing activities
  
 
(689
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(674
) 

 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
140
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
163
  

 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
24
  
 
 
(38
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
(286
) 
 
$
306
  
 
$
(592
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Changes in Cash Flow  Operating Activities.    Cash provided by operating activities decreased $43 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) an increase in expenses due to our online and customer experience initiatives, (2) an increase in personnel-related costs from recent acquisitions, and (3) an increase in marketing, advertising
and promotional spending on our franchises. This difference is partially offset by a greater percentage of net revenue from our digital products, which have a higher margin than our other products. 
Investing Activities.    Cash used in investing activities increased $674 million during the fiscal year ended March 31,
2012 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to a $660 million increase in cash used for acquisitions, the majority of which was used to fund our acquisition of PopCap, and a $113 million increase in capital
expenditures. Contributing to this increase, we received $132 million in proceeds from the sale of our Ubisoft and The9 investments during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 with no comparable sale of our investments during the fiscal year
ended March 31, 2012. These items were partially offset by (1) a $84 million increase in proceeds received from the maturities and sales of short-term investments, (2) a $75 million increase due to the release of restriction on
previously classified restricted cash due to the achievement of certain performance milestones in connection with our acquisition of Playfish, (3) a $46 million decrease in the purchase of short-term investments, and (4) $26 million
proceeds received from the sale of our facility in Chertsey, England.  Financing Activities.    Cash provided by
financing activities increased $163 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) $617 million in proceeds received from the sale of 0.75% Convertible
Senior Notes due 2016, net of issuance costs and (2) $65 million proceeds received from the issuance of Warrants in connection with the Notes. These items were partially offset by (1) a $413 million increase in the repurchase and
retirement of our common stock, net of commissions, pursuant to our Stock Repurchase Program and (2) $107 million paid for the purchase of the Convertible Note Hedge. 
  54 


Table of Contents




   Short-term
Investments and Marketable Equity Securities  Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio
is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of March 31, 2012, our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of
less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business
acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. 
The fair value of our marketable equity securities decreased to $119 million as of March 31, 2012 from $161 million as of March 31, 2011
primarily due to a decrease in the value of our investment in Neowiz.  Restricted Cash and Contingent Consideration
 As of March 31, 2012, primarily in connection with our acquisitions of PopCap, KlickNation, and Chillingo Limited
(“Chillingo”), we may be required to pay an additional $572 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. In fiscal year 2010, in connection with our Playfish
acquisition, we deposited $100 million into an escrow account related to the contingent consideration. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, $25 million was paid to settle performance milestones earned through December 31, 2011 in
connection with the Playfish acquisition, and $50 million was reclassified and converted to available cash and cash equivalents. As of March 31, 2012, $25 million remains in restricted cash related to the Playfish performance milestones, which
we expect to pay in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. In addition, in connection with our PopCap acquisition, we acquired an additional $6 million of restricted cash which is held in an escrow account in the event that certain liabilities become
due. As these deposits are restricted in nature, they are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. As of March 31, 2012, the restricted cash of $31 million is included in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Fiscal 2011 Restructuring  In connection with our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures through June 2016 of approximately (1) $24 million in both fiscal years 2013 and 2014, (2) $17 million
in fiscal year 2015, (3) $3 million in fiscal year 2016, and (4) $20 million in fiscal year 2017. The actual cash expenditures are variable as they will be dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from certain games. 
Fiscal 2013 Restructuring  On May 7, 2012, we announced a plan of restructuring to align our cost structure with our ongoing digital transformation. Under this plan, we anticipate reducing our workforce and incurring other
costs. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by September 30, 2012.  In connection with this plan, we anticipate
incurring approximately $40 million in total costs, of which approximately $31 million will result in future cash expenditures. All of these charges are expected to occur during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. These costs will consist of
severance and other employee-related costs (approximately $23 million), license termination costs (approximately $11 million) and other costs (approximately $6 million).  Financing Arrangement  In July 2011, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal
amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations which pay interest semi-annually in arrears at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum on January 15 and July 15 of each year,
beginning on January 15, 2012 and will mature on July 15, 2016, unless earlier purchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes are convertible into cash and shares of our common stock based on an initial
conversion value of 31.5075 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of 
  55 


Table of Contents

approximately $31.74 per share). Upon conversion of the Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of each Note, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in shares of
our common stock. We used the net proceeds of the Notes to finance our acquisition of PopCap, which closed in August 2011.  Prior to
April 15, 2016, the Notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity
date of the Notes. The Notes do not contain any financial covenants.  The conversion rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments,
but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. Following certain corporate events described in the indenture governing the notes (the “Indenture”) that occur prior to the maturity date, the conversion rate will be increased
for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such corporate event in certain circumstances. The Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity, and no sinking fund is provided for the Notes. 
If we undergo a “fundamental change,” as defined in the Indenture, subject to certain conditions, holders may require us to purchase for cash
all or any portion of their Notes. The fundamental change purchase price will be 100 percent of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the fundamental change purchase date.
 The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the
trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare 100 percent of the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Notes to be due and payable. 
In addition, in July 2011, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the “Convertible Note Hedge”) with certain
counterparties to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. The Convertible Note Hedge, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, provide us with the option to acquire, on a net settlement
basis, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.74, which corresponds to the conversion price of the Notes and is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes. As of
March 31, 2012, we have not purchased any shares under the Convertible Note Hedge. We paid $107 million for the Convertible Note Hedge. 
Separately, we have also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third
parties warrants (the “Warrants”) to acquire, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments that are substantially the same as the anti-dilution provisions contained in the Notes, up to 19.9 million shares of our common stock (which
is also equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes), with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrants could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of
its common stock exceeds $41.14 on or prior to the expiration date of the Warrants. We received proceeds of $65 million from the sale of the Warrants.  See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. 
Financial Condition  We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating
requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to
strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional
capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 
  56 


Table of Contents




   As of March 31, 2012,
approximately $878 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and $57 million of our marketable equity securities were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United
States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. 
In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18
months. We completed our program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market since the commencement of the program, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. During the fiscal year 2012, we
repurchased and retired approximately 25 million shares of our common stock for approximately $471 million, net of commissions.  We have
a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more
offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes,
including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in
interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time.  Our ability to maintain sufficient
liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving
our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the
seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the “Risk Factors” section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. 
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments  Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments  The
products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (“independent artists” or “third-party developers”). We typically
advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are
generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. 
In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may
not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fußball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League)
(professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR, Tiger Woods and Augusta National (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players’ Association (professional hockey); National Football
League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties); and
LucasArts and Lucas Licensing (Star Wars: The Old Republic). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the
minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related
marketing commitments are included in the table below. 
  57 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes our unrecognized minimum contractual obligations as of March 31, 2012,
and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions):   




























 
  
Contractual Obligations
 
  
 
 

 Fiscal Year Ending March 31,
  
Leases(a)
 
  
Developer/LicensorCommitments
 
  
Marketing
 
  
Convertible 
NotesInterest(b)
 
  
OtherPurchaseObligations
 
  
Total
 

 2013
  
$
54
  
  
$
158
  
  
$
52
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
15
  
  
$
284
  

 2014
  
 
48
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
234
  

 2015
  
 
40
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
193
  

 2016
  
 
28
  
  
 
166
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
232
  

 2017
  
 
15
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
43
  

 Thereafter
  
 
26
  
  
 
239
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
342
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
211
  
  
$
810
  
  
$
263
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
1,328
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a) 

 See discussion on operating leases in the “Off-Balance Sheet Commitments” section below for additional information. Lease commitments have
not been reduced by minimum sub-lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of approximately $7 million due in the future under non-cancelable sub-leases. 
 


(b) 

 In addition to the interest payments reflected in the table above, we will be obligated to pay the $632.5 million principal amount of the 0.75%
Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 and any excess conversion value in shares of our common stock upon redemption after the maturity of the Notes on July 15, 2016 or earlier. See Note 11 for additional information related to our 0.75%
Convertible Senior Notes due 2016.  The amounts represented in the table above reflect our unrecognized minimum cash
obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the
dates the amounts are contractually due; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results.  In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2012, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $251 million, of
which approximately $43 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will
occur.  In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2012, primarily in connection with our PopCap, KlickNation,
and Chillingo acquisitions, we may be required to pay an additional $572 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. As of March 31, 2012, we have accrued $112 million
of contingent consideration on our Consolidated Balance Sheet representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration. 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS  Lease Commitments  As of March 31, 2012, we leased certain of our current
facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these
expenses on the remainder of our facilities.  Director Indemnity Agreements 
We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the
extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the Directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the Directors
are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors.  INFLATION 
We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years. 
  58 


Table of Contents




    


Item 7A:
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
MARKET RISK  We are exposed to
various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and market prices, which have experienced significant volatility in light of the global economic downturn. Market risk is the potential loss arising from
changes in market rates and market prices. We employ established policies and practices to manage these risks. Foreign currency option and forward contracts are used to hedge anticipated exposures or mitigate some existing exposures subject to
foreign exchange risk as discussed below. While we do not hedge our short-term investment portfolio, we protect our short-term investment portfolio against different market risks, including interest rate risk as discussed below. Our cash and cash
equivalents portfolio consists of highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and original or remaining maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase. We also do not currently hedge our market price risk relating to
our marketable equity securities and we do not enter into derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.  Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  Cash Flow Hedging
Activities.    From time to time, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk related to forecasted foreign-currency-denominated sales and expense transactions by purchasing foreign currency option contracts that
generally have maturities of 15 months or less. These transactions are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The derivative assets associated with our hedging activities are recorded at fair value in other current assets on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity. The gross
amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into net revenue or research and development expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted
transaction is recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income are deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes
in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event that the underlying forecasted transactions do not occur, or it becomes remote that they will occur,
within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the
reporting periods, all forecasted transactions occurred and, therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other income (expense), net. Our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the
impact of currency exchange rate movements in net revenue and research and development expenses. As of March 31, 2012, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $74 million in foreign currency and to sell approximately
$78 million of foreign currency. All of the foreign currency option contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2012 will mature in the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2011, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $40
million in foreign currency and to sell approximately $10 million of foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2012, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of $2 million and are included in other current assets. As
of March 31, 2011, the fair value of these outstanding foreign currency option contracts was immaterial and are included in other current assets.  Balance Sheet Hedging Activities.    We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and
liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and payables. The foreign currency forward contracts generally have a contractual term of three months or less and are transacted near month-end. Our foreign currency forward contracts are not
designated as hedging instruments, and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as other current assets or accrued and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses
resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses
on the underlying foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of 
  59 


Table of Contents

Operations. In certain cases, the amount of such gains and losses will significantly differ from the amount of gains and losses recognized on the underlying foreign-currency-denominated monetary
asset or liability, in which case our results will be impacted. As of March 31, 2012, we had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell approximately $242 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $197 million represented
contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $37 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars, and $8 million to sell foreign currency in exchange for British pound sterling. As of March 31, 2011, we
had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell approximately $187 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $140 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $31 million to purchase foreign
currency in exchange for U.S. dollars and $16 million to sell foreign currency in exchange for British pound sterling. The fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts was immaterial as of March 31, 2012 and 2011. 
We believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward and option contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks. While we believe
the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material, the disruption in the global financial markets has impacted some of the financial institutions with which we do business. Further, the continued sovereign debt crisis in Europe could lead to
increased counterparty risk with respect to financial institutions and other business partners, who are particularly vulnerable to the instability in certain European markets. A sustained decline in the financial stability of financial institutions
as a result of the disruption in the financial markets could affect our ability to secure credit-worthy counterparties for our foreign currency hedging programs.  Notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with
foreign currency fluctuations. As of March 31, 2012, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential declines in the fair value of the premiums on our foreign currency
option contracts used in cash flow hedging of less than $2 million in each scenario. As of March 31, 2012, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent or 15 percent would have resulted in potential losses on our
foreign currency forward contracts used in balance sheet hedging of $24 million and $37 million, respectively. This sensitivity analysis assumes a parallel adverse shift of all foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar; however, all
foreign currency exchange rates do not always move in such manner and actual results may differ materially.  Interest
Rate Risk  Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio. We
manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. However, because short-term investments mature relatively quickly and are required
to be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short-term investments is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term investments. Additionally, the contractual terms of the
investments do not permit the issuer to call, prepay or otherwise settle the investments at prices less than the stated par value. Our investments are held for purposes other than trading. Also, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our
short-term investment portfolio. 
  60 


Table of Contents




   As of March 31, 2012 and 2011,
our short-term investments were classified as available-for-sale securities and, consequently, were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated
other comprehensive income, net of tax, in stockholders’ equity. Our portfolio of short-term investments consisted of the following investment categories, summarized by fair value as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions): 
 












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 

 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
166
  
  
$
124
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
150
  
  
 
253
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
116
  
  
 
102
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
5
  
  
 
18
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term investments
  
$
437
  
  
$
497
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected
against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. At any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. The following table presents the hypothetical changes in the fair
value in our short-term investment portfolio as of March 31, 2012, arising from potential changes in interest rates. The modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of
plus or minus 50 basis points (“BPS”), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS.   
































(In millions)
  
Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an
Interest Rate Decreaseof X Basis Points
 
  
Fair Valueas
ofMarch 31,2012
 
  
Valuation of Securities Givenan Interest Rate Increase ofX Basis Points
 

  
(150 BPS)
 
  
(100 BPS)
 
  
(50 BPS)
 
  
  
50 BPS
 
  
100 BPS
 
  
150 BPS
 

 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
169
  
  
$
168
  
  
$
167
  
  
$
166
  
  
$
165
  
  
$
164
  
  
$
162
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
152
  
  
 
151
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
148
  
  
 
148
  
  
 
147
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
119
  
  
 
118
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
115
  
  
 
115
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
5
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term investments
  
$
445
  
  
$
442
  
  
$
439
  
  
$
437
  
  
$
434
  
  
$
432
  
  
$
429
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table presents the hypothetical changes in the fair value in our short-term investment portfolio as of
March 31, 2011, arising from selected potential changes in interest rates.   
































(In millions)
  
Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an
Interest Rate Decreaseof X Basis Points
 
  
Fair Valueas
ofMarch 31,2011
 
  
Valuation of Securities Givenan Interest Rate Increase ofX Basis Points
 

  
(150 BPS)
 
  
(100 BPS)
 
  
(50 BPS)
 
  
  
50 BPS
 
  
100 BPS
 
  
150 BPS
 

 Corporate bonds
  
$
258
  
  
$
257
  
  
$
255
  
  
$
253
  
  
$
252
  
  
$
250
  
  
$
249
  

 U.S. Treasury securities
  
 
126
  
  
 
125
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
122
  
  
 
121
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
104
  
  
 
103
  
  
 
103
  
  
 
102
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
100
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
18
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total short-term investments
  
$
506
  
  
$
503
  
  
$
500
  
  
$
497
  
  
$
494
  
  
$
491
  
  
$
488
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Market Price Risk  The fair value of our marketable equity securities in publicly-traded companies is subject to market price volatility and foreign currency risk for investments denominated in foreign currencies. As of
March 31, 2012 and 2011, our marketable equity securities were classified as available-for-sale securities and, consequently, were recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from
changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, in stockholders’ equity. The fair value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $119 million and
$161 million, respectively. 
  61 


Table of Contents
Our marketable equity securities have been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by volatility in the
public stock markets. At any time, a sharp change in market prices in our investments in marketable equity securities could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair
value of our marketable equity securities as of March 31, 2012, arising from changes in market prices of plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent.   
































 
  
Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageDecrease in Each Stock’sMarket
Price
 
  
Fair Valueas
ofMarch 31,2012
 
  
Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageIncrease in Each Stock’sMarket
Price
 

(In millions)
  
(75%)
 
  
(50%)
 
  
(25%)
 
  
  
25%
 
  
50%
 
  
75%
 

 Marketable equity securities
  
$
30
  
  
$
60
  
  
$
89
  
  
$
119
  
  
$
149
  
  
$
179
  
  
$
208
  
 The following table presents hypothetical changes in the fair value of our marketable equity securities as of
March 31, 2011, arising from changes in market prices of plus or minus 25 percent, 50 percent, and 75 percent.   
































 
  
Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageDecrease in Each Stock’sMarket
Price
 
  
Fair Valueas ofMarch 31,2011
 
  
Valuation of SecuritiesGiven an X PercentageIncrease in Each Stock’sMarket
Price
 

(In millions)
  
(75%)
 
  
(50%)
 
  
(25%)
 
  
  
25%
 
  
50%
 
  
75%
 

 Marketable equity securities
  
$
40
  
  
$
81
  
  
$
121
  
  
$
161
  
  
$
201
  
  
$
242
  
  
$
282
  

  62 


Table of Contents




  


Item 8:
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   








 
  
Page
 

 Consolidated Financial Statements of Electronic Arts Inc. and Subsidiaries:
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2012 and 2011
  
 
64
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010
  
 
65
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the Years Ended March 31,
 2012, 2011 and 2010
  
 
66
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010
  
 
67
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
68
  

 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
110
  




 Financial Statement Schedule:
  




 The following financial statement schedule of Electronic Arts Inc. and Subsidiaries for the years ended March 31, 2012, 2011
and 2010 is filed as part of this report and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Electronic Arts Inc. and Subsidiaries:
  







 Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 
116
  
 Other financial statement schedules have been omitted because the information called for in them is not required or has
already been included in either the Consolidated Financial Statements or the Notes thereto. 
  63 


Table of Contents
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS   












(In millions, except par value data)
  
March 31,2012
 
 
March 31,2011
 





 ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
1,293
  
 
$
1,579
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
437
  
 
 
497
  

 Marketable equity securities
  
 
119
  
 
 
161
  

 Receivables, net of allowances of $252 and $304, respectively
  
 
366
  
 
 
335
  

 Inventories
  
 
59
  
 
 
77
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
67
  
 
 
56
  

 Other current assets
  
 
268
  
 
 
327
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,609
  
 
 
3,032
  





 Property and equipment, net
  
 
568
  
 
 
513
  

 Goodwill
  
 
1,718
  
 
 
1,110
  

 Acquisition-related intangibles, net
  
 
369
  
 
 
144
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
42
  
 
 
49
  

 Other assets
  
 
185
  
 
 
80
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
5,491
  
 
$
4,928
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 








 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
215
  
 
$
228
  

 Accrued and other current liabilities
  
 
857
  
 
 
768
  

 Deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content)
  
 
1,048
  
 
 
1,005
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
2,120
  
 
 
2,001
  





 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2016, net
  
 
539
  
 
 
—
  

 Income tax obligations
  
 
189
  
 
 
192
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
8
  
 
 
37
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
177
  
 
 
134
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Total liabilities
  
 
3,033
  
 
 
2,364
  





 Commitments and contingencies (See Note 12)
  



 








 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Preferred stock, $0.01 par value. 10 shares authorized
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value. 1,000 shares authorized; 320 and 333 shares issued and outstanding, respectively
  
 
3
  
 
 
3
  

 Paid-in capital
  
 
2,359
  
 
 
2,495
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(77
) 
 
 
(153
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income
  
 
173
  
 
 
219
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
2,458
  
 
 
2,564
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
$
5,491
  
 
$
4,928
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  64 


Table of Contents




  
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

(In millions, except per share data)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 






 Net revenue:
  



 



 




 Product
  
$
3,415
  
 
$
3,181
  
 
$
3,332
  

 Service and other
  
 
728
  
 
 
408
  
 
 
322
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total net revenue
  
 
4,143
  
 
 
3,589
  
 
 
3,654
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Cost of revenue:
  



 



 




 Product
  
 
1,374
  
 
 
1,407
  
 
 
1,788
  

 Service and other
  
 
224
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
78
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cost of revenue
  
 
1,598
  
 
 
1,499
  
 
 
1,866
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Gross profit
  
 
2,545
  
 
 
2,090
  
 
 
1,788
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Operating expenses:
  



 



 




 Research and development
  
 
1,212
  
 
 
1,153
  
 
 
1,229
  

 Marketing and sales
  
 
853
  
 
 
747
  
 
 
730
  

 General and administrative
  
 
375
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
320
  

 Acquisition-related contingent consideration
  
 
11
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
2
  

 Amortization of intangibles
  
 
43
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
53
  

 Restructuring and other charges
  
 
16
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
140
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Total operating expenses
  
 
2,510
  
 
 
2,402
  
 
 
2,474
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Operating income (loss)
  
 
35
  
 
 
(312
) 
 
 
(686
) 

 Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
(26
) 

 Interest and other income (expense), net
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before benefit from income taxes
  
 
18
  
 
 
(279
) 
 
 
(706
) 

 Benefit from income taxes
  
 
(58
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income (loss)
  
$
76
  
 
$
(276
) 
 
$
(677
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income (loss) per share:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.84
) 
 
$
(2.08
) 

 Diluted
  
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.84
) 
 
$
(2.08
) 

 Number of shares used in computation:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
331
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
325
  

 Diluted
  
 
336
  
 
 
330
  
 
 
325
  
 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  65 


Table of Contents
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)  (In millions, share data in thousands)   




























 
  
   Common Stock
 
  
Paid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
(AccumulatedDeficit)
 
 
AccumulatedOther
ComprehensiveIncome
 
 
TotalStockholders’
Equity
 

  
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
  
 
 
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2009
  
 
322,842
  
 
$
3
  
  
$
2,142
  
 
$
800
  
 
$
189
  
 
$
3,134
  


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(677
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(677
) 

 Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
(54
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for losses realized on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
21
  

 Change in unrealized losses on derivative instruments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for losses realized on derivative instruments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
73
  
 
 
73
  


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive loss
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(638
) 


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
6,745
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
21
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
187
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
187
  

 Tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
14
  

 Equity issued in connection with acquisition
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
11
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2010
  
 
329,587
  
 
 
3
  
  
 
2,375
  
 
 
123
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
2,729
  


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(276
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(276
) 

 Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for gains realized on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
(28
) 

 Change in unrealized losses on derivative instruments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(7
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for losses realized on derivative instruments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
25
  


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive loss
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
(285
) 


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
6,081
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
4
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4
  

 Repurchase and retirement of common stock
  
 
(3,104
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(58
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(58
) 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
176
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
176
  

 Tax costs from exercise of stock options
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2011
  
 
332,564
  
 
 
3
  
  
 
2,495
  
 
 
(153
) 
 
 
219
  
 
 
2,564
  


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
76
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
76
  

 Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
(40
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for gains realized on available-for-sale securities, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Change in unrealized losses on derivative instruments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for losses realized on derivative instruments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
4
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(4
) 


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
  



 



  



 



 



 
 
30
  


  



 



  



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Issuance of common stock
  
 
7,850
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
12
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12
  

 Equity issued in connection with acquisition
  
 
4,356
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
87
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
87
  

 Equity value of convertible note issuance, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
105
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
105
  

 Purchase of convertible note hedge
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(107
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(107
) 

 Sale of common stock warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
65
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
65
  

 Repurchase and retirement of common stock
  
 
(24,547
) 
 
 
—
  
  
 
(471
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(471
) 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
170
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
170
  

 Tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
3
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2012
  
 
320,223
  
 
$
3
  
  
$
2,359
  
 
$
(77
) 
 
$
173
  
 
$
2,458
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  66 


Table of Contents




  
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

(In millions)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
76
  
 
$
(276
) 
 
$
(677
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation, amortization and accretion, net
  
 
216
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
192
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
170
  
 
 
176
  
 
 
187
  

 Acquisition-related contingent consideration
  
 
11
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
2
  

 Net losses (gains) on investments and sale of property and equipment
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
22
  

 Other non-cash restructuring charges
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
39
  

 Change in assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Receivables, net
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
(122
) 
 
 
(66
) 

 Inventories
  
 
21
  
 
 
25
  
 
 
123
  

 Other assets
  
 
(101
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
18
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
(50
) 
 
 
114
  
 
 
(57
) 

 Accrued and other liabilities
  
 
13
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(138
) 

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
(90
) 
 
 
24
  
 
 
2
  

 Deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content)
  
 
43
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
505
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
277
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
152
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Capital expenditures
  
 
(172
) 
 
 
(59
) 
 
 
(72
) 

 Purchase of headquarters facilities
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(233
) 

 Proceeds from sale of property
  
 
26
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchase of short-term investments
  
 
(468
) 
 
 
(514
) 
 
 
(611
) 

 Proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments
  
 
526
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
710
  

 Proceeds from sale of marketable equity securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
132
  
 
 
17
  

 Acquisition of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired
  
 
(676
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
(283
) 

 Acquisition-related restricted cash
  
 
75
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(100
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(689
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(572
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  



 



 




 Proceeds from borrowings on convertible senior notes, net of issuance costs
  
 
617
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Purchase of convertible note hedge
  
 
(107
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from issuance of warrants
  
 
65
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
  
 
57
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
39
  

 Excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation
  
 
4
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
14
  

 Repurchase and retirement of common stock
  
 
(471
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
—
  

 Acquisition-related contingent consideration payment
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
140
  
 
 
(23
) 
 
 
53
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
24
  
 
 
19
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(286
) 
 
 
306
  
 
 
(348
) 

 Beginning cash and cash equivalents
  
 
1,579
  
 
 
1,273
  
 
 
1,621
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending cash and cash equivalents
  
$
1,293
  
 
$
1,579
  
 
$
1,273
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental cash flow information:
  



 



 




 Cash paid (refunded) during the year for income taxes, net
  
$
(4
) 
 
$
21
  
 
$
(34
) 

 Cash paid during the year for interest
  
$
2
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  






 Non-cash investing activities:
  



 



 




 Change in unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of taxes
  
$
(40
) 
 
$
(4
) 
 
$
(54
) 

 Equity issued in connection with acquisition
  
$
87
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
11
  
 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  67 


Table of Contents
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  (1)  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  We
develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii), personal
computers, mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), and the Internet. Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through
multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. We have generated substantial growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams
(such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless platform. Some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property (e.g., Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need
for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies), and some of our games are based on content that we license from others (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL, and Star Wars: The Old Republic). Our goal is to turn our core intellectual
properties into year-round businesses available on a range of platforms. Our products and services may be purchased through physical and online retailers, platform providers such as console manufacturers and mobile carriers via digital downloads, as
well as directly through our own distribution platform, including online portals such as Origin and Play4Free.  A summary of our significant
accounting policies applied in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements follows:  Consolidation
 The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Electronic Arts Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  Fiscal Year 
Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years
ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 each contained 52 weeks and ended on March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, respectively. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 contained 53 weeks and ended on April 3,
2010. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month-end. 
Reclassifications 
In fiscal year 2012, service revenue exceeded 10 percent of our total net revenue. Accordingly, we have disaggregated our fiscal year 2012 net revenue to
present both product revenue and service and other revenue as separate components of total net revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. The presentation of net revenue in fiscal year 2011 and 2010 has been similarly disaggregated to
conform to the fiscal year 2012 presentation.  Use of Estimates 
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires us to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes. Such estimates include sales returns and allowances, provisions for doubtful accounts, accrued liabilities, service
period for deferred net revenue, income taxes, losses on royalty commitments, estimates regarding the recoverability of prepaid royalties, inventories, long-lived assets, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, certain
estimates related to the measurement and recognition of costs resulting from our share-based payment awards, deferred income tax assets and associated valuation allowance as well as estimates used in our goodwill, short-term investments, and
marketable equity securities impairment tests. These estimates generally involve complex issues and require us to make judgments, 
  68 


Table of Contents




   
involve analysis of historical and future trends, can require extended periods of time to resolve, and are subject to change from period to period. In all cases, actual results could differ
materially from our estimates.  Cash, Cash Equivalents, Short-Term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities
 Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and original or remaining maturities of
three months or less at the time of purchase.  Short-term investments consist of securities with original or remaining maturities of greater
than three months at the time of purchase and are accounted for as available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value. Short-term investments are available for use in current operations or other activities such as capital expenditures and
business combinations.  Marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly-traded companies and are accounted for
as available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value.  Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable
equity securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold, (2) the security has matured, or (3) we determine that the fair
value of the security has declined below its adjusted cost basis and the decline is other-than-temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification
method and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income (expense), net, and gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is
other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. 
Our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are evaluated for impairment quarterly. We consider various factors in determining whether we
should recognize an impairment charge, including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery
period, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms
impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. If we conclude that an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired,
we will recognize an impairment charge at that time in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.  Inventories
 Inventories consist of materials (including manufacturing royalties paid to console manufacturers), labor and freight-in and are
stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market value. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our
products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower
cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established basis.  Property and Equipment, Net  Property and equipment, net, are stated at cost.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the following useful lives:   






Buildings
  
20 to 25 years

Computer equipment and software
  
3 to 5 years

Furniture and equipment
  
3 to 5 years

Leasehold improvements
  
Lesser of the lease term or the estimated useful lives of the improvements, generally 1 to 10 years

  69 


Table of Contents
We capitalize costs associated with customized internal-use software systems that have reached the
application development stage and meet recoverability tests. Such capitalized costs include external direct costs utilized in developing or obtaining the applications and payroll and payroll-related expenses for employees, who are directly
associated with the development of the applications. Capitalization of such costs begins when the preliminary project stage is complete and ceases at the point in which the project is substantially complete and is ready for its intended purpose. The
net book value of capitalized costs associated with internal-use software was $77 million and $50 million as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Once the internal-use software is ready for its intended use, the assets are depreciated on a
straight-line basis over each asset’s estimated useful life, which is generally three years.  Acquisition-Related
Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets  We record acquisition-related intangible assets that have finite useful lives, such as
developed and core technology, in connection with business combinations. We amortize the cost of acquisition-related intangible assets on a straight-line basis over the lesser of their estimated useful lives or the agreement terms, typically from
two to fourteen years. We evaluate acquisition-related intangibles and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets
is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. This includes assumptions about future prospects for the business that the asset relates to and typically
involves computations of the estimated future cash flows to be generated by these businesses. Based on these judgments and assumptions, we determine whether we need to take an impairment charge to reduce the value of the asset stated on our
Consolidated Balance Sheets to reflect its estimated fair value. Judgments and assumptions about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to,
significant negative industry or economic trends, significant changes in the manner of our use of the assets or the strategy of our overall business and significant under-performance relative to projected future operating results. When we consider
such assets to be impaired, the amount of impairment we recognize is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. We recognized $12 million, $14 million, and $39 million in impairment charges in fiscal
years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The charges for fiscal year 2012 are included in cost of product revenue and cost of service and other revenue in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The charges for fiscal year 2011 are included in
restructuring and other charges and research and development in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The charges for fiscal year 2010 are included in restructuring and other charges in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Goodwill  On
January 1, 2012, we adopted ASU 2011-08, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. ASU 2011-08 allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not
that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity concludes it is more likely than not that the fair value of a
reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, it need not perform the two-step impairment test. If based on that assessment, we believe it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units is less than its carrying value, a two-step
goodwill impairment test is required to be performed. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair
value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which discrete financial information is available
and segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies’ data, the income approach, which utilizes
discounted cash flows, or a combination thereof.  During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we completed our annual
goodwill impairment testing in the fourth quarter of each year and found no indicators of impairment of our recorded goodwill. We did not recognize an impairment charge on goodwill in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010. 
Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities 
Taxes assessed by a government authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue transactions between us and our customers are
presented on a net basis in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  70 


Table of Contents




   Concentration of
Credit Risk  We extend credit to various companies in the retail and mass merchandising industries. Collection of trade receivables may
be affected by changes in economic or other industry conditions and may, accordingly, impact our overall credit risk. Although we generally do not require collateral, we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain reserves for
potential credit losses. Invoices are aged based on contractual terms with our customers. The provision for doubtful accounts is recorded as a charge to operating expense when a potential loss is identified. Losses are written off against the
allowance when the receivable is determined to be uncollectible.  Short-term investments are placed with high quality financial institutions
or in short-duration, investment-grade securities. We limit the amount of credit exposure in any one financial institution or type of investment instrument.  Revenue Recognition  We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth
in FASB ASC 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition, and Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, as revised by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition. We classify our
revenue as either Product revenue or Service and other revenue.  Product revenue.    Our product revenue
includes revenue associated with the sale of game software, whether delivered via a disc (i.e., packaged goods) or via the Internet (i.e., full-game download) and that do not require our continuous hosting support, as well as licensing
of game software to third-parties. This excludes game software from our massively multi-player online (“MMO”) games, which is included in service and other revenue as such game software requires continuous hosting support. Product revenue
also includes mobile games that do not have an online service component and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors’ items.  Service and other revenue.    Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from games or related content that requires our hosting support to provide substantial
gaming experience and time-based subscriptions. This includes (1) subscriptions for our Pogo-branded online game services (2) MMO games (both game and subscription sales), (3) entitlements to content that are delivered through hosting
services (e.g., micro-transactions for Internet-based, social network and mobile games which includes “freemium” games), and (4) allocated service revenue from sales of online-enable packaged goods with an online service
component (i.e., “matchmaking” services). Our other revenue includes non-software licensing and advertising revenue.  We
evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met:   


 
•
 
 Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products must be
present.   


 
•
 
 Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the
customer. For services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided.   


 
•
 
 Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or
determinable.   


 
•
 
 Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the
creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when
collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection).  Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been
satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. Changes to any of these assumptions or management judgments, or changes to the elements in
the 
  71 


Table of Contents

software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. We reduce revenue for estimated future returns, price protection,
and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners.  Multiple-Element Arrangements 
We enter into multiple-element revenue arrangements in which we may provide a combination of game software, updates or additional content and online game
services. For some software products we may provide updates or additional content (“digital content”) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell this digital
content for an additional fee. In other transactions, we may have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee (i.e., updates on a when-and-if-available basis) or we may offer an
online “matchmaking” service that permits consumers to play against each other via the Internet. Collectively, we refer to these as software-related offerings. In those situations where we do not require an additional fee for the
software-related offerings, we account for the sale of the software product and software-related offerings as a “bundled” sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and relating offerings for one
combined price. Generally we do not have vendor specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) for the software-related offerings and thus, we defer net revenue from sales of these games and recognize the revenue from the bundled sales games over
the period the offering will be provided (the “offering period”). If the period is not defined, we recognize revenue over the estimated offering period, which is generally estimated to be six months, beginning in the month after delivery.
Our MMO games have an estimated service period of eighteen months, beginning in the month after delivery. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional
fee can be difficult. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage.  For our software and software-related multiple element arrangements (i.e., software game bundled with software related offerings), we must make assumptions and judgments in order to
(1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether the undelivered elements are essential to the functionality of the delivered elements, (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and
(4) allocate the total price among the various elements. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a
particular period.  In some of our multiple element arrangements, we sell tangible products with software and/or software-related offerings.
These tangible products are generally either peripherals or ancillary collectors’ items. Prior to April 3, 2011, because either the software or other elements sold with the tangible products were essential to the functionality of the
tangible product and/or we did not have VSOE for the tangible product, we did not separately account for the tangible product. On April 3, 2011, we adopted FASB ASU 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605): Multiple-Deliverable Revenue
Arrangements and ASU 2009-14, Software (Topic 985): Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements. The new accounting principles establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable and
require the application of the relative selling price method to allocate the arrangement consideration to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement that includes tangible products.  For our multiple element arrangements that include tangible products entered into after April 2, 2011, revenue is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative
selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a
group and then allocated to each software deliverable in accordance with ASC 985-605.  We determine the selling price for a tangible product
deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE (i.e., the price we charge when the tangible product is sold separately) if available, third-party evidence (“TPE”) of fair value (i.e., the price charged by
others for similar tangible products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price (“BESP”) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including,
but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes, sales channels and other factors. 
  72 


Table of Contents




   As the result of the adoption of these
standards, for the year ended March 31, 2012, we recognized $23 million more revenue than would have been recognized under previous accounting standards.  Sales Returns and Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves  We estimate potential future
product returns, price protection and stock-balancing programs related to packaged-goods revenue. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and
retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our
channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods.  Similarly, significant judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We analyze customer concentrations, customer credit-worthiness, current economic
trends, and historical experience when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts.  Royalties and
Licenses  Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as
prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected
net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums,. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is
inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software
units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the title’s release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is
particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing
of royalty expense we recognize.  Each quarter, we evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any
unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense.
Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based
commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned (i.e., cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual
property are terminated.  Advertising Costs  We generally expense advertising costs as incurred, except for production costs associated with media campaigns, which are recognized as prepaid assets (to the extent paid in advance) and expensed at the
first run of the advertisement. Cooperative advertising costs are recognized when incurred and are included in marketing and sales expense if there is a separate identifiable benefit for which we can reasonably estimate the fair value of the benefit
identified. Otherwise, they are recognized as a reduction of revenue and are generally accrued when revenue is recognized. We then reimburse the channel partner when qualifying claims are submitted. 
We are also reimbursed by our vendors for certain advertising costs incurred by us that benefit our vendors. Such amounts are recognized as a reduction
of marketing and sales expense if the advertising (1) is specific to the vendor, (2) represents an identifiable benefit to us, and (3) represents an incremental cost to us. Otherwise, vendor reimbursements are recognized as a
reduction of cost of revenue as the related revenue is recognized. Vendor reimbursements of advertising costs of $39 million, $31 million, and $39 million reduced marketing and sales expense for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010, respectively. For the fiscal years ended 
  73 


Table of Contents

March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, advertising expense, net of vendor reimbursements, totaled approximately $321 million, $312 million, and $326 million, respectively. 
Software Development Costs  Research and development costs, which consist primarily of software development costs, are expensed as incurred. We are required to capitalize software development costs incurred for computer software to
be sold, leased or otherwise marketed after technological feasibility of the software is established or for development costs that have alternative future uses. Under our current practice of developing new products, the technological feasibility of
the underlying software is not established until substantially all product development and testing is complete, which generally includes the development of a working model. The software development costs that have been capitalized to date have been
insignificant.  Stock-Based Compensation  We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant. We recognize compensation costs for stock-based payment awards to employees based on the grant-date fair
value using a straight-line approach over the service period for which such awards are expected to vest.  We determine the fair value of our
share-based payment awards as follows:   


 
•
 
 Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock, and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units. The fair value of restricted stock units, restricted
stock, and performance-based restricted stock units (other than market-based restricted stock units) is determined based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of grant. Performance-based restricted stock units include grants
made (1) to certain members of executive management primarily granted in fiscal year 2008 and (2) in connection with certain acquisitions.   


 
•
 
 Market-Based Restricted Stock Units. Market-based restricted stock units consist of grants of performance-based restricted stock units to
certain members of executive management (referred to herein as “market-based restricted stock units”). The fair value of our market-based restricted stock units is determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Key assumptions for the
Monte-Carlo simulation model are the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividends and correlation coefficient.   


 
•
 
 Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our equity
incentive plans and our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), respectively, is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model based on the multiple-award valuation method. Key assumptions of the Black-Scholes valuation model are
the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividends.  The determination of the fair value
of market-based restricted stock units, stock options and ESPP is affected by assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables. Generally, our assumptions are based on historical information and judgment is required to determine if historical
trends may be indicators of future outcomes.  Employee stock-based compensation expense is calculated based on awards ultimately expected to
vest and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates and an adjustment to stock-based compensation expense will be recognized at that time.
 Foreign Currency Translation  For each of our foreign operating subsidiaries, the functional currency is generally its local currency. Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars using month-end
exchange rates, and revenue and expenses are translated into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The effects of foreign currency translation adjustments are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
stockholders’ equity.  Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are a result of the effect of exchange rate changes on transactions
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. Net foreign currency transaction gains (losses) of $(29) million, $12 million, and $(19) million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are included
in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  74 


Table of Contents




   Impact of
Recently Issued Accounting Standards  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220):
Presentation of Comprehensive Income. ASU 2011-05 requires one of two alternatives for presenting comprehensive income and eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components as a part of the Consolidated Statements of
Stockholders’ Equity. Additionally, ASU 2011-05 requires presentation on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where
the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The requirement related to the reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to net income was deferred in December 2011, as a result of the
issuance of ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update 2011-05 (Topic 220). The amendments in ASU
2011-05, as amended by ASU 2011-12, do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. ASU 2011-05, as amended by ASU 2011-12 is effective for
fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied retrospectively. We will adopt ASU 2011-05 during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2011-05, as
amended by ASU 2011-12 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11,
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities, which creates new disclosure requirements about the nature of an entity’s rights of offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments and derivative
instruments. The disclosure requirements are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein, with retrospective application required. The new disclosures are designed to make financial
statements that are prepared under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles more comparable to those prepared under International Financial Reporting Standards. We are evaluating the impact of ASU 2011-11 on our Consolidated Financial
Statements.  (2)  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  Fair value is the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining fair
value, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. We measure certain financial and nonfinancial assets and
liabilities at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis.  Fair Value Hierarchy 
The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value are as follows: 
 


 
•
 
 Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 2. Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted
prices in markets with insufficient volume or infrequent transactions (less active markets), or model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated with observable market data
for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.   


 
•
 
 Level 3. Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of the fair value of assets or liabilities.
 On January 1, 2012, we adopted the FASB Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2011-04, Fair Value
Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The guidance limits the highest-and-best-use measure to nonfinancial assets, permits certain financial assets and
liabilities with offsetting positions in market or counterparty credit risks to be measured at a net basis, and provides guidance on the applicability of premiums and discounts. Additionally, the guidance expands the disclosures on Level 3
inputs by requiring quantitative disclosure of the unobservable inputs and assumptions, as well as description of the valuation processes and the sensitivity of the fair value to changes in unobservable inputs. Adoption of this new guidance did
not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  75 


Table of Contents
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, our assets and liabilities that were measured and recorded at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows (in
millions):   





Unobservable



Unobservable



Unobservable



Unobservable


Unobservable

 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at ReportingDate Using
 
 
 

 
 
As ofMarch 
31,2012 
 
 
QuotedPrices inActiveMarkets forIdenticalFinancialInstruments
 
 
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs
 
 
 

 
 
 
(Level 1)
 
 
(Level 2)
 
 
(Level 3)
 
 

Balance Sheet Classification

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 


 Money market funds
 
$
490
  
 
$
490
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
Cash equivalents

 Available-for-sale securities:
 



 



 



 



 


 U.S. Treasury securities
 
 
170
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments and cash equivalents

 Corporate bonds
 
 
150
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments

 Marketable equity securities
 
 
119
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
Marketable equity securities

 U.S. agency securities
 
 
116
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
116
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments

 Commercial paper
 
 
16
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
16
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments and cash equivalents

 Deferred compensation plan assets(a)
 
 
11
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
Other assets

 Foreign currency derivatives
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
Other current assets


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Total assets at fair value
 
$
1,074
  
 
$
790
  
 
$
284
  
 
$
—
  
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Liabilities
 



 



 



 



 


 Contingent consideration(b)
 
$
112
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
112
  
 
Accrued and other current liabilities and other liabilities


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Total liabilities at fair value
 
$
112
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
112
  
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 







 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements UsingSignificant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ContingentConsideration
 
 
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2011
   
 
$
51
  
 


 Additions
   
 
 
100
  
 


 Change in fair value(c)

  
 
 
11
  
 


 Payments (d)

  
 
 
(25
) 
 


 Reclassification(e)

  
 
 
(25
) 
 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 


 Balance as of March 31, 2012
   
 
$
112
  
 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 


  76 


Table of Contents




    





000000000000



000000000000



000000000000



000000000000


000000000000

 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at ReportingDate Using
 
 
 

 
 
As ofMarch 
31,2011 
 
 
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets
forIdenticalFinancialInstruments
 
 
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs
 
 
 

 
 
 
(Level 1)
 
 
(Level 2)
 
 
(Level 3)
 
 

Balance Sheet Classification

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 


 Money market funds
 
$
774
  
 
$
774
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
Cash equivalents

 Available-for-sale securities:
 



 



 



 



 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
253
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments

 Marketable equity securities
 
 
161
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
Marketable equity securities

 U.S. Treasury securities
 
 
129
  
 
 
129
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 Short-term investments and
cash equivalents

 U.S. agency securities
 
 
102
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments

 Commercial paper
 
 
31
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
—
  
 
Short-term investments and cash equivalents

 Deferred compensation plan assets (a)
 
 
12
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
Other assets


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Total assets at fair value
 
$
1,462
  
 
$
1,076
  
 
$
386
  
 
$
—
  
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Liability
 



 



 



 



 


 Contingent consideration (b)
 
$
51
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
51
  
 
Accrued and other current liabilities and other liabilities


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 


 Total liability at fair value
 
$
51
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
51
  
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 







 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements UsingSignificant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ContingentConsideration

 
 
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2010
   
 
$
65
  
 


 Additions
   
 
 
3
  
 


 Change in fair value (c)

  
 
 
(17
) 
 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 


 Balance as of March 31, 2011
   
 
$
51
  
 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 

  


(a)
 The deferred compensation plan assets consist of various mutual funds.
  


(b) 
 The contingent consideration as of
March 31, 2012 represents the estimated fair value of the additional variable cash consideration payable primarily in connection with our acquisitions of PopCap Games, Inc. (“PopCap”), KlickNation Corporation
(“KlickNation”), and Chillingo Limited (“Chillingo”) that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones. The contingent consideration as of March 31, 2011 represents the estimated fair value of the
additional variable cash consideration payable primarily in connection with our acquisitions of Playfish Limited (“Playfish”) and Chillingo that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones. We estimated the fair
value of the acquisition-related contingent consideration payable using probability-weighted discounted cash flow models, and applied a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participant’s view of the risk associated with the
obligations. During the fiscal year 2012, the discount rate used had a weighted average of 12 percent. During the fiscal year 2011, the discount rate used had a weighted average of 12 percent. The significant unobservable input used in the fair
value measurement of the acquisition-related contingent consideration payable are forecasted earnings. Significant changes in forecasted earnings would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. At March 31, 2012 and
2011, the fair market value of acquisition-related contingent consideration totaled $112 million and $51 million, respectively, compared to a maximum potential payout of $572 million and $110 million, respectively.
  


(c)

 The change in fair value is reported as acquisition-related contingent consideration in our
Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  77 


Table of Contents


(d)

 During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we made a payment of $25 million to settle certain
performance milestones achieved through December 31, 2011 in connection with our acquisition of Playfish. See Note 5 and Note 9 for additional information regarding the Playfish acquisition. 
 


(e)

 During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we reclassified $25 million of contingent
consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish to other current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as the contingency was settled. This amount is no longer measured at fair value on a recurring basis and is expected to be
paid during the second quarter of fiscal 2013. See Note 5 and Note 9 for additional information regarding the Playfish acquisition.  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis  During fiscal
year 2012, our assets that were measured and recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and the related impairments on those assets were as follows (in millions):   
























 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using
 
 
 
 

 
 
Net CarryingValue as ofMarch 31, 2012
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets
 
 
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs

 
 
Total Impairments 
forthe Fiscal Year EndedMarch 31, 2012
 

 
 
 
(Level 1)
 
 
(Level 2)
 
 
(Level 3)
 
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 




 Acqusition-related intangible assets
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
12
  


 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total impairments recorded for non-recurring measurements on assets held as of March 31, 2012
     
 



 



 



 
$
12
  


 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 During fiscal year 2012, we became aware of facts and circumstances that indicated that the carrying value of some of our
acquisition-related intangible assets were not recoverable. This impairment is included in cost of product revenue on our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  During fiscal year 2011, our assets that were measured and recorded at fair value on a nonrecurring basis and the related impairments on those assets were as follows (in millions): 
 
























 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements Using
 
 
 
 

 
 
Net CarryingValue as ofMarch 31, 2011
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets
 
 
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
 
 
SignificantUnobservableInputs
 
 
Total Impairments forthe Fiscal Year EndedMarch 31, 2011
 

 
 
 
(Level 1)
 
 
(Level 2)
 
 
(Level 3)
 
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 




 Royalty-based asset
 
$
10
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
10
  
 
$
13
  


 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total impairments recorded for non-recurring measurements on assets held as of March 31, 2011
     
 



 



 



 
$
13
  


 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 During fiscal year 2011, we became aware of facts and circumstances that indicated that the carrying value of one of our
royalty-based assets was not recoverable. This impairment is included in research and development expenses on our Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
  78 


Table of Contents




   (3)  FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS  Cash and Cash Equivalents  As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, our cash and cash equivalents were $1,293 million and $1,579 million, respectively. Cash equivalents were valued at their carrying amounts as they approximate fair
value due to the short maturities of theses financial instruments.  Short-Term Investments 
Short-term investments consisted of the following as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions): 
 




































 
  
As of March 31, 2012
 
  
As of March 31, 2011
 

 
  
Cost
orAmortizedCost
 
  
Gross Unrealized
 
  
FairValue
 
  
Cost
orAmortizedCost
 
  
Gross Unrealized
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
  
Gains
 
  
Losses
 
  
  
  
Gains
 
  
Losses
 
  

 U.S. Treasury securities
  
$
166
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
166
  
  
$
124
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
124
  

 Corporate bonds
  
 
149
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
150
  
  
 
252
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
253
  

 U.S. agency securities
  
 
116
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
102
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
102
  

 Commercial paper
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
18
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Short-term investments
  
$
436
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
437
  
  
$
496
  
  
$
1
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
497
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We evaluate our investments for impairment quarterly. Factors considered in the review of investments with an unrealized
loss include the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the investees, our intent to sell the investments, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before
its anticipated recovery. Based on our review, we did not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired as of March 31, 2012 and 2011.  The following table summarizes the amortized cost and fair value of our short-term investments, classified by stated maturity as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions): 
 




















 
  
As of March 31, 2012
 
  
As of March 31, 2011
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 Short-term investments
  



  



  



  




 Due in 1 year or less
  
$
207
  
  
$
207
  
  
$
214
  
  
$
214
  

 Due in 1-2 years
  
 
123
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
156
  
  
 
157
  

 Due in 2-3 years
  
 
106
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
126
  
  
 
126
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Short-term investments
  
$
436
  
  
$
437
  
  
$
496
  
  
$
497
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Marketable Equity Securities  Our investments in marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly-traded companies and are accounted for as available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value.
Unrealized gains and losses are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity, net of tax, until either the security is sold or we determine that the decline in the fair value of a security to a level
below its adjusted cost basis is other-than-temporary. We evaluate these investments for impairment quarterly. If we conclude that an investment is other-than-temporarily impaired, we will recognize an impairment charge at that time in our
Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
  79 


Table of Contents
Marketable equity securities consisted of the following as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 (in millions):
  




















 
  
AdjustedCost
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
  
Fair    Value    
 

 As of March 31, 2012
  
$
32
  
  
$
87
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
119
  

 As of March 31, 2011
  
$
32
  
  
$
129
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
161
  
 In April 2007, we expanded our commercial agreements with, and made strategic equity investments in, Neowiz Corporation
and a related online gaming company, Neowiz Games. We refer to Neowiz Corporation and Neowiz Games collectively as “Neowiz.” Based in Korea, Neowiz is an online media and gaming company with which we partnered in 2006 to launch EA
SPORTS FIFA Online in Korea. We purchased 15 percent of the then-outstanding common shares (representing 15 percent of the voting rights at that time) of Neowiz Corporation and 15 percent of the then-outstanding common shares (representing 15
percent of the voting rights at the time) of Neowiz Games, for approximately $83 million. In addition, we purchased preferred shares of Neowiz, which were classified as other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2010. During
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we exercised our option to convert all of the preferred shares to common shares. As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, we had an adjusted cost basis in our investment in Neowiz of $32 million due to impairments
on the investment recognized in prior years. We did not recognize any impairment charges on our Neowiz common shares during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  In February 2005, we purchased approximately 19.9 percent of the then-outstanding ordinary shares (representing approximately 18 percent of the voting rights at the time) of Ubisoft Entertainment
(“Ubisoft”) for $91 million. As of March 31, 2010, we owned approximately 15 percent of the outstanding shares of Ubisoft (representing approximately 13 percent of the voting rights). During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011,
we sold our investment in Ubisoft and received proceeds of $121 million and realized a gain of $28 million, net of costs to sell. The realized gain is included in gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, in our Consolidated Statements of
Operations.  In May 2007, we entered into a licensing agreement with, and made a strategic equity investment in The9 Limited, a leading online
game operator in China. We purchased approximately 15 percent of the outstanding common shares (representing 15 percent of the voting rights at that time) of The9 for approximately $167 million. We began selling this investment in fiscal year 2010
and sold the remaining portion in fiscal year 2011. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we received proceeds of $11 million and $17 million, respectively, from the sale of this investment and realized losses of $3 million and
less than $1 million, respectively. Due to various factors, including but not limited to, the extent and duration during which the market prices of these securities had been below adjusted cost and our intent to hold certain securities, we
recognized impairment charges attributed to unrealized losses on our investment in The9 that we concluded were other-than-temporary in the amount of $2 million and $26 million during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
The realized losses and impairment charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 are included in gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
0.75% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2016  The following table summarizes the carrying value and fair value of our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 as of March 31, 2012 (in millions): 
 












 
  
As of March 31, 2012
 

 
  
CarryingValue
 
  
FairValue
 

 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016
  
$
539
  
  
$
584
  
 The carrying value of the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 excludes the fair value of the equity conversion
feature, which was classified as equity upon issuance, while the fair value is based on quoted market prices for the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, which includes the equity conversion feature. The fair value of the 0.75% Convertible
Senior Notes due 2016 is classified as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. See Note 11 for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. 
  80 


Table of Contents




   (4)  DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS  The assets or liabilities associated with our derivative instruments and hedging activities are recorded at fair value in
other current assets or accrued and other current liabilities, respectively, on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As discussed below, the accounting for gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value depends on the use of the derivative
instrument and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting.  We transact business in various foreign currencies and have
significant international sales and expenses denominated in foreign currencies, subjecting us to foreign currency risk. We purchase foreign currency option contracts, generally with maturities of 15 months or less, to reduce the volatility of cash
flows primarily related to forecasted revenue and expenses denominated in certain foreign currencies. Our cash flow risks are primarily related to fluctuations in the Euro, British pound sterling and Canadian dollar. In addition, we utilize foreign
currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign exchange rate risk associated with foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily intercompany receivables and payables. The foreign currency forward contracts generally have a
contractual term of approximately three months or less and are transacted near month-end. At each quarter-end, the fair value of the foreign currency forward contracts generally is not significant. We do not use foreign currency option or foreign
currency forward contracts for speculative or trading purposes.  Cash Flow Hedging Activities 
Our foreign currency option contracts are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The effectiveness of the cash flow hedge contracts, including time
value, is assessed monthly using regression analysis, as well as other timing and probability criteria. To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedges and must be highly
effective in offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions. The effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity. The gross amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into net revenue or research and development
expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted transaction is recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income are deemed to be ineffective, the
ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other income (expense), net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. In the event that the underlying forecasted transactions
do not occur, or it becomes remote that they will occur, within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income (expense), net,
in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the reporting periods, all forecasted transactions occurred and, therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other income (expense), net. As of March 31,
2012, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $74 million in foreign currency and to sell approximately $78 million of foreign currency. All of the foreign currency option contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2012
will mature in the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2011, we had foreign currency option contracts to purchase approximately $40 million in foreign currency and to sell approximately $10 million of foreign currencies. 
As of March 31, 2012, these foreign currency option contracts outstanding had a total fair value of $2 million and are included in other current
assets. As of March 31, 2011, the fair value of these outstanding foreign currency option contracts was immaterial and are included in other current assets.  The effect of the gains and losses from our foreign currency option contracts in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were immaterial.
 Balance Sheet Hedging Activities  Our foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as hedging instruments, and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as other current assets or
accrued and other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and 
  81 


Table of Contents

other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The gains and losses on these foreign currency forward contracts generally offset the gains and losses in the underlying
foreign-currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which are also reported in interest and other income, net, in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 31, 2012, we had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase
and sell approximately $242 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $197 million represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $37 million to purchase foreign currency in exchange for U.S. dollars and $8
million to sell foreign currency in exchange for British pound sterling. As of March 31, 2011, we had foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell approximately $187 million in foreign currencies. Of this amount, $140 million
represented contracts to sell foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars, $31 million to purchase foreign currencies in exchange for U.S. dollars and $16 million to sell foreign currencies in exchange for British pound sterling. The fair value
of our foreign currency forward contracts was measured using Level 2 inputs and was immaterial as of March 31, 2012 and 2011.  The effect
of foreign currency forward contracts in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was as follows (in millions): 
 


















 
  
Location of Gain (Loss)Recognized in Income 
onDerivative
  
Amount of Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income 
onDerivative
 

 
  
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Foreign currency forward contracts not designated as hedging instruments
  
Interest and other income
(expense), net
  
$
21
  
  
$
(12)
  
  
$
10
  
 (5)  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS  Fiscal Year 2012 Acquisitions  PopCap Games Inc. 
In August 2011, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of PopCap for an aggregate purchase price of approximately (1) $645 million in cash and
(2) $87 million in privately-placed shares of our common stock to the founders and chief executive officer of PopCap. In addition, we agreed to grant over a four year period to PopCap’s employees up to $50 million in long-term equity
retention arrangements in the form of restricted stock unit awards and options to acquire our common stock. These awards and options are accounted for as stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation.
PopCap is a leading developer of games for mobile phones, tablets, PCs, and social network sites. This acquisition strengthens our participation in casual gaming and contributes to the growth of our digital product offerings. 
The following table summarizes the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred which consisted of the following (in millions):
  








 Cash
  
$
 645
  

 Equity
  
 
87
  


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price
  
$
732
  


  
  
  
 
 The equity included in the consideration above consisted of privately-placed shares of our common stock, whose fair value
was determined based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of acquisition.  In addition, we may be required to pay
additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2013 and is limited to a maximum of $550 million based on achievement of certain non-GAAP earnings targets
before interest and tax. At the upper end of the earn-out, the performance targets for earnings before income and taxes (“EBIT”) are approximately $343 million in aggregate PopCap stand-alone EBIT generated over the two-year period ending
December 31, 2013. The estimated fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement at the acquisition date was $95 million. We estimated the fair value of the contingent consideration using probability assessments of expected future cash
flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applied a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participant’s view of the risk associated with the obligation. 
  82 


Table of Contents




   The final allocation of the purchase
price was completed during the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. The following table summarizes the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition (in millions): 
 








 Current assets
  
$
 62
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
6
  

 Goodwill
  
 
563
  

 Finite-lived intangible assets
  
 
302
  

 Contingent consideration
  
 
(95
) 

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
(51
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
(55
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price
  
$
732
  


  
  
  
 
 All of the goodwill is assigned to our EA Labels operating segment. None of the goodwill recognized upon acquisition is
deductible for tax purposes. See Note 6 for additional information related to the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill and Note 18 for segment information.  Finite-lived intangible assets acquired in this transaction are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives ranging from three to nine years. The intangible assets as of the date
of the acquisition include:   












 
  
Gross CarryingAmount
 
  
Weighted-AverageUseful Life
 

 
  
(in millions)
 
  
(in years)
 

 Developed and core technology
  
$
245
  
  
 
6
  

 Trade names and trademarks
  
 
40
  
  
 
9
  

 In-process research and development
  
 
15
  
  
 
5
  

 Other intangibles
  
 
2
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Total finite-lived intangibles
  
$
302
  
  
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
  



 In connection with our acquisition of PopCap, we acquired in-process research and development assets valued at
approximately $15 million in relation to game software that had not reached technical feasibility as of the date of acquisition. The fair value of PopCap’s products under development was determined using the income approach, which discounts
expected future cash flows from the acquired in-process technology to present value. The discount rates used in the present value calculations were derived from an average weighted average cost of capital of 13 percent. 
There were six in-process research and development projects acquired as of the acquisition date each with $4 million or less of assigned fair value and
$15 million of aggregate fair value. Additionally each project had less than $2 million of estimated costs to complete and $5 million aggregate cost to complete. As of the acquisition date, the weighted-average estimated percentage completion of all
six projects combined was 36 percent. Benefits from the development efforts have begun to be received in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 and the remaining development efforts are expected to be completed in fiscal year 2013. 
The results of operations of PopCap and the estimated fair market values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been included in our
Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was not material to our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
KlickNation and Other Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions  In November 2011, we acquired KlickNation, a developer of social role-playing games. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we completed three other acquisitions. These business combinations
were completed for total cash consideration of approximately $55 million. These acquisitions were not material to our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Operations. The results of operations and the estimated fair value of the

  83 


Table of Contents

acquired assets and assumed liabilities have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of the acquisitions. See Note 6 for information regarding goodwill and
acquisition-related intangible assets. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effect of the acquisitions was not material to our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
Fiscal Year 2011 Acquisition  In October 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Chillingo in cash. Chillingo publishes games and software for various mobile platforms. In addition, in connection and with the acquisition,
we will pay additional variable cash contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2014. We paid $4 million related to this arrangement during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. This acquisition did not
have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.  Fiscal Year 2010 Acquisitions 
Playfish  In November
2009, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Playfish for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $308 million in cash and equity. Playfish is a developer of free-to-play social games that can be played on social networking platforms. The
following table summarizes the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred which consisted of the following (in millions):   








 Cash
  
$
 297
  

 Equity
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price
  
$
308
  


  
  
  
 
 The equity included in the consideration above consisted of restricted stock and restricted stock units, using the quoted
market price of our common stock on the date of grant.  In addition, we were required to pay additional variable cash consideration that was
contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2011 and was limited to a maximum of $100 million based on tiered revenue targets. In connection with this arrangement, we paid $25 million during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2012. We expect to pay an additional $25 million during the second quarter of fiscal year 2013.  The following table
summarizes the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition (in millions):   








 Current assets
  
$
 32
  

 Deferred income taxes, net
  
 
20
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
1
  

 Goodwill
  
 
274
  

 Finite-lived intangibles assets
  
 
53
  

 Contingent consideration
  
 
(63
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
(9
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase price
  
$
308
  


  
  
  
 
 All of the goodwill was initially assigned to our Playfish operating segment, and subsequently assigned to our EA Labels
operating segment. None of the goodwill recognized upon acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. See Note 6 for additional information related to the changes in the carrying amount of goodwill and Note 18 for segment information. 
  84 


Table of Contents




   Finite-lived intangible assets
acquired in this transaction are being amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives ranging from two to five years. The intangible assets as of the date of the acquisition include: 
 












 
  
Gross CarryingAmount
 
  
Weighted-AverageUseful Life
 

 
  
(in millions)
 
  
(in years)
 

 Registered user base
  
$
 33
  
  
 
2
  

 Developed and core technology
  
 
13
  
  
 
5
  

 Trade names and trademarks
  
 
4
  
  
 
5
  

 Other intangibles
  
 
3
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Total finite-lived intangibles
  
$
53
  
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  



 The results of operations of Playfish and the estimated fair market values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of acquisition. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effect of the acquisition was not material to our Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 Other Fiscal Year 2010 Acquisitions  During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we completed three additional acquisitions that did not have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(6) GOODWILL AND ACQUISITION-RELATED INTANGIBLES, NET  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill are as follows (in millions):   








 
  
EA Labels Segment
 

 As of March 31, 2011
  




 Goodwill
  
$
1,478
  

 Accumulated impairment
  
 
(368
) 


  
  
  
 


  
 
1,110
  


  
  
  
 

 Goodwill acquired
  
 
610
  

 Effects of foreign currency translation
  
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 

 As of March 31, 2012
  




 Goodwill
  
 
2,086
  

 Accumulated impairment
  
 
(368
) 


  
  
  
 


  
$
1,718
  


  
  
  
 
 Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the underlying acquired net tangible and
intangible assets. The factors that contributed to the recognition of goodwill included securing buyer-specific synergies that increase revenue and profits and are not otherwise available to a marketplace participant, acquiring a talented workforce,
and cost saving opportunities. Goodwill is not amortized, but rather subject to at least an annual assessment for impairment by applying a fair value-based test.  During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we found no indicators of impairment of our recorded goodwill and as such, we did not recognize an impairment charge on goodwill in fiscal
years 2012, 2011 and 2010.  Acquisition-related intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, were
$369 million and $144 million, respectively, and include costs for obtaining (1) developed and core technology, (2) trade names and trademarks, (3) carrier contracts and related, (4) registered user base and other intangibles,
and (5) in-process research and development. 
  85 


Table of Contents
Amortization of intangibles for the fiscal years ended March 31 2012, 2011 and 2010 are classified in
the Consolidated Statement of Operations as follows (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Cost of product
  
$
35
  
  
$
9
  
  
$
7
  

 Cost of service and other
  
 
17
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3
  

 Research and development
  
 
43
  
  
 
57
  
  
 
53
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
95
  
  
$
69
  
  
$
63
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Acquisition-related intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of their estimated
useful lives or the agreement terms, typically from two to fourteen years. As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, the weighted-average remaining useful life for acquisition-related intangible assets was approximately 5.7 and 5.1 years for each period,
respectively.  Acquisition-related intangibles, consisted of the following (in millions): 
 




























 
 
As of March 31, 2012
 
 
As of March 31, 2011
 

 
 
GrossCarryingAmount
 
 
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Acquisition-RelatedIntangibles, Net
 
 
GrossCarryingAmount
 
 
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Acquisition-RelatedIntangibles, Net

 

 Developed and core technology
 
$
518
  
 
$
(229
) 
 
$
289
  
 
$
259
  
 
$
(180
) 
 
$
79
  

 Trade names and trademarks
 
 
131
  
 
 
(84
) 
 
 
47
  
 
 
90
  
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
20
  

 Registered user base and other intangibles
 
 
90
  
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
10
  
 
 
86
  
 
 
(64
) 
 
 
22
  

 Carrier contracts and related
 
 
85
  
 
 
(67
) 
 
 
18
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
23
  

 In-process research and development
 
 
10
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
834
  
 
$
(465
) 
 
$
369
  
 
$
520
  
 
$
(376
) 
 
$
144
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of March 31, 2012, future amortization of finite-lived intangibles that will be recorded in cost of revenue and
operating expenses is estimated as follows (in millions):   








 Fiscal Year Ending March 31,
  
 
 

 2013
  
$
78
  

 2014
  
 
67
  

 2015
  
 
62
  

 2016
  
 
50
  

 2017
  
 
42
  

 Thereafter
  
 
70
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
369
  


  
  
  
 

  86 


Table of Contents




   (7) RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER CHARGES
 Restructuring and other restructuring plan-related information as of March 31, 2012 was as follows (in millions): 
 












































 
 
Fiscal 2011Restructuring
 
 
Fiscal
2010Restructuring
 
 
Fiscal 2009Restructuring
 
 
Other Restructuringsand Reorganization
 

 
 
Workforce
 
 
Other
 
 
Workforce
 
 
Facilities-related
 
 
Other
 
 
Workforce
 
 
Facilities-related
 
 
Facilities-related
 
 
Other
 
 
Total
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2009
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
23
  

 Charges to operations
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
62
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
140
  

 Charges settled in cash
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
(62
) 

 Charges settled in non-cash
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(65
) 

 Accrual reclassification
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(7
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2010
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
29
  

 Charges to operations
 
 
13
  
 
 
135
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
13
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
161
  

 Charges settled in cash
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(70
) 

 Charges settled in non-cash
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2011
 
 
3
  
 
 
101
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
117
  

 Charges to operations
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
21
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
8
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
16
  

 Charges settled in cash
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(47
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(55
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2012
 
$
—
  
 
$
75
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
1
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
78
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Fiscal 2011 Restructuring  In fiscal year 2011, we announced a plan focused on the restructuring of certain licensing and developer agreements in an effort to improve the long-term profitability of our packaged goods business.
Under this plan, we amended certain licensing and developer agreements. To a much lesser extent, as part of this restructuring we had workforce reductions and facilities closures through March 31, 2011. Substantially all of these exit
activities were completed by March 31, 2011.  As part of our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, we amended certain license agreements to
terminate certain rights we previously had to use the licensors’ intellectual property. However, under these agreements we continue to be obligated to pay the contractual minimum royalty-based commitments set forth in the original
agreements. Accordingly, we recognized losses and impairments of $123 million representing (1) the net present value of the estimated payments related to terminating these rights and (2) writing down assets associated with these agreements
to their approximate fair value. In addition, for one agreement, the actual amount of the loss is variable and subject to periodic adjustments as it is dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from the games. Because the loss for one agreement
will be paid in installments through June 2016, our accrued loss was computed using the effective interest method. We currently estimate recognizing in future periods through June 2016, approximately $13 million for the accretion of interest expense
related to this obligation. This interest expense will be included in restructuring and other charges in our Consolidated Statement of Operations.  In addition, for the development of certain games, we previously entered into publishing agreements with independent software developers. Under these agreements, we were obligated to pay the independent
software developers a predetermined amount (a “Minimum Guarantee”) upon delivery of a completed product. The 
  87 


Table of Contents

independent software developers were thinly capitalized and they financed the development of products through bank borrowings. During fiscal year 2011, in order to more directly influence the
development, product quality and product completion, we amended these agreements whereby we agreed to advance a portion of the Minimum Guarantee prior to completion of the product which were used by the independent software developers to repay their
bank loans. In addition, we are now committed to advance the remaining portion of the Minimum Guarantee during the remaining development period. As a result, we have now assumed development risk of the products. 
Because the independent software developers are thinly capitalized, our sole ability to recover the Minimum Guarantee is effectively through publishing
the software product in development. We also have exclusive rights to exploit the software product once completed. Therefore, we concluded that the substance of the arrangement is the purchase of research and development that has no alternative
future use and was expensed upon acquisition. Accordingly, we recognized a $31 million charge in our Consolidated Statement of Operations during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. In addition, we will recognize the remaining portion of the
Minimum Guarantee to be advanced during the development period as research and development expense as the services are incurred.  Since the
inception of the fiscal 2011 restructuring plan through March 31, 2012, we have incurred charges of $168 million, consisting of (1) $125 million related to the amendment of certain licensing agreements and other intangible asset impairment
costs, (2) $31 million related to the amendment of certain developer agreements, and (3) $12 million in employee-related expenses. The $75 million restructuring accrual as of March 31, 2012 related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring is
expected to be settled by June 2016. In fiscal year 2013 and thereafter, we anticipate incurring $13 million of restructuring charges related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring resulting from interest expense accretion. 
Overall, including $168 million in charges incurred through March 31, 2012, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $180 million
and $185 million by June 2016. These charges will consist primarily of (1) charges, including accretion of interest expense, related to the amendment of certain licensing and developer agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs
(approximately $170 million) and (2) employee-related costs ($12 million).  Fiscal 2010 Restructuring
 In fiscal year 2010, we announced a restructuring plan to narrow our product portfolio to provide greater focus on titles with higher
margin opportunities. Under this plan, we reduced our workforce by approximately 1,100 employees and have (1) consolidated or closed various facilities, (2) eliminated certain titles, and (3) incurred IT and other costs to assist in
reorganizing certain activities. The majority of these exit activities were completed by March 31, 2010.  Since the inception of the
fiscal 2010 restructuring plan through March 31, 2012, we have incurred charges of $135 million, consisting of (1) $62 million in employee-related expenses, (2) $53 million related to intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned
rights to intellectual property, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and (3) $20 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. We do not expect to incur any additional restructuring
charges under this plan. The $1 million restructuring accrual as of March 31, 2012 related to the fiscal 2010 restructuring is expected to be settled by February 2013.  Fiscal 2009 Restructuring  In fiscal year 2009, we announced a cost reduction plan
as a result of our performance combined with the economic environment. This plan included a narrowing of our product portfolio, a reduction in our worldwide workforce of approximately 11 percent, or 1,100 employees, the closure of 10 facilities, and
reductions in other variable costs and capital expenditures.  Since the inception of the fiscal 2009 restructuring plan through March 31,
2012, we have incurred charges of $55 million, consisting of (1) $33 million in employee-related expenses, (2) $20 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities, and (3) $2 million related to asset impairments. We do not
expect to incur any additional restructuring charges under this plan. The restructuring accrual of $2 million as of March 31, 2012 related to the fiscal 2009 restructuring is expected to be settled by September 2016. 
  88 


Table of Contents




   Other
Restructurings and Reorganization  We also engaged in various other restructurings and a reorganization based on management decisions
made prior to April 1, 2008. From April 1, 2008 through March 31, 2012, $31 million in cash has been paid out under these restructuring plans. In December 2007, we commenced marketing our facility in Chertsey, England for sale related
to our 2008 reorganization. In August 2011, we completed the sale of our facility in Chertsey, England for $26 million and recognized a gain of $10 million. The gain is included in restructuring and other charges on our Consolidated Statement of
Operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012.  Fiscal 2013 Restructuring 
On May 7, 2012, we announced a plan of restructuring to align our cost structure with our ongoing digital transformation. Under this plan, we
anticipate reducing our workforce and incurring other costs. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by September 30, 2012.  In connection with this plan, we anticipate incurring approximately $40 million in total costs, of which approximately $31 million will result in future cash expenditures. All of these charges are
expected to occur during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013. These costs will consist of severance and other employee-related costs (approximately $23 million), license termination costs (approximately $11 million) and other costs
(approximately $6 million).  (8) ROYALTIES AND LICENSES  Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of
payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to
independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. 
Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are
accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts
with guaranteed minimums. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to
development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after
completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue.  Our contracts with some licensors
include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee
payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are
contractually due within the next 12 months.  Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as
well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development
expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum
royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is 
  89 


Table of Contents

abandoned (i.e., cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. During fiscal year 2012, we recognized losses of $21 million, representing an
adjustment to our fiscal 2011 restructuring. During fiscal year 2011, we recognized losses of $85 million, inclusive of $75 million related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring, on previously unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments. In addition,
we recognized impairment charges of $40 million, inclusive of $27 million related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring, on royalty-based assets. During fiscal year 2010, we recognized impairment charges of $10 million, inclusive of $9 million related to
the fiscal 2010 restructuring, on royalty-based assets. The losses and impairment charges related to restructuring and other restructuring plan-related activities are presented in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The current and long-term portions of prepaid royalties and minimum guaranteed royalty-related assets, included in other current assets and other assets,
consisted of (in millions):   












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 

 Other current assets
  
$
85
  
  
$
89
  

 Other assets
  
 
102
  
  
 
22
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Royalty-related assets
  
$
187
  
  
$
111
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At any given time, depending on the timing of our payments to our co-publishing and/or distribution affiliates, content
licensors and/or independent software developers, we recognize unpaid royalty amounts owed to these parties as accrued liabilities. The current and long-term portions of accrued royalties, included in accrued and other current liabilities and other
liabilities, consisted of (in millions):   












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 

 Accrued and other current liabilities
  
$
121
  
  
$
136
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
52
  
  
 
61
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Royalty-related liabilities
  
$
173
  
  
$
197
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of March 31, 2012, $75 million of restructuring accruals related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring plan is
included in royalty-related liabilities in the table above. See Note 7 for details of restructuring and other restructuring plan-related activities and Note 9 for the details of our accrued and other current liabilities. 
In addition, as of March 31, 2012, we were committed to pay approximately $810 million to content licensors, independent software developers, and
co-publishing and/or distribution affiliates, but performance remained with the counterparty (i.e., delivery of the product or content or other factors) and such commitments were therefore not recorded in our Consolidated Financial
Statements.  (9)  BALANCE SHEET DETAILS  Inventories  Inventories as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 consisted of (in
millions):   












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 

 Raw materials and work in process
  
$
—
  
  
$
8
  

 Finished goods
  
 
59
  
  
 
69
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Inventories
  
$
59
  
  
$
77
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  90 


Table of Contents




   Property and
Equipment, Net  Property and equipment, net, as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 consisted of (in millions): 
 












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 

 Computer equipment and software
  
$
575
  
 
$
504
  

 Buildings
  
 
339
  
 
 
355
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
121
  
 
 
105
  

 Office equipment, furniture and fixtures
  
 
72
  
 
 
67
  

 Land
  
 
64
  
 
 
66
  

 Warehouse equipment and other
  
 
10
  
 
 
10
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
38
  
 
 
20
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
1,219
  
 
 
1,127
  

 Less accumulated depreciation
  
 
(651
) 
 
 
(614
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
568
  
 
$
513
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense associated with property and equipment was $102 million, $104 million and $123 million for the
fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters
facilities comprised of approximately 660,000 square feet concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessor’s financing agreements. These facilities were subject to lease obligations, which expired in July 2009, and had previously
been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. This $14
million loss is included in general and administrative expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. Subsequent to our purchase, we classified the facilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as
property and equipment, net, and depreciate the facilities acquired, excluding land, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives.  Acquisition-Related Restricted Cash Included in Other Current Assets  Included in
other current assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 was $31 million and $100 million, respectively, of acquisition-related restricted cash. In connection with our acquisition of Playfish in fiscal year 2010, we
deposited $100 million into an escrow account to pay the former shareholders of Playfish in the event certain performance milestones were achieved through December 31, 2011. As a result of certain milestone achievements through
December 31, 2011, we paid $25 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and expect to pay an additional $25 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. We have reclassified the remaining $50 million to cash and cash equivalents. In
connection with our acquisition of PopCap in August 2011, we acquired $6 million of additional restricted cash held in an escrow account in the event certain liabilities become due. As these deposits are restricted in nature, they are excluded from
cash and cash equivalents.  Accrued and Other Current Liabilities 
Accrued and other current liabilities as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 consisted of (in millions): 
 












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 

 Other accrued expenses
  
$
441
  
  
$
359
  

 Accrued compensation and benefits
  
 
233
  
  
 
232
  

 Accrued royalties
  
 
98
  
  
 
96
  

 Deferred net revenue (other)
  
 
85
  
  
 
81
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accrued and other current liabilities
  
$
857
  
  
$
768
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  91 


Table of Contents
Deferred net revenue (other) includes the deferral of subscription revenue, deferrals related to our
Switzerland distribution business, advertising revenue, licensing arrangements and other revenue for which revenue recognition criteria has not been met.  Deferred Net Revenue (Packaged Goods and Digital Content)  Deferred net revenue
(packaged goods and digital content) was $1,048 million and $1,005 million as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Deferred net revenue (packaged goods and digital content) includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of
certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which either we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provide in connection with the sale of the software or we have an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified
digital content, (2) certain packaged goods sales of MMO role-playing games, and (3) sales of certain incremental content associated with our core subscription services that can only be played online, which are types of
“micro-transactions.” We recognize revenue from sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which (1) we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provided in connection with the sale and (2) we have an
obligation to deliver incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee on a straight-line basis generally over an estimated six-month period beginning in the month after delivery. However, we expense the cost of
revenue related to these transactions during the period in which the product is delivered (rather than on a deferred basis). 
(10)  INCOME TAXES  The
components of our income (loss) before benefit from income taxes for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are as follows (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Domestic
  
$
(51
) 
 
$
(189
) 
 
$
(501
) 

 Foreign
  
 
69
  
 
 
(90
) 
 
 
(205
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before benefit from income taxes
  
$
18
  
 
$
(279
) 
 
$
(706
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 



 Benefit from income taxes for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of (in
millions):  
    

 
  
Current
 
 
Deferred
 
 
Total
 

 Year Ended March 31, 2012
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
36
  
 
$
(89
) 
 
$
(53
) 

 State
  
 
3
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
1
  

 Foreign
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
(6
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
28
  
 
$
(86
) 
 
$
(58
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year Ended March 31, 2011
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(23
) 
 
$
2
  
 
$
(21
) 

 State
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
3
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Foreign
  
 
23
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
21
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
(6
) 
 
$
3
  
 
$
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year Ended March 31, 2010
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(8
) 
 
$
(57
) 
 
$
(65
) 

 State
  
 
2
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Foreign
  
 
27
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
38
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
21
  
 
$
(50
) 
 
$
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  92 


Table of Contents




   The differences between the statutory
tax expense (benefit) rate and our effective tax expense rate, expressed as a percentage of income (loss) before benefit from income taxes, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were as follows: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Statutory federal tax expense (benefit) rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
(35.0
%) 
 
 
(35.0
%) 

 State taxes, net of federal benefit
  
 
(33.5
%) 
 
 
(5.8
%) 
 
 
(3.4
%) 

 Differences between statutory rate and foreign effective tax rate
  
 
(33.5
%) 
 
 
12.3
% 
 
 
4.2
% 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(195.1
%) 
 
 
23.7
% 
 
 
17.2
% 

 Research and development credits
  
 
(39.2
%) 
 
 
(2.4
%) 
 
 
(1.1
%) 

 Non-deductible acquisition-related costs and tax expense from integration restructurings
  
 
16.7
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
8.2
% 

 Differences between book and tax loss on strategic investments
  
 
—
  
 
 
(8.6
%) 
 
 
—
  

 Expiration of statutes of limitations
  
 
(266.8
%) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Non-deductible stock-based compensation
  
 
205.6
% 
 
 
12.1
% 
 
 
5.0
% 

 Other
  
 
(11.4
%) 
 
 
2.6
% 
 
 
0.8
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax benefit rate
  
 
(322.2
%) 
 
 
(1.1
%) 
 
 
(4.1
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries amounted to approximately $1,415 million as of March 31, 2012.
Those earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to both U.S. income taxes
(subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. It is not practicable to determine the income tax liability that might be incurred if these earnings were to be distributed. 
The components of net deferred tax assets, as of March 31, 2012 and 2011 consisted of (in millions): 
 












 
  
As of March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Accruals, reserves and other expenses
  
$
182
  
 
$
178
  

 Tax credit carryforwards
  
 
201
  
 
 
181
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
49
  
 
 
66
  

 Amortization
  
 
—
  
 
 
12
  

 Unrealized gain on marketable equity securities
  
 
14
  
 
 
—
  

 Net operating loss & capital loss carryforwards
  
 
273
  
 
 
234
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
719
  
 
 
671
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(487
) 
 
 
(515
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance
  
 
232
  
 
 
156
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Depreciation
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(7
) 

 State effect on federal taxes
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
(56
) 

 Amortization
  
 
(44
) 
 
 
—
  

 Unrealized gain on marketable equity securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Prepaids and other liabilities
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
(27
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
(137
) 
 
 
(93
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance and deferred tax liabilities
  
$
95
  
 
$
63
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The valuation allowance decreased by $28 million in fiscal year 2012, primarily due to the decrease in net deferred tax
assets as a result of the PopCap and KlickNation acquisitions. 
  93 


Table of Contents
As of March 31, 2012, we have federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carry forwards of
approximately $550 million of which approximately $216 million is attributable to various acquired companies. These acquired net operating loss carry forwards are subject to an annual limitation under Internal Revenue Code Section 382. The
federal NOL, if not fully realized, will begin to expire in 2028. Furthermore, we have state net loss carry forwards of approximately $727 million of which approximately $139 million is attributable to various acquired companies. The state NOL, if
not fully realized, will begin to expire in 2016. We also have U.S. federal, California and Canada tax credit carry forwards of $104 million, $103 million and $30 million, respectively. The U.S. federal tax credit carry forwards will begin to expire
in 2016. The California and Canada tax credit carry forwards can be carried forward indefinitely.  The total unrecognized tax benefits as of
March 31, 2012 and 2011 were $274 million and $273 million, respectively. Of these amounts, $43 million and $37 million of liabilities would be offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution as of March 31,
2012 and 2011, respectively. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of unrecognized tax benefits is summarized as follows (in millions):   








 Balance as of March 31, 2010
  
$
278
  

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits related to prior year tax positions
  
 
9
  

 Decreases in unrecognized tax benefits related to prior year tax positions
  
 
(41
) 

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits related to current year tax positions
  
 
46
  

 Decreases in unrecognized tax benefits related to settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(14
) 

 Reductions in unrecognized tax benefits due to lapse of applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(12
) 

 Changes in unrecognized tax benefits due to foreign currency translation
  
 
7
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2011
  
 
273
  


  
  
  
 

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits related to prior year tax positions
  
 
7
  

 Decreases in unrecognized tax benefits related to prior year tax positions
  
 
(4
) 

 Increases in unrecognized tax benefits related to current year tax positions
  
 
58
  

 Decreases in unrecognized tax benefits related to settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(1
) 

 Reductions in unrecognized tax benefits due to lapse of applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(54
) 

 Changes in unrecognized tax benefits due to foreign currency translation
  
 
(5
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2012
  
$
274
  


  
  
  
 
 During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 we reached a final settlement with the Internal Revenue Service
(“IRS”) for the fiscal years 2000 through 2005. As a result, we recorded approximately $22 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits and reduced our accrual for interest by approximately $10 million. 
A portion of our unrecognized tax benefits will affect our effective tax rate if they are recognized upon favorable resolution of the uncertain tax
positions. As of March 31, 2012, approximately $98 million of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect our effective tax rate and approximately $163 million would result in corresponding adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowance. As
of March 31, 2011, approximately $137 million of the unrecognized tax benefits would affect our effective tax rate and approximately $123 million would result in adjustments to deferred tax valuation allowance. 
Interest and penalties related to estimated obligations for tax positions taken in our tax returns are recognized in income tax expense in our
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The combined amount of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns and included in non-current other liabilities was approximately $21 million as of March 31, 2012, as
compared to $24 million as of March 31, 2011. Accrued interest expense related to estimated obligations for unrecognized tax benefits decreased by approximately $3 million during fiscal year 2012. There is no material change in accrued
penalties during fiscal year 2012.  We file income tax returns in the United States, including various state and local jurisdictions. Our
subsidiaries file tax returns in various foreign jurisdictions, including Canada, France, Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The IRS has completed its examination of our federal income tax returns through fiscal year 2005, and

  94 


Table of Contents




   
is currently examining our fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2008 tax returns. We are also currently under income tax examination in Canada for fiscal years 2004 and 2005, and in France for fiscal
years 2006 through 2007. We remain subject to income tax examination for several other jurisdictions including Canada for fiscal years after 2005, in France for fiscal years after 2008, in Germany for fiscal years after 2007, in the United Kingdom
for fiscal years after 2010, and in Switzerland for fiscal years after 2007.  On January 18, 2011, we received a Corporation Notice of
Reassessment (the “Notice”) from the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”) claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and penalties, for the 2004 and 2005 tax years. The incremental tax liability asserted by the CRA is $44
million, excluding interest and penalties. The Notice primarily relates to transfer pricing in connection with the reimbursement of costs for services rendered to our U.S. parent company by one of our subsidiaries in Canada. We do not agree with the
CRA’s position and we have filed a Notice of Objection with the appeals department of the CRA. We do not believe the CRA’s position has merit and accordingly, we have not adjusted our liability for uncertain tax positions as a result of
the Notice. If, upon resolution, we are required to pay an amount in excess of our liability for uncertain tax positions for this matter, the incremental amounts due would result in additional charges to income tax expense. In determining such
charges, we would consider whether any correlative relief should be included in the form of additional tax deductions in the U.S should we decide to seek such relief.  The timing of the resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain, and the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially
from the amounts accrued for each year. Although potential resolution of uncertain tax positions involve multiple tax periods and jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that a reduction of up to $80 million of unrecognized tax benefits may
occur within the next 12 months, some of which, depending on the nature of the settlement or expiration of statutes of limitations, may affect the Company’s income tax provision and therefore benefit the resulting effective tax rate. The
actual amount could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements.  (11)  FINANCING
ARRANGEMENT  0.75% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2016  In July 2011, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the “Notes”). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations which pay interest
semi-annually in arrears at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2012 and will mature on July 15, 2016, unless earlier purchased or converted in accordance with their
terms prior to such date. The Notes are senior in right of payment to any unsecured indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes.  The Notes are convertible into cash and shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion value of 31.5075 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial
conversion price of approximately $31.74 per share). Upon conversion of the Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of each Note, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in shares of our common stock. Prior to
April 15, 2016, the Notes are convertible only if (1) the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading
day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130 percent of the conversion price ($41.26 per share) on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any ten consecutive trading day
period in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes falls below 98 percent of the last reported sale price of our common stock multiplied by the conversion rate on each trading day; or (3) specified corporate transactions,
including a change in control, occur. On or after April 15, 2016 a holder may convert any of its Notes at any time prior to the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date. The conversion rate
is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments (for example, certain dividend distributions or tender or exchange offer of our common stock), but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. The Notes are not redeemable prior to
maturity except for specified corporate transactions and events of default, and no sinking fund is provided for the Notes. The Notes do not contain any financial covenants. 
  95 


Table of Contents
We separately account for the liability and equity components of the Notes. The carrying amount of the
equity component representing the conversion option is equal to the fair value of the Convertible Note Hedge, as described below, which is a substantially identical instrument and was purchased on the same day as the Notes. The carrying amount of
the liability component was determined by deducting the fair value of the equity component from the par value of the Notes as a whole, and represents the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. A
liability of $525 million as of the date of issuance was recognized for the principal amount of the Notes representing the present value of the Notes’ cash flows using a discount rate of 4.54 percent. The excess of the principal amount of the
liability component over its carrying amount is amortized to interest expense over the term of the Notes using the effective interest method. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity
classification.  In accounting for $15 million of issuance costs related to the Notes issuance, we allocated $13 million to the liability
component and $2 million to the equity component. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are being amortized to expense over the term of the Notes, and issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted with the
equity component in additional paid-in capital.  The carrying values of the liability and equity components of the Notes are reflected in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows (in millions):   








 
  
As ofMarch 31,
2012
 

 Principal amount of Notes
  
$
633
  

 Unamortized discount of the liability component
  
 
(94
) 


  
  
  
 

 Net carrying amount of Notes
  
$
539
  


  
  
  
 

 Equity component, net
  
$
105
  


  
  
  
 

   Interest expense recognized related to the Notes are
as follows (in millions):  
    


 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2012
 

 Amortization of debt discount
  
$
14
  

 Amortization of debt issuance costs
  
 
2
  

 Coupon interest expense
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 

 Total interest expense related to Notes
  
$
19
  


  
  
  
 
 As of March 31, 2012, the remaining life of the Notes is 4.3 years. 
Convertible Note Hedge and Warrants Issuance  In addition, in July 2011, we entered into privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the “Convertible Note Hedge”) with certain counterparties to reduce the potential dilution
with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. The Convertible Note Hedge, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, provide us with the option to acquire, on a net settlement basis, approximately 19.9 million shares of
our common stock at a strike price of $31.74, which corresponds to the conversion price of the Notes and is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes. As of March 31, 2012, we have not purchased any
shares under the Convertible Note Hedge. We paid $107 million for the Convertible Note Hedge, which was recorded as an equity transaction. 
Separately, we have also entered into privately-negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third
parties warrants (the “Warrants”) to acquire, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments that are substantially the same as the anti-dilution provisions contained in the Notes, up to 19.9 million shares of our common stock (which
is also equal to the number of shares of our common stock that 
  96 


Table of Contents




   
notionally underlie the Notes), with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrants could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of its
common stock exceeds $41.14 on or prior to the expiration date of the Warrants. We received proceeds of $65 million from the sale of the Warrants.  (12)  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  Lease Commitments
 As of March 31, 2012, we leased certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease
agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. See Note 9 regarding the purchase
of our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities on July 13, 2009.  Development, Celebrity, League and Content
Licenses: Payments and Commitments  The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists,
software programmers and by non-employee software developers (“independent artists” or “third-party developers”). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of
our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set
forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers.  In addition, we have certain celebrity,
league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL
(Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fußball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR, Tiger Woods and Augusta National (professional
golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players’ Association (professional hockey); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); ESPN (content in
EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbro’s toy and game intellectual properties); and LucasArts and Lucas Licensing (Star Wars: The Old Republic). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the
cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are
conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below.  The following table summarizes our unrecognized minimum contractual obligations as of March 31, 2012 (in millions):   




























 
  
Contractual Obligations
 
  
 
 

 Fiscal Year Ending March 31,
  
Leases(a)
 
  
Developer/LicensorCommitments
 
  
Marketing
 
  
Covertible 
NotesInterest(b)
 
  
Other PurchaseObligations
 
  
Total
 

 2013
  
$
54
  
  
$
158
  
  
$
52
  
  
$
5
  
  
$
15
  
  
$
284
  

 2014
  
 
48
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
51
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
234
  

 2015
  
 
40
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
193
  

 2016
  
 
28
  
  
 
166
  
  
 
33
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
232
  

 2017
  
 
15
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
43
  

 Thereafter
  
 
26
  
  
 
239
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
342
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
211
  
  
$
810
  
  
$
263
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
22
  
  
$
1,328
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(a) 
 Lease commitments have not been reduced by minimum sub-lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of
approximately $7 million due in the future under non-cancelable sub-leases. 
  97 


Table of Contents


(b) 

 In addition to the interest payments reflected in the table above, we will be obligated to pay the $632.5 million principal amount of the 0.75%
Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 and any excess conversion value in shares of our common stock upon redemption after the maturity of the Notes on July 15, 2016 or earlier. See Note 11 for additional information related to our 0.75%
Convertible Senior Notes due 2016.  The amounts represented in the table above reflect our unrecognized minimum cash
obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the
dates the amounts are contractually due; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results.  In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2012, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $251 million, of
which approximately $43 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will
occur.  In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2012, primarily in connection with our PopCap, KlickNation,
and Chillingo acquisitions, we may be required to pay an additional $572 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. As of March 31, 2012, we have accrued $112 million
of contingent consideration on our Consolidated Balance Sheet representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration.  Total
rent expense for all operating leases was $139 million, $96 million and $91 million, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Legal Proceedings  In June 2008, Geoffrey Pecover filed an antitrust class action in
the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that EA obtained an illegal monopoly in a discreet antitrust market that consists of “league-branded football simulation video games” by bidding for, and
winning, exclusive licenses with the NFL, Collegiate Licensing Company and Arena Football League. In December 20, 2010, the district court granted the plaintiffs’ request to certify a class of plaintiffs consisting of all consumers who
purchased EA’s Madden NFL, NCAA Football or Arena Football video games after 2005. The court has set a trial date for October 2012. The complaint seeks compensatory damages. The parties initiated settlement negotiations in May 2012 and
subsequently reached a non-binding settlement in principle; however, no settlement agreement has been approved by the court as of the date of this filing. As a result, we recognized a $27 million accrual in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012
associated with the potential settlement.  We are also subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We do not
believe that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition of such claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(13)  PREFERRED STOCK  As of
March 31, 2012 and 2011, we had 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized but unissued. The rights, preferences, and restrictions of the preferred stock may be designated by our Board of Directors without further action by our
stockholders.  (14)  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
Valuation Assumptions  We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant. We recognize compensation costs for stock-based payment awards to employees based on the grant-date fair
value using a straight-line approach over the service period for which such awards are expected to vest. 
  98 


Table of Contents




   We determine the fair value of our
share-based payment awards as follows:   


 
•
 
 Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock, and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units. The fair value of restricted stock units, restricted
stock, and performance-based restricted stock units (other than market-based restricted stock units) is determined based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of grant. Performance-based restricted stock units include grants
made (1) to certain members of executive management primarily granted in fiscal year 2008 and (2) in connection with certain acquisitions.   


 
•
 
 Market-Based Restricted Stock Units. Market-based restricted stock units consist of grants of performance-based restricted stock units to
certain members of executive management (referred to herein as “market-based restricted stock units”). The fair value of our market-based restricted stock units is determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Key assumptions for the
Monte-Carlo simulation model are the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividends and correlation coefficient.   


 
•
 
 Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our equity
incentive plans and our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”), respectively, is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model based on the multiple-award valuation method. Key assumptions of the Black-Scholes valuation model are
the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividends.  The determination of the fair value
of market-based restricted stock units, stock options and ESPP is affected by assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables. Generally, our assumptions are based on historical information and judgment is required to determine if historical
trends may be indicators of future outcomes.  The estimated assumptions used in the Black-Scholes valuation model to value our stock option
grants and ESPP were as follows:   




























 
  
Stock Option Grants
 
 
ESPP
 

 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 
 
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
0.4 - 1.8
% 
 
 
0.3 - 2.6
% 
 
 
1.4 - 3.1
% 
 
 
0.1 - 0.2
% 
 
 
0.2 - 0.3
% 
 
 
0.2 - 0.4
% 

 Expected volatility
  
 
40 - 46
% 
 
 
39 - 45
% 
 
 
40 - 48
% 
 
 
39 - 41
% 
 
 
34 - 38
% 
 
 
35 - 57
% 

 Weighted-average volatility
  
 
43
% 
 
 
42
% 
 
 
45
% 
 
 
41
% 
 
 
36
% 
 
 
39
% 

 Expected term
  
 
4.4 years
  
 
 
4.2 years
  
 
 
4.2 years
  
 
 
6-12 months
  
 
 
6-12 months
  
 
 
6-12 months
  

 Expected dividends
  
 
None
  
 
 
None
  
 
 
None
  
 
 
None
  
 
 
None
  
 
 
None
  
 The estimated assumptions used in the Monte-Carlo simulation model to value our market-based restricted stock units were
as follows:   








 
  
Year EndedMarch 31, 2012
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
0.2 - 0.6
% 

 Expected volatility
  
 
14 - 83
% 

 Weighted-average volatility
  
 
35
% 

 Expected dividends
  
 
None
  
 There were no market-based restricted stock units granted during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010.
 Stock-Based Compensation Expense  Employee stock-based compensation expense recognized during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was calculated based on awards ultimately expected to vest and has been reduced for
estimated forfeitures. In subsequent periods, if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates, an adjustment to stock-based compensation expense will be recognized at that time. 
  99 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense resulting from stock options, restricted
stock, restricted stock units and the ESPP included in our Consolidated Statements of Operations (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Cost of revenue
  
$
2
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
2
  

 Marketing and sales
  
 
26
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
16
  

 General and administrative
  
 
36
  
  
 
40
  
  
 
33
  

 Research and development
  
 
106
  
  
 
111
  
  
 
110
  

 Restructuring and other charges
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
26
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Stock-based compensation expense
  
$
170
  
  
$
176
  
  
$
187
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we did not recognize any provision for or benefit from
income taxes related to our stock-based compensation expense.  As of March 31, 2012, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to
stock options was $12 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average service period of 2.0 years. As of March 31, 2012, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock and restricted stock units
(collectively referred to as “restricted stock rights”) was $293 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average service period of 2.0 years. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we determined that the
performance criteria for certain performance-based restricted stock units was improbable of achievement and accordingly reversed stock-based compensation expense of $7 million previously recognized within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. As
the criteria for these certain performance-based restricted stock was improbable of achievement, the related unrecognized compensation cost is excluded from the total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock rights as of
March 31, 2012.  For fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we recognized $3 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options,
net of $1 million of deferred tax write-offs; of this amount $4 million of excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation was reported in the financing activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For the fiscal year ended
March 31, 2011, we recognized $2 million of tax expense from the exercise of stock options, net of $3 million of deferred tax write-offs; of this amount $1 million of excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation was reported in the
financing activities on our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we recognized $14 million of tax benefits from the exercise of stock options for which we did not have any deferred tax asset
write-offs; all of which represented excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation and was reported in financing activities.  Summary of Plans and Plan Activity  Equity Incentive Plans
 Our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Equity Plan”) allows us to grant options to purchase our common stock and to grant
restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights to our employees, officers and directors. Pursuant to the Equity Plan, incentive stock options may be granted to employees and officers and non-qualified options may be granted
to employees, officers and directors, at not less than 100 percent of the fair market value on the date of grant.  We also have options
outstanding that were granted under the VG Holding Corp. 2005 Stock Incentive Plan (the “VGH 2005 Plan”), which we assumed in connection with our acquisition of VGH.  In connection with our acquisition of VGH, we also established the 2007 Electronic Arts VGH Acquisition Inducement Award Plan (the “VGH Inducement Plan”), which allowed us to grant restricted
stock units to service providers, who were employees of VGH or a subsidiary of VGH immediately prior to the consummation of the acquisition and who became employees of EA following the acquisition. The restricted stock units granted under the VGH
Inducement Plan vest pursuant to either (1) time-based vesting schedules over a period of up to 
  100



Table of Contents




   
four years or (2) the achievement of pre-determined performance-based milestones, and in all cases are subject to earlier vesting in the event we terminate a recipient’s employment
without “cause” or the recipient terminates employment for “good reason.” All remaining awards either vested or were cancelled during fiscal 2012. We do not intend to grant any further awards under the VGH Inducement Plan.
 In addition, in connection with our acquisition of VGH, in exchange for outstanding stock options and restricted stock, we granted
service-based non-interest bearing notes payable solely in shares of our common stock to certain employees of VGH, who became employees of EA following the acquisition. These notes payable vest over a period of four years, subject to earlier vesting
in the event we terminate a recipient’s employment without “cause” or the recipient terminates employment for “good reason.” All notes payable vested during fiscal 2012. 
Options granted under the Equity Plan generally expire ten years from the date of grant and are generally exercisable as to 24 percent of the shares
after 12 months, and then ratably over the following 38 months. The material terms of options granted under the VGH 2005 Plan are similar to our Equity Plan.  At our Annual Meeting of Stockholders, held on July 28, 2011, our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Equity Plan”) to increase the number of shares
authorized for issuance under the Equity Plan by 10 million shares. A total of 14.7 million options or 10.3 million restricted stock units were available for grant under our Equity Plan as of March 31, 2012. 
Stock Options 
The following table summarizes our stock option activity for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012: 
 




















 
  
Options(in thousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Prices
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualTerm (in years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsic Value(in millions)
 

 Outstanding as of March 31, 2011
  
 
12,899
  
 
$
31.39
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
470
  
 
 
20.54
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(1,295
) 
 
 
19.18
  
  



  




 Forfeited, cancelled or expired
  
 
(2,300
) 
 
 
24.22
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding as of March 31, 2012
  
 
9,774
  
 
 
34.17
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Vested and expected to vest
  
 
9,690
  
 
$
34.31
  
  
 
4.7
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Exercisable
  
 
8,490
  
 
$
35.37
  
  
 
4.3
  
  
$
1
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  



 As of March 31, 2012, the weighted-average contractual term for our stock options outstanding was 4.7 years and the
aggregate intrinsic value of our stock options outstanding was $1 million. The aggregate intrinsic value represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value based on our closing stock price as of March 31, 2012, which would have been received by the
option holders had all the option holders exercised their options as of that date. The weighted-average grant date fair values of stock options granted during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $7.27, $6.03 and $7.81, respectively. The total
intrinsic values of stock options exercised during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $4 million, $1 million and $3 million, respectively. The total estimated fair values (determined as of the grant date) of stock options vested during fiscal
years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $15 million, $24 million and $26 million, respectively. We issue new common stock from our authorized shares upon the exercise of stock options. 
  101



Table of Contents
The following table summarizes outstanding and exercisable stock options as of March 31, 2012:
  
































 
  
Options Outstanding
 
 
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of
Exercise Prices
  
Numberof
Shares(in thousands)
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualTerm (in years)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercisePrices
 
  
PotentialDilution
 
 
Numberof
Shares(in thousands)
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercisePrices
 
  
PotentialDilution
 

 $2.61-$19.99
  
 
2,676
  
  
 
6.66
  
  
$
17.16
  
  
 
0.8
% 
 
 
2,211
  
  
$
16.88
  
  
 
0.7
% 

   20.00-39.99
  
 
3,227
  
  
 
4.65
  
  
 
24.95
  
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
2,686
  
  
 
25.75
  
  
 
0.9
% 

   40.00-59.99
  
 
3,157
  
  
 
3.65
  
  
 
51.15
  
  
 
1.0
% 
 
 
2,879
  
  
 
51.28
  
  
 
0.9
% 

   60.00-65.93
  
 
714
  
  
 
2.04
  
  
 
64.67
  
  
 
0.2
% 
 
 
714
  
  
 
64.67
  
  
 
0.2
% 


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 

 $2.61-$65.93
  
 
9,774
  
  
 
4.69
  
  
 
34.17
  
  
 
3.1
% 
 
 
8,490
  
  
 
35.37
  
  
 
2.7
% 


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 Potential dilution is computed by dividing the options in the related range of exercise prices by 320 million shares
of common stock, which were issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2012.  Restricted Stock Rights
 We grant restricted stock rights under our Equity Plan to employees worldwide (except in certain countries where doing so is not
feasible due to local legal requirements). Restricted stock units entitle holders to receive shares of common stock at the end of a specified period of time. Upon vesting, the equivalent number of common shares is typically issued net of required
tax withholdings, if any. Restricted stock is issued and outstanding upon grant; however, restricted stock award holders are restricted from selling the shares until they vest. Upon granting or vesting of restricted stock, as the case may be, we
will typically withhold shares to satisfy tax withholding requirements. Restricted stock rights are subject to forfeiture and transfer restrictions. Vesting for restricted stock rights is based on the holders’ continued employment with us. If
the vesting conditions are not met, unvested restricted stock rights will be forfeited. Generally, our restricted stock rights vest according to one of the following vesting schedules: 
 


 
•
 
 Three-year vesting with  1/3 cliff vesting at the end of each year;   


 
•
 
 Four-year vesting with  1/4 cliff vesting at the end of each year;   


 
•
 
 Three-year vesting with  1/4 cliff vesting at the end of each of the first and second years, and  1/2 cliff vesting at the end of the third year;   


 
•
 
 Five-year vesting with  1/9,  2/9,  3/9,
 2/9 and  1/9 of the shares cliff vesting respectively at the end of each of the
1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th years; 
 


 
•
 
 Two-year vesting with  1/2 cliff vesting at the end of each year;   


 
•
 
 35 month vesting with  1/3 cliff vesting after 11, 23 and 35 months or;   


 
•
 
 One-year vesting with 100% cliff vesting at the end of one year.  Each restricted stock right granted reduces the number of shares available for grant by 1.43 shares under our Equity Plan. The following table summarizes our restricted stock rights activity, excluding
performance-based restricted stock unit activity which is discussed below, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012:   












 
  
RestrictedStock Rights(in thousands)
 
 
Weighted-Average GrantDate Fair Values
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2011
  
 
13,971
  
 
$
22.01
  

 Granted
  
 
11,478
  
 
 
21.38
  

 Vested
  
 
(6,707
) 
 
 
24.63
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(2,419
) 
 
 
20.42
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Balance as of March 31, 2012
  
 
16,323
  
 
 
20.73
  


  
  
  
 
 




  102



Table of Contents




   The weighted-average grant date fair
value of restricted stock rights is based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant date fair values of restricted stock rights granted during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $21.38, $17.38
and $18.10, respectively. The total grant date fair values of restricted stock rights that vested during fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $165 million, $142 million and $129 million, respectively. 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units  Our performance-based restricted stock units vest contingent upon the achievement of pre-determined performance-based milestones. If these performance-based milestones are not met, the restricted stock
units will not vest, in which case, any compensation expense we have recognized to date will be reversed.  The following table summarizes our
performance-based restricted stock unit activity for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012:   












 
  
Performance-Based RestrictedStock Units(in thousands)
 
 
Weighted-Average GrantDate Fair Values
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2011
  
 
1,993
  
 
$
47.00
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(572
) 
 
 
38.68
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Balance as of March 31, 2012
  
 
1,421
  
 
 
50.35
  


  
  
  
 
 



 The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance-based restricted stock units is based on the quoted market
price of our common stock on the date of grant. The weighted-average grant date fair values of performance-based restricted stock units granted during fiscal years 2011 and 2010 were $15.39 and $20.93, respectively. The total grant date fair values
of performance-based restricted stock units that vested during fiscal year 2010 was $5 million. No performance-based restricted stock units vested during fiscal years ended 2012 and 2011. 
Market-Based Restricted Stock Units  Our market-based restricted stock units vest contingent upon the achievement of pre-determined market and service conditions. If these market conditions are not met but service conditions are met, the
restricted stock units will not vest; however, any compensation expense we have recognized to date will not be reversed. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, 670,000 market-based restricted stock units, representing the target number,
were granted. The number of shares of common stock to be received at vesting will range from zero percent to 200 percent of the target number of stock units based on our total stockholder return (“TSR”) relative to the performance of
companies in the NASDAQ-100 Index for each measurement period over a three year period.  The following table summarizes our market-based
restricted stock unit activity for the year ended March 31, 2012:   












 
  
Market-BasedRestricted 
StockUnits(in thousands)
 
 
Weighted-Average 
GrantDate Fair Value
 

 Balance as of March 31, 2011
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  

 Granted
  
 
670
  
 
 
34.77
  

 Forfeited or cancelled
  
 
(150
) 
 
 
34.77
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Balance as of March 31, 2012
  
 
520
  
 
 
34.77
  


  
  
  
 
 



 As of March 31, 2012, the maximum number of common shares that could vest is 1,040,000 for market-based restricted
stock units granted in fiscal year 2012. No market-based restricted stock units vested during fiscal year ended 2012. 
  103



Table of Contents
ESPP  Pursuant to our ESPP, eligible employees may authorize payroll deductions of between 2 percent and 10 percent of their compensation to purchase shares at 85 percent of the lower of the market price of our
common stock on the date of commencement of the offering or on the last day of each six-month purchase period.  At our Annual Meeting of
Stockholders, held on July 28, 2011, our stockholders approved amendments to the ESPP to increase the number of shares authorized under the ESPP by 3.5 million shares. As of March 31, 2012, we had 6 million shares of common stock
reserved for future issuance under the ESPP.  During fiscal year 2012, we issued approximately 2.4 million shares under the ESPP with
exercise prices for purchase rights ranging from $12.95 to $15.98. During fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, the estimated weighted-average fair values of purchase rights were $4.98, $4.67 and $6.50, respectively. 
We issue new common stock out of the ESPP’s pool of authorized shares. The fair values above were estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model assumptions.  Deferred Compensation Plan 
We have a Deferred Compensation Plan (“DCP”) for the benefit of a select group of management or highly compensated employees and Directors,
which is unfunded and intended to be a plan that is not qualified within the meaning section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. The DCP permits the deferral of the annual base salary and/or Director fees up to a maximum amount. The deferrals are
held in a separate trust, which has been established by us to administer the DCP. The trust is a grantor trust and the specific terms of the trust agreement provide that the assets of the trust are available to satisfy the claims of general
creditors in the event of our insolvency. The assets held by the trust are classified as trading securities and are held at fair value on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The assets and liabilities of the DCP are presented in other assets and other
liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively, with changes in the fair value of the assets and in the deferred compensation liability recognized as compensation expense. The estimated fair value of the assets was $11 million and
12 million as of March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of March 31, 2012 and 2011, $12 million and $13 million, respectively, was recorded to recognize undistributed deferred compensation due to employees. 
401(k) Plan and Registered Retirement Savings Plan  We have a 401(k) plan covering substantially all of our U.S. employees, and a Registered Retirement Savings Plan covering substantially all of our Canadian employees. These plans permit us to make
discretionary contributions to employees’ accounts based on our financial performance. We contributed an aggregate of $13 million, $9 million and $10 million to these plans in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Stock Repurchase Program  In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. We completed our program in April 2012. We
repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market since the commencement of the program, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. During the fiscal year 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 25 million
shares of our common stock for approximately $471 million, net of commissions.  (15)  ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 We classify items of other comprehensive income (loss) by their nature in a financial statement and display the accumulated other
comprehensive income balance separately from retained earnings (accumulated deficit) and paid-in capital in the equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Accumulated other comprehensive income primarily includes foreign currency translation
adjustments and the net of tax amounts for unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities and derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges. Foreign currency translation adjustments are not adjusted for income taxes as they
relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
  104



Table of Contents




   The change in the components of
accumulated other comprehensive income, net of related immaterial taxes, is summarized as follows (in millions):   




















 
  
ForeignCurrencyTranslationAdjustments
 
 
UnrealizedGains(Losses) onAvailable-for-sale Securities
 
 
UnrealizedGains(Losses) onDerivativeInstruments
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2009
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
191
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
189
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
73
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
39
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2010
  
 
70
  
 
 
158
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
228
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
25
  
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(9
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2011
  
 
95
  
 
 
126
  
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
219
  

 Other comprehensive loss
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
(42
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(46
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balances as of March 31, 2012
  
$
91
  
 
$
84
  
 
$
(2
) 
 
$
173
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 (16)  INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET  Interest and other income, net, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Interest expense
  
$
(20
) 
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
(2
) 

 Interest income
  
 
9
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
12
  

 Net gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions
  
 
(29
) 
 
 
12
  
 
 
(19
) 

 Net gain (loss) on foreign currency forward contracts
  
 
21
  
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
10
  

 Other income, net
  
 
2
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
5
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest and other income (expense), net
  
$
(17
) 
 
$
10
  
 
$
6
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 (17)  NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE  The following table summarizes the computations of basic earnings per share (“Basic EPS”) and diluted earnings per share (“Diluted EPS”). Basic EPS is computed as net income (loss)
divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur from common shares issuable through stock-based compensation plans including stock options, restricted
stock, restricted stock units, common stock through our ESPP, warrants, and other convertible securities using the treasury stock method.   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

(In millions, except per share amounts)
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
76
  
  
$
(276
) 
 
$
(677
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share:
  



  



 




 Weighted-average common stock outstanding — basic
  
 
331
  
  
 
330
  
 
 
325
  

 Dilutive potential common shares
  
 
5
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average common stock outstanding — diluted
  
 
336
  
  
 
330
  
 
 
325
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) per share:
  



  



 




 Basic
  
$
0.23
  
  
$
(0.84
) 
 
$
(2.08
) 

 Diluted
  
$
0.23
  
  
$
(0.84
) 
 
$
(2.08
) 

  105



Table of Contents
As a result of our net loss for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we have excluded all
share-based payment awards from the diluted loss per share calculation as their inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect. Had we reported net income for these periods, an additional 4 million shares and 2 million shares of common
stock, respectively, would have been included in the number of shares used to calculate Diluted EPS. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, options to purchase, restricted stock units and restricted stock to be released in
the amount of 10 million shares, 17 million shares and 32 million shares of common stock, respectively, were excluded from the treasury stock method computation of diluted shares as their inclusion would have had an antidilutive
effect.  Potentially dilutive shares of common stock related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 issued during the year ended
March 31, 2012, which have a conversion price of $31.74 per share and the associated Warrants, which have a conversion price of $41.14 per share, were excluded from the computation of Diluted EPS for the year ended March 31, 2012 as their
inclusion would have had an antidilutive effect resulting from the conversion price. The associated Convertible Note Hedge was excluded from the calculation of diluted shares as the impact is always considered antidilutive since the call option
would be exercised by us when the exercise price is lower than the market price. See Note 11 for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 and related Convertible Note Hedge and Warrants. 
(18)  SEGMENT INFORMATION  Our
reporting segments are based upon: our internal organizational structure; the manner in which our operations are managed; the criteria used by our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”), to evaluate segment
performance; the availability of separate financial information; and overall materiality considerations.  During the second quarter of fiscal
year 2012, we announced a recommitment of our focus on building our intellectual properties and franchises into businesses connected to the consumer on a year-round basis, growing our digital business and releasing Origin, our online commerce and
content delivery system. In connection with this and our acquisition of PopCap, we implemented a number of changes to our management reporting structure, including expanding our three labels to four, with BioWare now considered a label separate from
the EA Games Label, and aggregating these four labels into an overall EA Label organization with a President of EA Labels reporting directly to our CODM. In addition, our EAI business reported directly to our CODM (previously our EAI business
reported into our Chief Operating Officer). Through the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, the President of the EA Labels and the Executive Vice President of EAI were responsible for allocating resources within their organizations. The CODM reviewed
the disaggregated and aggregated results of the EA Labels and EAI organizations to assess overall performance and allocated resources between these two organizations while to a lesser degree, our CODM also reviewed results based on geographic
revenue performance. Because the EA Labels and EAI operating segments had similar economic characteristics, products, and distribution methods, they had been aggregated together into the EA Brands reportable segment. 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, in an effort to further advance our goals related to our second quarter announcement, we integrated the
development components of our EAI organization into our EA Labels organization. This integration included the addition of PopCap and Social/Mobile studios as separate labels under the EA Labels organization. In addition, we have renamed our EA Play
label to the Maxis label. These six labels are aggregated within the EA Label organization, share interrelated infrastructure and resources, and develop both our traditionally-delivered and digitally-delivered products and services. The EA Labels
organization is managed by the President of EA Labels who continues to report directly to our CODM. The CODM reviews the aggregated results of the labels within the EA Labels organization to assess overall performance and allocate resources between
the labels while to a lesser degree, our CODM also reviews results based on a geographic revenue performance. As of March 31, 2011, due to the aforementioned changes in our business, the EA Labels organization represents our only operating and
reportable segment. 
  106



Table of Contents




   The following table summarizes the
financial performance of the EA Labels segment and a reconciliation of the EA Labels segment’s profit to our consolidated operating income (loss) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Prior periods reported below have
been restated to reflect our current EA Labels reporting segment structure (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 EA Labels segment:
  



 



 




 Net revenue before revenue deferral
  
$
4,122
  
 
$
3,716
  
 
$
4,041
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(63
) 
 
 
(57
) 
 
 
(65
) 

 Other expenses
  
 
(3,006
) 
 
 
(2,818
) 
 
 
(3,196
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EA Labels segment profit
  
 
1,053
  
 
 
841
  
 
 
780
  

 Reconciliation to consolidated operating income (loss):
  



 



 




 Other:
  



 



 




 Revenue deferral
  
 
(3,142
) 
 
 
(2,769
) 
 
 
(2,358
) 

 Recognition of revenue deferral
  
 
3,099
  
 
 
2,530
  
 
 
1,853
  

 Other net revenue
  
 
64
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
118
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(134
) 
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
(121
) 

 Acquisition-related contingent consideration
  
 
11
  
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
2
  

 Gain (loss) on strategic investments, net
  
 
—
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
(26
) 

 Loss on lease obligation (G&A)
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(14
) 

 Loss on licensed intellectual property commitment (COR)
  
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
3
  

 Restructuring and other charges
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
(161
) 
 
 
(140
) 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
(170
) 
 
 
(174
) 
 
 
(161
) 

 Other expenses
  
 
(730
) 
 
 
(582
) 
 
 
(622
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Consolidated operating income (loss)
  
$
35
  
 
$
(312
) 
 
$
(686
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 EA Labels segment profit differs from consolidated operating loss primarily due to the exclusion of (1) certain
corporate and other functional costs that are not allocated to EA Labels, (2) the deferral of certain net revenue related to online-enabled packaged goods and digital content (see Note 9 for additional information regarding deferred net revenue
(packaged goods and digital content)), and (3) our Switzerland distribution revenue and expenses that is not allocated to EA Labels. Our CODM reviews assets on a consolidated basis and not on a segment basis. 
As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally via the Internet, management places a greater
emphasis and focus on assessing its performance through a review of net revenue by revenue composition rather than net revenue by platform. Information about our total net revenue by revenue composition for the fiscal years ended March 31,
2012, 2011 and 2010 is presented below (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Publishing and other
  
$
2,761
  
  
$
2,632
  
  
$
2,526
  

 Wireless, Internet-derived, advertising (digital)
  
 
1,159
  
  
 
743
  
  
 
522
  

 Distribution
  
 
223
  
  
 
214
  
  
 
606
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net revenue
  
$
4,143
  
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
3,654
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  107



Table of Contents
Information about our operations in North America, Europe and Asia as of and for the fiscal years ended
March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is presented below (in millions):   
















 
  
Year Ended March 31,
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 Net revenue from unaffiliated customers
  



  



  




 North America
  
$
1,991
  
  
$
1,836
  
  
$
2,025
  

 Europe
  
 
1,898
  
  
 
1,563
  
  
 
1,433
  

 Asia
  
 
254
  
  
 
190
  
  
 
196
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,143
  
  
$
3,589
  
  
$
3,654
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 
  
As of March 31,
 
  
 
 

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
 
 

 Long-lived assets
  



  



  




 North America
  
$
2,165
  
  
$
1,286
  
  




 Europe
  
 
442
  
  
 
447
  
  




 Asia
  
 
48
  
  
 
34
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
2,655
  
  
$
1,767
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



 Our North America net revenue was primarily generated in the United States. 
Our direct sales to GameStop Corp. represented approximately 15 percent, 16 percent, and 16 percent of total net revenue in the fiscal years ended
March 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 respectively. Our direct sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. represented approximately 10 percent and 12 percent of total net revenue in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our direct
sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. did not exceed 10 percent of net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. 
(19)  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND MARKET INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 
 
























 
  
Quarter Ended
 
 
YearEnded
 

(In millions, except per share data)
  
June 30
 
 
September 30
 
 
December 31
 
 
March 31
 
 

 Fiscal 2012 Consolidated
  



 



 



 



 




 Net revenue
  
$
999
  
 
$
715
  
 
$
1,061
  
 
$
1,368
  
 
$
4,143
  

 Gross profit
  
 
759
  
 
 
283
  
 
 
509
  
 
 
994
  
 
 
2,545
  

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
227
  
 
 
(374
) 
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
365
  
 
 
35
  

 Net income (loss)
  
 
221
(a)  
 
 
(340
)(b) 
 
 
(205
)(c) 
 
 
400
(d) 
 
 
76
  

 Common Stock
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss) per share — Basic
  
$
0.67
  
 
$
(1.03
) 
 
$
(0.62
) 
 
$
1.22
  
 
$
0.23
  

 Net income (loss) per share — Diluted
  
$
0.66
  
 
$
(1.03
) 
 
$
(0.62
) 
 
$
1.20
  
 
$
0.23
  

 Common stock price per share
  



 



 



 



 




 High
  
$
24.42
  
 
$
25.05
  
 
$
25.20
  
 
$
21.30
  
 
$
25.20
  

 Low
  
$
19.69
  
 
$
17.62
  
 
$
19.76
  
 
$
16.34
  
 
$
16.34
  

 Fiscal 2011 Consolidated
  



 



 



 



 




 Net revenue
  
$
815
  
 
$
631
  
 
$
1,053
  
 
$
1,090
  
 
$
3,589
  

 Gross profit
  
 
593
  
 
 
268
  
 
 
467
  
 
 
762
  
 
 
2,090
  

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
98
  
 
 
(252
) 
 
 
(303
) 
 
 
145
  
 
 
(312
) 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
96 
(e)  
 
 
(201
)(f) 
 
 
(322
)(g) 
 
 
151
(h) 
 
 
(276
) 

 Common Stock
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss) per share — Basic and Diluted
  
$
0.29
  
 
$
(0.61
) 
 
$
(0.97
) 
 
$
0.45
  
 
$
(0.84
) 

 Common stock price per share
  



 



 



 



 




 High
  
$
20.24
  
 
$
17.53
  
 
$
18.06
  
 
$
20.20
  
 
$
20.24
  

 Low
  
$
14.06
  
 
$
14.32
  
 
$
14.67
  
 
$
14.80
  
 
$
14.06
  

  108



Table of Contents




    


(a)
Net income includes restructuring charges of $18 million and $2 million of acquisition-related contingent consideration, both of which are pre-tax amounts.
  


(b)
Net loss includes restructuring charges of $(1) million and $17 million of acquisition-related contingent consideration, both of which are pre-tax amounts.
  


(c)
Net loss includes $(11) million of pre-tax acquisition-related contingent consideration. 
 


(d)
Net income includes $3 million of acquisition-related contingent consideration, restructuring charges of $(1) million, and $27 million of litigation expenses, all
of which are pre-tax amounts.   


(e)
Net income includes losses on strategic investments of $5 million, $2 million of acquisition-related contingent consideration, and restructuring charges of $2 million,
all of which are pre-tax amounts.   


(f)
Net loss includes restructuring charges of $6 million, $(1) million on licensed intellectual property commitment (COGS), a $(28) million gain on strategic investments,
net, and $(28) million of acquisition-related contingent consideration, all of which are pre-tax amounts.   


(g)
Net loss includes restructuring and other charges of $154 million and acquisition-related contingent consideration of $1 million, both of which are pre-tax amounts.
  


(h)
Net income includes $8 million of acquisition-related contingent consideration and restructuring and other charges of $(1) million, both of which are pre-tax amounts.
 Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “EA”. Our symbol changed from
“ERTS” to “EA” on December 20, 2011. The prices for the common stock in the table above represent the high and low sales prices as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 
  109



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 The Board of Directors and Stockholders  Electronic Arts Inc.:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Electronic
Arts Inc and subsidiaries (the Company) as of March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2012. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Electronic Arts Inc. and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2012, in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), Electronic Arts Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated May 25, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
/s/ KPMG LLP  Santa Clara, California
 May 25, 2012 
  110



Table of Contents




   REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
Electronic Arts Inc.:  We have audited
Electronic Arts Inc.’s (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its
inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, Electronic Arts Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Electronic Arts Inc. and subsidiaries as of March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and comprehensive
income (loss), and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2012. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the accompanying financial statement schedule. Our
report dated May 25, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.  /s/ KPMG LLP 
Santa Clara, California  May 25, 2012

  111



Table of Contents


Item 9:
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
Not applicable.   


Item 9A:
Controls and Procedures  Definition and Limitations of Disclosure Controls  Our disclosure controls and procedures
(as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports
filed under the Exchange Act, such as this report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures are also designed to ensure that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Our management evaluates these controls
and procedures on an ongoing basis.  There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures.
These limitations include the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures and reasonable resource constraints. In addition, because we have designed our system of controls based on certain assumptions,
which we believe are reasonable, about the likelihood of future events, our system of controls may not achieve its desired purpose under all possible future conditions. Accordingly, our disclosure controls and procedures provide reasonable
assurance, but not absolute assurance, of achieving their objectives.  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
Our Chief Executive Officer and our Interim Chief Financial Officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, believe
that as of the end of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in providing the requisite reasonable assurance that material information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Interim
Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding the required disclosure.  Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act.  Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to
provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. There are inherent limitations to the
effectiveness of any system of internal control over financial reporting. These limitations include the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of the system and reasonable resource constraints. Because of its inherent
limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Our management assessed the effectiveness of
our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year. In making its assessment, management used the criteria set forth in Internal Control-Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, our management believes that, as of the end of our most recently completed fiscal year, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. 
KPMG LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an auditors’ report on the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting. That report appears on page 111. 
  112



Table of Contents




   Changes in Internal Control over
Financial Reporting  There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with our evaluation
that occurred during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 that has materially affected or is reasonably likely to materially affect our internal control over financial reporting. 
 


Item 9B:
Other Information 
None. 
  113



Table of Contents
PART III 
 


Item 10:
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  The information required by Item 10, other than the information regarding executive officers, which is included in Item 1 of this report, is incorporated herein by reference to the information
to be included in our Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “Proxy Statement”) under the headings “Proposal 1: Election of Directors,” “Global Code of Conduct,” and “Report of the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors.” The information regarding Section 16 compliance is incorporated herein by reference to the information to be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
reporting Compliance.”   


Item 11:
Executive Compensation  The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the information to be included in the Proxy Statement, under the headings “Director Compensation and Stock Ownership
Guidelines,” “Executive Compensation,” “Executive Compensation and Leadership Committee report on Executive Compensation” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation.” 
 


Item 12:
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the information to be included in the Proxy Statement under the headings
“Equity Compensation Plan Information” and “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.”   


Item 13:
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the information to be included in the Proxy Statement under the headings
“Director Independence,” “Board, Board Meetings and Committees” and “Certain Relationships and Related Person Transactions.”   


Item 14:
Principal Accounting Fees and Services  The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the information to be included in the Proxy Statement under the heading “Ratification of the Appointment of KPMG LLP,
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.”  PART IV 
 


Item 15:
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   


(a)
Documents filed as part of this report 
1.   Financial Statements: See Index to Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8 on Page 63 of this report. 
2.   Financial Statement Schedule: See Schedule II on Page 116 of this report.  3.   Exhibits: The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits on Page 117 are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this report. 
  114



Table of Contents




  
 SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.   






ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.




By:
 
 /s/    John S. Riccitiello


 
John S. Riccitiello,


 
Chief Executive Officer


 
Date: May 25, 2012
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated and on the
25th of May 2012. 
 






 Name
 
 Title




 /s/    John S. Riccitiello
 
Chief Executive Officer

John S. Riccitiello
 





 /s/    Kenneth A. Barker Kenneth A. Barker
 
 Interim Chief Financial Officer and
Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)




Directors:
 





 /s/    Lawrence F. Probst III
 
Chairman of the Board

Lawrence F. Probst III
 





 /s/    Leonard S. Coleman
 
Director

Leonard S. Coleman
 





 /s/    Jay C. Hoag
 
Director

Jay C. Hoag
 





 /s/    Jeffrey T. Huber
 
Director

Jeffrey T. Huber
 





 /s/    Geraldine B. Laybourne
 
Director

Geraldine B. Laybourne
 





 /s/    Gregory B. Maffei
 
Director

Gregory B. Maffei
 





 /s/    Vivek Paul
 
Director

Vivek Paul
 





 /s/    John S. Riccitiello
 
Director

John S. Riccitiello
 





 /s/    Richard A. Simonson
 
Director

Richard A. Simonson
 





 /s/    Linda J. Srere
 
Director

Linda J. Srere
 





 /s/    Luis A. Ubiñas
 
Director

Luis A. Ubiñas
 


  115



Table of Contents
ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
SCHEDULE II 
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  Years Ended March 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010  (In millions)
  
























 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts,
Price Protection and Returns
  
Balance atBeginningof Period
 
  
Charged toRevenue,Costs andExpenses
 
  
Charged(Credited)to OtherAccounts(a)
 
 
Deductions(b)
 
 
Balance atEnd ofPeriod
 

 Year Ended March 31, 2012
  
$
304
  
  
$
463
  
  
$
(13
) 
 
$
(502
) 
 
$
252
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year Ended March 31, 2011
  
$
217
  
  
$
565
  
  
$
18
  
 
$
(496
) 
 
$
304
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Year Ended March 31, 2010
  
$
217
  
  
$
515
  
  
$
—
  
 
$
(515
) 
 
$
217
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(a) 
 Primarily other reclassification
adjustments and the translation effect of using the average exchange rate for expense items and the year-end exchange rate for the balance sheet item (allowance account). 
 


(b) 
 Primarily the utilization of
returns allowance and price protection reserves. 
  116



Table of Contents




   ELECTRONIC ARTS INC.
 2012 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT  EXHIBIT INDEX   














 
  
  
  
 Incorporated by Reference
  

FiledHerewith

 Number
  
 Exhibit Title
  
 Form
  
 File No.
  
 Filing Date
  








  1.01
  
Purchase Agreement dated as of July 14, 2011 between EA and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/20/2011
  









  2.01
  
Agreement and Plan of Merger By and among EA, Plumpjack Acquisition Corporation, PopCap, David L. Roberts as earn-out representative, David L. Roberts, as shareholder
representative, and with respect to Articles VII, VIII and IX only, U.S. Bank National Association, as escrow agent dated as of July 11, 2011.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/12/2011
  









  3.01
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
11/03/2004
  









  3.02
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
05/11/2009
  









  4.01
  
Specimen Certificate of Registrant’s Common Stock.
  
10-K
  
000-17948
  
05/22/2009
  









  4.02
  
 Indenture (including form of Notes) with respect to EA’s 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 dated as of July 20, 2011 by
and between EA and U.S. Bank National Association.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/20/2011
  









10.01*
  
Registrant’s 1998 Directors’ Stock Option Plan and related documents, as amended.
  
S-8
  
333-84215
  
07/30/1999
  









10.02*
  
Form of Indemnity Agreement with Directors.
  
10-K
  
000-17948
  
06/04/2004
  









10.03*
  
Offer Letter for Employment at Electronic Arts Inc. to John Riccitiello, dated February 12, 2007.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
02/26/2007
  









10.04*
  
Offer Letter for Employment at Electronic Arts Inc. to Peter Moore, dated June 5, 2007.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/17/2007
  









10.05*
  
Electronic Arts Inc. Executive Bonus Plan.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/27/2007
  









10.06*
  
Electronic Arts Deferred Compensation Plan.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
08/06/2007
  









10.07*
  
Electronic Arts Key Employee Continuity Plan.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
02/11/2008
  









10.08*
  
First Amendment to the Electronic Arts Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated.
  
10-K
  
000-17948
  
05/22/2009
  









10.09*
  
EA Bonus Plan.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
11/08/2010
  









10.10*
  
Form of 2011 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
06/01/2011
  









10.11*
  
Electronic Arts Bonus Plan Addendum.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
06/01/2011
  









10.12*
  
2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, and related documents
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/29/2011
  









10.13*
  
2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/29/2011
  









10.14*
  
Offer Letter for Employment at Electronic Arts Inc. to Rajat Taneja, dated September 13, 2011
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
02/07/2012
  

  117



Table of Contents














 
 
  
  
 Incorporated by Reference
  

FiledHerewith

 Number
 
 Exhibit Title
  
 Form
  
 File No.
  
 Filing Date
  








10.15*
 
Transfer Letter of Kristian Segerstråle, dated December 8, 2011
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
02/07/2012
  









10.16
 
Lease Agreement by and between Registrant and Louisville Commerce Realty Corporation, dated April 1, 1999.
  
10-K
  
000-17948
  
06/29/1999
  









10.17
 
First Amendment of Lease by and between Louisville Commerce Realty Corporation and Electronic Arts Inc., dated February 23, 2004.
  
10-K
  
000-17948
  
06/04/2004
  









10.18
 
Lease agreement between ASP WT, L.L.C. and Tiburon Entertainment, Inc. for space at Summit Park I, dated June 15, 2004.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
08/03/2004
  









10.19
 
First amendment to lease, dated December 13, 2005, by and between Liberty Property Limited Partnership, a Pennsylvania limited partnership and Electronic Arts – Tiburon, a
Florida corporation f/k/a Tiburon Entertainment, Inc.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
02/08/2006
  









10.20
 
Agreement for Underlease relating to Onslow House, Guildford, Surrey, dated 7 February 2006, by and between The Standard Life Assurance Company and Electronic Arts Limited and
Electronic Arts Inc.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
02/08/2006
  









10.21
 
Second Amendment of Lease Agreement by and between US Industrial REIT II and Electronic Arts Inc., dated April 1, 2009.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
08/10/2009
  









10.22
 
Second Amendment to Lease, dated May 8, 2009, by and between Liberty Property Limited Partnership, a Pennsylvania limited partnership and Electronic Arts – Tiburon, a
Florida corporation f/k/a Tiburon Entertainment, Inc.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
08/10/2009
  









10.23
 
Third amendment to lease, dated December 24, 2009, by and between Liberty Property Limited Partnership, a Pennsylvania limited partnership and Electronic Arts – Tiburon, a
Florida corporation f/k/a Tiburon Entertainment, Inc.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
02/09/2010
  









10.24**
 
First Amended North American Territory Rider to the Global PlayStation® 3 Format Licensed Publisher Agreement, dated September 11, 2008, by and between the Electronic Arts Inc. and Sony Computer Entertainment America Inc.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
11/10/2009
  









10.25**
 
Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Limited Regional Rider to the Global PlayStation® 3 Format Licensed Publisher Agreement, dated December 17, 2008, by and between EA International (Studio and Publishing) Limited and Sony Computer Entertainment
Europe Limited.
  
10-Q
  
000-17948
  
11/10/2009
  

  118



Table of Contents




  
















 
 
  
  
 Incorporated by Reference
  

FiledHerewith
 

 Number
 
 Exhibit Title
  
 Form
  
 File No.
  
 Filing Date
  








10.26**
 
Global PlayStation® 3 Format Licensed
Publisher Agreement, dated September 11, 2008, by and between the Electronic Arts Inc. and Sony Computer Entertainment America Inc.
  
10-Q/A
  
000-17948
  
04/30/2010
  











10.27**
 
Global PlayStation® 3 Format Licensed
Publisher Agreement, dated December 17, 2008, by and between EA International (Studio and Publishing) Limited and Sony Computer Entertainment Europe Limited.
  
10-Q/A
  
000-17948
  
04/30/2010
  











10.28**
 
Xbox2 Publisher License Agreement, dated May 15, 2005, by and among Electronic Arts Inc., Electronic Arts C.V. and Microsoft Licensing, GP.
  
10-Q/A
  
000-17948
  
04/30/2010
  











10.29
 
Form of Stock Consideration Agreement, dated July 11, 2011 between EA and each of the founders and the chief executive officer of PopCap.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/12/2011
  











10.30
 
Form of Call Option Agreement dated as of July 14, 2011 between EA and each Option Counterparty.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/20/2011
  











10.31
 
Form of Warrant Agreement dated July 14, 2011 between EA and each Option Counterparty.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/20/2011
  











10.32
 
Form of Additional Call Option Agreement dated July 18, 2011 between EA and each Option Counterparty.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/20/2011
  











10.33
 
Form of Additional Warrant Agreement dated July 18, 2011 between EA and each Option Counterparty.
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
07/20/2011
  











10.34*
 
Form of 2012 Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
  
8-K
  
000-17948
  
05/18/2011
  











21.01
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








23.01
 
Consent of KPMG LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








31.01
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








31.02
 
Certification of Interim Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  







 Additional exhibits furnished with this report:
  

  

  

  











32.01
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








32.02
 
Certification of Interim Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  
  119



Table of Contents
















 
  
  
  
 Incorporated by Reference
  

FiledHerewith
 

 Number
  
 Exhibit Title
  
 Form
  
 File No.
  
 Filing Date
  








101.INS†
  
XBRL Instance Document.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








101.SCH†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








101.CAL†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








101.DEF†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








101.LAB†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  








101.PRE†
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.
  

  

  

  
 
X
  
  


*
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.   


**
Portions of these documents have been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for confidential treatment that was
granted in accordance with Exchange Act Rule 24b-2.   


† 
 Attached as Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2012 are the following formatted in eXtensible Business
Reporting Language (“XBRL”): (1) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (2) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (3) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Loss, (5) Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows, and (6) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  120




