
10-K
1
a2208232z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION Table of Contents












Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549 






FORM 10-K 
ý    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 or 
o    TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from              to             . Commission file Number 1-34242 



(Exact Name of registrant as specified in its charter) 











Pennsylvania
 
 23-2222567


 (State or other jurisdiction of
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)


incorporation or organization)
 
 


 4 Brandywine Avenue, Downingtown, Pennsylvania
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
 19335
(Zip Code)




Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 269-1040
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act: N/A
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:
Common stock, par value $1.00 per share
(Title of class)




Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. o Yes ý No 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. o Yes ý No 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. ý Yes o No 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). ý Yes o No 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ý 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer," and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 















 Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer o
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a smaller
reporting company)
 
 Smaller reporting company ý




Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). o Yes ý No 
The aggregate market value of the shares of common stock of the Registrant issued and outstanding on June 30, 2011, which excludes 395,000 shares held by all directors,
officers and affiliates of the Registrant as a group, was approximately $23.1 million. This figure is based on the closing price of $10.00 per share of the Registrant's common stock on
June 30, 2011, the last business day of the Registrant's second fiscal quarter. 
As
of March 21, 2012, the Registrant had outstanding 2,702,205 shares of Common Stock, $1 par value per share. 
DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions
of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. 
  

   


 















 
 
  DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION     Table of Contents     

 
















Part I
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
Item 1.
 
Business
 
2



 
 
Item 1A.
 
Risk Factors
 
16



 
 
Item 1B.
 
Unresolved Staff Comments
 
16



 
 
Item 2.
 
Properties
 
16



 
 
Item 3.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
16



 
 
Item 4.
 
Mine Safety Disclosures
 
16


Part II
 

 
 

 
 

 



 
 
Item 5.
 
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
17



 
 
Item 6.
 
Selected Financial Data
 
19



 
 
Item 7.
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
20



 
 
Item 7A.
 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
48



 
 
Item 8.
 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
50



 
 
Item 9.
 
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
94



 
 
Item 9A.
 
Controls and Procedures
 
94



 
 
Item 9B.
 
Other Information
 
94


Part III
 

 
 

 
 

 



 
 
Item 10.
 
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
94



 
 
Item 11.
 
Executive Compensation
 
94



 
 
Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
95



 
 
Item 13.
 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
95



 
 
Item 14.
 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
95


Part IV
 

 
 

 
 

 



 
 
Item 15.
 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
 
96



SIGNATURES
 
97









 











Table of Contents 
DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION
FORM 10-K 
 
 
  Forward-Looking Statements     
        DNB Financial Corp. (the "Corporation"), may from time to time make written or oral "forward-looking statements," including statements
contained in DNB's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto and thereto), in its reports to
stockholders and in other communications by DNB, which are made in good faith by DNB pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
        These
forward-looking statements include statements with respect to DNB's beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations, anticipations, estimates and intentions, that are subject to
significant risks and uncertainties, and are subject to change based on various factors (some of which are beyond DNB's control). The words "may," "could," "should," "would,""will," "believe,"
"anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause DNB's financial
performance to differ materially from the plans, objectives, expectations, estimates and intentions expressed in such forward-looking statements: the strength of the United States economy in general
and the strength of the local economies in which DNB conducts operations; the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the recent downgrade, and any future downgrades, in the credit rating of the U.S. Government and federal agencies; inflation, interest rate, market and
monetary fluctuations; the timely development of and acceptance of new products and services of DNB and the perceived overall value of these products and services by users, including the features,
pricing and quality compared to competitors' products and services; the willingness of users to substitute competitors' products and services for DNB's products and services; the success of DNB in
gaining regulatory approval of its products and services, when required; the impact of changes in laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions (including laws concerning taxes, banking,
securities and insurance); technological changes; acquisitions; changes in consumer spending and saving habits; the nature, extent, and timing of governmental actions and reforms, including the rules
of participation for the Trouble Asset Relief Program voluntary Capital Purchase Program under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which may be changed unilaterally and retroactively by
legislative or regulatory actions; and the success of DNB at managing the risks involved in the foregoing. 
        DNB
cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not exclusive. Readers are also cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect
management's analysis only as of the date of this report, even if subsequently made available by DNB on its website or otherwise. DNB does not undertake to update any forward-looking statement,
whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of DNB to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report. 
        For
a complete discussion of the assumptions, risks and uncertainties related to our business, you are encouraged to review our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
including this Form 10-K, as well as any changes in risk factors that we may identify in our quarterly or other reports filed with the SEC. 
1



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Part I     
  
 
Item 1.        Business     
(a)
General Description of Registrant's Business and Its Development 
        DNB
Financial Corporation (the "Registrant" or "DNB"), a Pennsylvania business corporation, is a bank holding company registered with and supervised by the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). The Registrant was incorporated on October 28, 1982 and commenced operations on July 1, 1983 upon consummation of the acquisition of all
of the outstanding stock of Downingtown National Bank, now known as DNB First, National Association (the "Bank"). Since commencing operations, DNB's business has consisted primarily of managing and
supervising the Bank, and its principal source of income has been derived from the Bank. At December 31, 2011, DNB had total consolidated assets, total liabilities and stockholders' equity of
$607.1 million, $556.0 million, and $51.1 million, respectively. 
        The
Bank was organized in 1860. The Bank is a national banking association that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"). The Bank is a full service commercial bank providing a wide range of services to individuals and small to medium sized businesses in the southeastern Pennsylvania
market area, including accepting time, demand, and savings deposits and making secured and unsecured commercial, real estate and consumer loans. In addition, the Bank has eleven full service and two
limited service branches and a full-service wealth management group known as "DNB First Wealth Management". The Bank's financial subsidiary, DNB Financial Services, Inc., (also know
as "DNB Investments & Insurance") is a Pennsylvania licensed insurance agency, which, together with the Bank, sells a broad variety of insurance and investment products. The Bank's other
subsidiaries are Downco, Inc. and DN Acquisition Company, Inc. which were incorporated in December 1995 and December 2008, respectively, for the purpose of acquiring and holding Other
Real Estate Owned acquired through foreclosure or deed in-lieu-of foreclosure, as well as Bank-occupied real estate. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, the Registrant and the Bank operate as one segment, and therefore do not report segment financial information. 
        The
Bank's headquarters is located at 4 Brandywine Avenue, Downingtown, Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank had total assets of $606.7 million, total deposits
of $497.9 million and total stockholders' equity of $60.0 million. The Bank's business is not seasonal in nature. The FDIC, to the extent provided by law, insures its deposits. On
December 31, 2011, the Bank had 107 full-time employees and 23 part-time employees. 
        The
Bank derives its income principally from interest charged on loans and, to a lesser extent, interest earned on investments, fees received in connection with the origination of loans,
wealth management and other services. The Bank's principal expenses are interest expense on deposits and borrowings and operating expenses. Funds for activities are provided principally by operating
revenues, deposit growth and the repayment of outstanding loans and investments. 
        The
Bank encounters vigorous competition from a number of sources, including other commercial banks, thrift institutions, other financial institutions and financial intermediaries. In
addition to commercial banks, Federal and state savings and loan associations, savings banks, credit unions and industrial savings banks actively compete in the Bank's market area to provide a wide
variety of banking services. Mortgage banking firms, real estate investment trusts, finance companies, insurance companies, leasing companies and brokerage companies, financial affiliates of
industrial companies and certain government agencies provide additional competition for loans and for certain financial services. The Bank also competes for interest-bearing funds with a number of
other financial intermediaries, which offer a diverse range of investment alternatives, including brokerage firms and mutual fund companies. 
2



 
Table of Contents
(b)
Financial Information About Geographic Areas 
        The
geographic information required by Item 101(d) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, is impracticable for the Registrant
to calculate, however, the Registrant does not believe that a material amount of revenues in any of the last three years were attributable to customers outside of the United States, nor does it
believe that a material amount of its long-lived assets in any of the past three years were located outside of the United States. 
 
 
  Supervision and Regulation — Registrant     
        Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley") imposes significant requirements and
restrictions on publicly-held companies, such as the Registrant. These provisions include requirements governing the composition and responsibilities of audit committees, financial
disclosures and reporting and restrictions on personal loans to directors and officers. Sarbanes-Oxley, among other things, mandates chief executive and chief financial officer certifications of
periodic financial reports, additional financial disclosures concerning off-balance sheet items, and speedier transaction reporting requirements for executive officers, directors and 10%
shareholders. Rules promulgated by the SEC pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley impose substantial reporting and compliance obligations on management and boards of directors, and new obligations and
restrictions have been placed on auditors and audit committees that are intended to enhance their independence from management. In addition, penalties for non-compliance with the Federal
securities laws are heightened. The Registrant has, and will incur, significant additional expense complying with Sarbanes-Oxley requirements. 
 
 
  Federal Banking Laws     
        The Registrant is subject to a number of complex Federal banking laws, most notably the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act of
1956, as amended ("Bank Holding Company Act") and the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 ("Change in Control Act"), and to supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. 
 
 
  Bank Holding Company Act — Financial Holding Companies     
        The Bank Holding Company Act requires a "company" (including the Registrant) to secure the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board
before it owns or controls, directly or indirectly, more than five percent (5%) of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any bank. It also prohibits acquisition by any "company"
(including the Registrant) of more than five percent (5%) of the voting shares of, or interest in, or all or substantially all of the assets of, any bank located outside of the state in which a
current bank subsidiary is located unless such acquisition is specifically authorized by laws of the state in which such bank is located. A "bank holding company" (including the Registrant) is
prohibited from engaging in or acquiring direct or indirect control of more
than five percent (5%) of the voting shares of any company engaged in non-banking activities unless the Federal Reserve Board, by order or regulation, has found such activities to be so
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In making this determination, the Federal Reserve Board considers whether the performance of these
activities by a bank holding company would offer benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects. Applications under the Bank Holding Company Act and the Change in Control Act are
subject to review, based upon the record of compliance of the applicant with the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA"). See further discussion below. 
        The
Registrant is required to file an annual report with the Federal Reserve Board and any additional information that the Federal Reserve Board may require pursuant to the Bank Holding
Company Act. The Federal Reserve Board may also make examinations of the Registrant and any or all of its subsidiaries. Further, under Section 106 of the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding
Company Act and the Federal Reserve Board's regulations, a bank holding company and its subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any
extension of credit or provision of credit or provision of 
3



 
Table of Contents
any
property or services. The so-called "anti-tie-in" provisions state generally that a bank may not extend credit, lease, sell property or furnish any service to a
customer on the condition that the customer provide additional credit or service to the bank, to its bank holding company or to any other subsidiary of its bank holding company or on the condition
that the customer not obtain other credit or service from a competitor of the bank, its bank holding company or any subsidiary of its bank holding company. 
        Permitted Non-Banking Activities.  The Federal Reserve Board permits bank holding companies to engage in
non-banking activities so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. A number of activities are authorized by Federal Reserve Board
regulation, while other activities require prior Federal Reserve Board approval. The types of permissible activities are subject to change by the Federal Reserve Board. Revisions to the Bank Holding
Company Act contained in the Federal Gramm-Leach Bliley Act of 1999 permit certain eligible bank holding companies to qualify as "financial holding companies" and thereupon engage in a wider variety
of financial services such as securities and insurance activities. 
        Gramm-Leach Bliley Act of 1999 ("GLB").  This law repeals certain restrictions on bank and securities firm affiliations, and
allows bank holding companies to elect to be treated as a "financial holding company" that can engage in approved "financial activities," including insurance, securities underwriting and merchant
banking. Banks without holding companies can engage in many of these new financial activities through a "financial subsidiary." The law also mandates functional regulation of bank securities
activities. Banks' exemption from broker-dealer regulation would be limited to, for example, trust, safekeeping, custodian, shareholder and employee benefit plans, sweep accounts, private
placements (under certain conditions), self-directed IRAs, third party networking arrangements to offer brokerage services to bank customers, and the like. It also requires banks that
advise mutual funds to register as investment advisers. The legislation provides for state regulation of insurance, subject to certain specified state preemption standards. It establishes which
insurance products banks and bank subsidiaries may provide as principal or underwriter, and prohibits bank underwriting of title insurance, but also preempts state laws interfering with affiliations.
GLB prohibits approval of new de novo thrift charter applications by commercial entities and limits sales of existing so-called "unitary" thrifts to commercial entities. The law bars
banks, savings and loans, credit unions, securities firms and insurance companies, as well as other "financial institutions," from disclosing customer account numbers or access codes to unaffiliated
third parties for telemarketing or other direct marketing purposes, and enables customers of financial institutions to "opt out" of having their personal financial information shared with unaffiliated
third parties, subject to exceptions related to the processing of customer transactions and joint financial services marketing arrangements with third parties, as long as the institution discloses the
activity to its customers and requires the third party to keep the information confidential. It requires policies on privacy and disclosure of information to be disclosed annually, requires federal
regulators to adopt comprehensive regulations for ensuring the security and confidentiality of consumers' personal information, and allows state laws to give consumers greater privacy protections. The
GLB is likely to increase the competition the Bank faces, and this increased competition is likely to come from a wider variety of non-banking competitors as well as banks. 
 
 
  Change in Bank Control Act     
        Under the Change in Control Act, no person, acting directly or indirectly or through or in concert with one or more other persons, may
acquire "control" of any Federally insured depository institution unless the appropriate Federal banking agency has been given 60 days prior written notice of the proposed acquisition and
within that period has not issued a notice disapproving of the proposed acquisition or has issued written notice of its intent not to disapprove the action. The period for the agency's disapproval may
be extended by the agency. Upon receiving such notice, the Federal agency is required to provide a copy to the appropriate state regulatory agency, if the institution of which control is to be
acquired is state chartered, and the Federal agency is obligated to give due consideration to the views and recommendations 
4



 
Table of Contents
of
the state agency. Upon receiving a notice, the Federal agency is also required to conduct an investigation of each person involved in the proposed acquisition. Notice of such proposal is to be
published and public comment solicited thereon. A proposal may be disapproved by the Federal agency if the proposal would have anticompetitive effects, if the proposal would jeopardize the financial
stability of the institution to be acquired or prejudice the interests of its depositors, if the competence, experience or integrity of any acquiring person or proposed management personnel indicates
that it would not be in the interest of depositors or the public to permit such person to control the institution,
if any acquiring person fails to furnish the Federal agency with all information required by the agency, or if the Federal agency determines that the proposed transaction would result in an adverse
effect on a deposit insurance fund. In addition, the Change in Control Act requires that, whenever any Federally insured depository institution makes a loan or loans secured, or to be secured, by 25%
or more of the outstanding voting stock of a Federally insured depository institution, the president or chief executive officer of the lending bank must promptly report such fact to the appropriate
Federal banking agency regulating the institution whose stock secures the loan or loans. 
        Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP).  In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial
markets, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") was signed into law and established the Troubled Assets Relief Program known as TARP administered by the
U.S. Treasury Department. As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP") to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the
purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. In connection with EESA, there have been numerous
actions by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to further the economic and banking industry stabilization efforts under EESA. 
        The
American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 (sometimes called ARRA), which became effective February 17, 2009, contains expansive new restrictions on executive compensation
for financial institutions such as the Registrant that participate in the CPP. ARRA amends EESA by continuing all the same compensation and governance restrictions. It also adds the following major
new requirements so long as the Registrant has any obligations under the CPP (other than the warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury): prohibition on payment of any "bonus,
retention award, or incentive compensation" to the Registrant's chief executive officer, other than bonus amounts payable pursuant to agreements in effect on or before February 11, 2009, but
permitting the Registrant to issue "long-term" restricted stock, with a value not exceeding one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the
stock, and not fully vesting until after CPP obligations have been satisfied; requiring every company receiving CPP assistance to permit a non-binding shareholder vote to approve the
compensation of executives as disclosed in the Registrant's proxy statement; prohibiting any payment to a senior executive officer or any of the next five most highly-compensated employees for
departure from the Registrant for any reason, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; extending the EESA clawback of bonus or other incentive payment based on materially
inaccurate financial or other performance criteria to the next 20 most highly compensated employees in addition to the senior executive officers; prohibiting a CPP participant from implementing any
compensation plan that that would encourage manipulation of the reported earnings of the Registrant to enhance the compensation of any of its employees; requiring our Benefits & Compensation
Committee to meet at least semiannually to discuss and evaluate employee compensation plans in light of an assessment of any risk to the Registrant posed by such plans; requiring the chief executive
officer and chief financial officer to provide a written certification of compliance with the executive compensation restrictions in ARRA in a registrant's annual filings with the SEC; and requiring
each CPP participant to implement a company-wide policy regarding excessive or luxury expenditures, including excessive expenditures on entertainment or events, office and facility
renovations, aviation or other transportation services. ARRA requires the Treasury Department and the SEC to issue rules to implement its new executive compensation restrictions. On June 10,
2009, the Treasury Department announced an interim final rule on the executive compensation standards for 
5



 
Table of Contents
recipients
of TARP funds. The interim final rule provides that it supersedes all prior rules and guidance on executive compensation limitations under the TARP program. Among other things, in terms of
its application to the Bank, the interim final rule contains the following provisions: 
        1.    Limitations on Executive Compensation for Companies Receiving TARP Assistance.    The interim final rule: 


•Limits bonuses paid to the most highly compensated executive officer. 
•Prohibits any golden parachute payment to a senior executive officer or any of the next 5 most highly compensated
employees. While ARRA limited the definition of golden parachutes to payments for an employee's departure for any reason, the rule also includes payments made in connection with a change in control of
the Bank. 
•Implements the ARRA mandate that bonuses paid to senior executive officers and next 20 most highly compensated employees
be subject to a clawback if the payment was based on materially inaccurate performance criteria, and requires that the TARP recipient actually exercise its clawback rights in such a case unless the
TARP recipient can demonstrate that it would be unreasonable to do so (for example, if the expense of enforcing the clawback right exceeds the benefits of doing so). 

        2.    Implementation of ARRA Requirements for Compensation Practices.    The rule: 


•Expands on EESA's requirement that compensation plans for senior executive officers be limited to avoid incentives for
unnecessary risk-taking, ARRA's expansion of that requirement to cover all employee compensation plans, and ARRA's requirement that no employee compensation plan encourage the manipulation
of earnings, by requiring that a bank's compensation committee of the financial institution conduct an analysis of whether compensation, plans or practices encourage unnecessary
risk-taking. 
•Implements ARRA's requirement that the board of directors of each TARP recipient put in place a company-wide
policy on luxury or excessive expenditures and requires that the policy mandate prompt internal reporting of any violations of the policy, and that the CEO and the CFO of each TARP recipient certify
that any expenditure requiring the approval of the board of directors or a senior executive officer was properly approved. 
•Implements and clarifies ARRA's shareholder "say on pay" resolution requirement. 

        3.    Additional Compensation and Governance Standards.    The rule adopts the following new requirements: 


•Prohibits the payment to senior executive officers and the 20 next most highly compensated employees of a tax
"gross-up," or a payment to cover taxes due on compensation such as golden parachutes and perquisites. 
•Requires a TARP recipient such as the Bank to disclose to the Treasury Department and its primary federal regulator any
perquisites provided to any employee subject to ARRA's bonus limitations with total value exceeding $25,000 and, in that case, provide those agencies a narrative description of, and justification for,
the benefit. 
•Requires a TARP recipient such as the Bank to disclose to the Treasury Department and its primary federal regulator
whether the Bank or its compensation committee engaged a compensation consultant and to provide to those agencies a narrative description of the services provided by any such consultant, including any
non-compensation related services provided by the consultant or any of its affiliates, as well as a description of the use of any "benchmarking" procedures in the consultant's analysis. 

6



 
Table of Contents
        4.    Certification Requirements.    The rule requires TARP recipients to provide: 


•Within ninety days of the completion of each fiscal year, a TARP recipient's principal executive officer and principal
financial officer must provide a certification to its primary federal regulatory agency and the Treasury Department regarding the TARP recipient's compliance with rules established by EESA, ARRA and
the interim final rule. 
•At least once each fiscal year, a TARP recipient's compensation committee must provide to its primary federal regulator
and the Treasury Department a narrative description identifying each senior executive officer compensation plan and explaining how the plan does not encourage its senior executive officers to take
unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the TARP recipient. The compensation committee must also identify each employee compensation plan (whether or not it covers senior executive
officers), explain how any unnecessary risks posed by the plan have been limited, and further explain how the plan does not encourage the manipulation of reported earnings to enhance the compensation
of any employee. 

        Participation in U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program  On January 30, 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program
administered by the United States Department of the Treasury, the Registrant entered into a Letter Agreement and a Securities Purchase Agreement with the U.S. Treasury, pursuant to which the
Registrant issued and sold on January 30, 2009, and the U.S. Treasury purchased for cash on that date (i) 11,750 shares of the Registrant's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock, Series 2008A, par value $10.00 per share, having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the "CPP Shares"), and (ii) a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 186,311
shares of the Registrant's common stock, $1.00 par value, at an exercise price of $9.46 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $11,750,000 in cash. The issuance and sale of these securities was
a private placement exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. 
        On
August 4, 2011, DNB entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to which DNB issued and sold to the Treasury 13,000 shares of its
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A ("Series 2011A Preferred Stock"), having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share for aggregate proceeds of
$13.0 million. The Securities Purchase Agreement was entered into, and the Series 2011A Preferred Stock was issued, pursuant to the Treasury's Small Business Lending Fund program
("SBLF"), a $30 billion fund
established under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, that encourages lending to small businesses by providing capital to qualified community banks with assets of less than $10 billion. The
securities sold in this transaction were exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as a transaction by DNB not involving a public offering. Of the
$13.0 million in aggregate proceeds, $11,879,000 was used on August 4, 2011 to repurchase all CPP Shares ($11,750,000 was paid in principal and $128,900 in dividends related to the CPP
Shares) held by the Treasury as described above. 
        On
September 21, 2011, DNB entered into a letter agreement (the "Warrant Letter Agreement") with the Treasury. Pursuant to the Warrant Letter Agreement, DNB Financial Corporation
repurchased from the Treasury the warrant to purchase 186,311 shares of DNB Financial Corporation's common stock issued to the Treasury in January 2009 under CPP. DNB Financial Corporation paid a
purchase price of $458,000 for the warrant. 
        Prior
to the date we repurchased the CPP Shares, we were subject to certain restrictions under the TARP requirements with respect to share repurchases, payments of dividends to our
common stock shareholders, and our executive compensation. Specifically, we were limited in our ability to pay cash dividend on our common stock nor could we engage in any share repurchases, without
prior approval of the Treasury. With respect to our executive compensation, during the period in which the CPP Shares were outstanding, we were prohibiting from (i) paying or accruing bonuses,
retention awards and incentive compensation, other than qualifying long-term restricted stock or pursuant to certain preexisting employment contracts, to our five most highly-compensated
employees, (ii) providing severance benefits, 
7



 
Table of Contents
or
other benefits due to a change in control of DNB, to our senior executive officers ("SEOs") and next five most highly compensated employees, and (iii) providing tax "gross-ups"
to our SEOs and the next 20 most highly compensated employees. We were also required to make subject to clawback any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation paid to any of the SEOs and any
of the next twenty most highly compensated employees if such compensation was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria, and to
establish and maintain a policy on luxury or excessive expenditures. In addition, the compensation committee of our board of directors was required to semi-annually evaluate and review the
risks involved in employee compensation plans. Finally, for the 2011 taxable year, we are prohibited from deducting more than $500,000 in annual compensation, including performance-based compensation,
to each of the executives covered under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m). Except for this compensation deduction limitation, the above requirements and restrictions no longer apply to DNB
as of August 4, 2011. 
        Participation in the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.  Due to the recent difficult economic conditions, deposit
insurance per account owner has been raised to $250,000 for all types of accounts.
That coverage was made permanent by the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, the FDIC adopted an optional Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program by which, for a fee, noninterest-bearing transaction
accounts would receive unlimited insurance coverage until June 30, 2010, subsequently extended to December 31, 2010, and certain senior unsecured debt issued by institutions and their
holding companies between October 13, 2008 and October 31, 2009 would be guaranteed by the FDIC through June 30, 2012, or in some cases, December 31, 2012. The
Dodd-Frank Act has provided for continued unlimited coverage for certain non-interest bearing accounts until December 31, 2012 (see discussion of Dodd-Frank
Act on page 14). 
        Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  The federal government is considering a variety of
reforms related to banking and the financial industry including, without limitation, the newly adopted Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is intended to promote financial
stability in the U.S., reduce the risk of bailouts and protect against abusive financial services practices by improving accountability and transparency in the financial system and ending "to big to
fail" institutions. It is the broadest overhaul of the U.S. financial system since the Great Depression, and much of its impact will be determined by the scope and substance of many regulations that
will need to be adopted by various regulatory agencies to implement its provisions. For these reasons, the overall impact on DNB and its subsidiaries is unknown at this time. 
        The
Dodd-Frank Act delegates to various federal agencies the task of implementing its many provisions through regulation. Hundreds of new federal regulations, studies and
reports addressing all of the major areas of the new law, including the regulation of banks and their holding companies, will be required, ensuring that federal rules and policies in this area will be
further developing for months and years to come. Based on the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and anticipated implementing regulations, it is highly likely that banks and thrifts as well
as their holding companies will be subject to significantly increased regulation and compliance obligations. 
        The
Dodd-Frank Act could require us to make material expenditures, in particular personnel training costs and additional compliance expenses, or otherwise adversely affect
our business or financial results. It could also require us to change certain of our business practices, adversely affect our ability to pursue business opportunities we might otherwise consider
engaging in, cause business disruptions and/or have other impacts that are as-of-yet unknown to DNB and the Bank. Failure to comply with these laws or regulations, even if
inadvertent, could result in negative publicity, fines or additional licensing expenses, any of which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations. For example, a provision
of the Dodd-Frank Act is intended to preclude bank holding companies from treating future trust preferred securities issuances as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital adequacy
purposes. This provision may narrow the number of possible capital raising opportunities DNB and other bank holding companies might have in the future. As another example, the new law establishes the
Consumer Financial 
8



 
Table of Contents
Protection
Bureau, which has been given substantive rule-making authority under most of the consumer protection regulations affecting the Bank and its customers. The Bureau and new rules
it will issue may materially affect the methods and costs of compliance by the Bank in connection with future consumer related transactions. 
 
 
  Pennsylvania Banking Laws     
        Under the Pennsylvania Banking Code of 1965, as amended ("PA Code"), the Registrant is permitted to control an unlimited number of
banks, subject to prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board as more fully described above. The PA Code authorizes reciprocal interstate banking without any geographic limitation. Reciprocity between
states exists when a foreign state's law authorizes Pennsylvania bank holding companies to acquire banks or bank holding companies located in that state on terms and conditions substantially no more
restrictive than those applicable to such an acquisition by a bank holding company located in that state. Interstate ownership of banks in Pennsylvania with banks in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey,
Ohio, New York and other states is currently authorized. However, state laws still restrict de novo formations of branches in other states. Pennsylvania law also provides Pennsylvania state chartered
institutions elective parity with the power of national banks, federal thrifts, and state-chartered institutions in other states as authorized by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("Competing
Institutions"). In some cases, this may give state chartered institutions broader powers than national banks such as the Bank, and may increase competition the Bank faces from other banking
institutions. 
 
 
  Environmental Laws     
        The Registrant, the Bank and the Bank's customers are subject in the course of their activities to a growing number of Federal, state
and local environmental laws and regulations. Neither the Registrant nor the Bank anticipates that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will have any material effect on capital
expenditures, earnings, or on its competitive positions. 
 
 
  Supervision and Regulation — Bank     
        The operations of the Bank are subject to Federal and State statutes applicable to banks chartered under the banking laws of the United
States, to members of the Federal Reserve System and to banks whose deposits are insured by the FDIC. Bank operations are also subject to regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
("OCC"), the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. 
        The
primary supervisory authority of the Bank is the OCC, who regularly examines the Bank. The OCC has the authority to prevent a national bank from engaging in an unsafe or unsound
practice in conducting its business. 
        Federal
and state banking laws and regulations govern, among other things, the scope of a bank's business, the investments a bank may make, the reserves against deposits a bank must
maintain, loans a bank makes and collateral it takes, the activities of a bank with respect to mergers and consolidations and the establishment of branches. All nationally and state-chartered banks in
Pennsylvania are permitted to maintain branch offices in any county of the state. National bank branches may be established only after approval by the OCC. It is the general policy of the OCC to
approve applications to establish and operate domestic branches, including ATMs and other automated devices that take deposits, provided that approval would not violate applicable Federal or
state laws regarding the establishment of such branches. The OCC reserves the right to deny an application or grant approval subject to conditions if (1) there are significant supervisory
concerns with respect to the applicant or affiliated organizations, (2) in accordance with CRA, the applicant's record of helping meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low
and moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound operation, is less than satisfactory, or (3) any financial or other business arrangement, direct or indirect, involving the
proposed branch or device and bank "insiders" (directors, officers, employees and 10% or greater shareholders) involves terms and conditions more favorable to the insiders than would be available in a
comparable transaction with unrelated parties. 
9




 











Table of Contents 
        The Bank, as a subsidiary of a bank holding company, is subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on any extensions of credit to the bank
holding company or its subsidiaries, on investments in the stock or other securities of the bank holding company or its subsidiaries and on taking such stock or securities as collateral for loans. The
Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Board regulations also place certain limitations and reporting requirements on extensions of credit by a bank to principal shareholders of its parent holding
company, among others, and to related interests of such principal shareholders. In addition, such legislation and regulations may affect the terms upon which any person becoming a principal
shareholder of a holding company may obtain credit from banks with which the subsidiary bank maintains a correspondent relationship. 
 
 
  Capital Adequacy     
        Federal banking laws impose on banks certain minimum requirements for capital adequacy. Federal banking agencies have issued certain
"risk-based capital" guidelines, and certain "leverage" requirements on member banks such as the Bank. Banking regulators have authority to require higher minimum capital ratios for an
individual bank or bank holding company in view of its circumstances. 
         Minimum Capital Ratios. The risk-based guidelines require all banks to maintain two "risk-weighted assets" ratios. The first
is a minimum ratio of total capital ("Tier 1" and "Tier 2" capital) to risk-weighted assets equal to 8.00%; the second is a minimum ratio of "Tier 1" capital to
risk-weighted assets equal to 4.00%. Assets are assigned to five risk categories, with higher levels of capital being required for the categories perceived as representing greater risk. In
making the calculation, certain intangible assets must be deducted from the capital base. The risk-based capital rules are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive
to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. 
        The
risk-based capital rules also account for interest rate risk. Institutions with interest rate risk exposure above a normal level would be required to hold extra capital
in proportion to that risk. A bank's exposure to declines in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates is a factor that the banking agencies will consider in evaluating a
bank's capital adequacy. The rule does not codify an explicit minimum capital charge for interest rate risk. The Bank currently monitors and manages its assets and liabilities for interest rate risk,
and management believes that the interest rate risk rules which have been implemented and proposed will not materially adversely affect our operations. 
        The
"leverage" ratio rules require banks which are rated the highest in the composite areas of capital, asset quality, management, earnings, liquidity and sensitivity to market risk to
maintain a ratio of "Tier 1" capital to "adjusted total assets" (equal to the bank's average total assets as stated in its most recent quarterly Call Report filed with its primary federal
banking regulator, minus end-of-quarter intangible assets that are deducted from Tier 1 capital) of not less than 3.00%. For banks which are not the most highly rated,
the minimum "leverage" ratio will range from 4.00% to 5.00%, or higher at the discretion of the bank's primary federal regulator, and is required to be at a level commensurate with the nature of the
level of risk of the bank's condition and activities. 
        For
purposes of the capital requirements, "Tier 1" or "core" capital is defined to include common stockholders' equity and certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred
stock and related
surplus. "Tier 2" or "qualifying supplementary" capital is defined to include a bank's allowance for loan and lease losses up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets, plus certain types of
preferred stock and related surplus, certain "hybrid capital instruments" and certain term subordinated debt instruments. 
        The
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the "Basel Committee") released a comprehensive list of proposals for changes to capital, leverage, and liquidity requirements for banks in
December 2009 (commonly referred to as "Basel III"). In July 2010, the Basel Committee announced the design for its capital and liquidity reform proposals. 
10



 
Table of Contents
        In
September 2010, the oversight body of the Basel Committee announced minimum capital ratios and transition periods providing: (i) the minimum requirement for the Tier 1
common equity ratio will be increased from the current 2.0% level to 4.5% (to be phased in by January 1, 2015); (ii) the minimum requirement for the Tier 1 capital ratio will be
increased from the current 4.0% to 6.0% (to be phased in by January 1, 2015); (iii) an additional 2.5% of Tier 1 common equity to total risk-weighted assets (to be
phased in between January 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019; and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0% (to be tested starting January 1, 2013). The proposals also narrow the
definition of capital, excluding instruments that no longer qualify as Tier 1 common equity as of January 1, 2013, and phasing out other instruments over several years. It is unclear how
U.S. banking regulators will define "well-capitalized" in their implementation of Basel III. 
        The
liquidity proposals under Basel III include: (i) a liquidity coverage ratio (to become effective January 1, 2015); (ii) a net stable funding ratio (to become
effective January 1, 2018); and (iii) a set of monitoring tools for banks to report minimum types of information to their regulatory supervisors. 
        In
December 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ("the Basel Committee") presented to the public the Basel III rules text, which proposes new global regulatory standards on
bank capital adequacy and liquidity. The Basel Committee continued to refine Basel III during 2011 and seeks to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more
resilient banking sector. The framework sets out tougher capital requirements, the introduction of a new leverage ratio calculation, higher requirements for minimum capital ratios, and higher
risk-weightings for assets, as they relate to capital calculations. Basel III also establishes two minimum standards for liquidity to promote short-term resilience, as well as
resilience over a longer period of time through a stable maturity structure of assets and liabilities. 
        Capital
and liquidity standards consistent with Basel III will be formally implemented in the United States through a series of rulemakings. The U.S. bank agencies intend to issue a
notice of proposed
rulemaking during the first quarter of 2012 and a final rule later in the year that would implement the Basel III capital reforms. While it continues to evaluate the impact of this framework on its
operations and reporting, DNB's capital ratios as of December 31, 2011 are well in excess of those minimum ratios proposed by both Basel III and the Federal Reserve. 
         Prompt Corrective Action. Federal banking law mandates certain "prompt corrective actions," which Federal banking agencies are required to take, and
certain actions which they have discretion to take, based upon the capital category into which a Federally regulated depository institution falls. Regulations have been adopted by the Federal bank
regulatory agencies setting forth detailed procedures and criteria for implementing prompt corrective action in the case of any institution that is not adequately capitalized. Under the rules, an
institution will be deemed to be "adequately capitalized" or better if it exceeds the minimum Federal regulatory capital requirements. However, it will be deemed "undercapitalized" if it fails to meet
the minimum capital requirements, "significantly undercapitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
that is less than 3.0%, or a leverage ratio that is less than 3.0%, and "critically undercapitalized" if the institution has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than
2.0%. The rules require an undercapitalized institution to file a written capital restoration plan, along with a performance guaranty by its holding company or a third party. In addition, an
undercapitalized institution becomes subject to certain automatic restrictions including a prohibition on the payment of dividends, a limitation on asset growth and expansion, and in certain cases, a
limitation on the payment of bonuses or raises to senior executive officers, and a prohibition on the payment of certain "management fees" to any "controlling person". Institutions that are classified
as undercapitalized are also subject to certain additional supervisory actions, including increased reporting burdens and regulatory monitoring, a limitation on the institution's ability to make
acquisitions, open new branch offices, or engage in new lines of business, obligations to raise additional capital, restrictions on transactions with affiliates, and restrictions on interest rates
paid by the institution on deposits. In certain cases, bank regulatory agencies may require replacement of senior executive officers or directors, or sale of 
11



 
Table of Contents
the
institution to a willing purchaser. If an institution is deemed to be "critically undercapitalized" and continues in that category for four quarters, the statute requires, with certain narrowly
limited exceptions, that the institution be placed in receivership. 
        DNB's
management believes that the Bank is "well capitalized" for regulatory capital purposes. Please see the table detailing the Bank's compliance with minimum capital ratios, at
footnote 17 ("Regulatory Matters") to DNB's audited financial statements on this Form 10-K. 
        Under
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the OCC possesses the power to prohibit institutions regulated by it, such as the Bank, from engaging in any activity that would be an unsafe and
unsound banking practice and in violation of the law. Moreover, Federal law enactments have expanded the circumstances under which officers or directors of a bank may be removed by the institution's
Federal supervisory agency; unvested and further regulated lending by a bank to its executive officers, directors, principal shareholders or related interests thereof; and unvested management
personnel of a bank from serving as directors or in other management positions with certain depository institutions whose assets exceed a specified amount or which have an office within a specified
geographic area; and unvested management personnel from borrowing from another institution that has a correspondent relationship with their bank. 
         Interstate Banking. Federal law permits interstate bank mergers and acquisitions. Limited branch purchases are still subject to state laws.
Pennsylvania law permits out-of-state banking institutions to establish branches in Pennsylvania with the approval of the Pennsylvania Banking Department, provided the law of
the state where the banking institution is located would permit a Pennsylvania banking institution to establish and maintain a branch in that state on substantially similar terms and conditions. It
also permits Pennsylvania banking institutions to maintain branches in other states. The Dodd-Frank Act created a more permissive interstate branching regime by permitting banks to
establish branches de novo in any state if a bank chartered by such state would have been permitted to establish the branch. Bank management anticipates that interstate banking will continue to
increase competitive pressures in the Bank's market by permitting entry of additional competitors, but management is of the opinion that this will not have a material impact upon the anticipated
results of operations of the Bank. 
        Bank Secrecy Act and OFAC. Under the Bank Secrecy Act ("BSA"), the Bank is required to report to the Internal Revenue Service, currency transactions
of more than $10,000 or multiple transactions of which the Bank is aware in any one day that aggregate in excess of $10,000. Civil and criminal penalties are provided under the BSA for failure to
file a required report, for failure to supply information required by the BSA or for filing a false or fraudulent report. The Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Asset Control
("OFAC") administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, terrorism-sponsoring jurisdictions and organizations, and international narcotics traffickers based
on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. OFAC acts under presidential wartime and national emergency powers and authority granted by specific legislation to impose controls on transactions
and freeze foreign assets under U.S. jurisdiction. Acting under authority delegated from the Secretary of the Treasury, OFAC promulgates, develops, and administers the sanctions under its statutes and
executive orders. OFAC requirements are separate and distinct from the BSA, but both OFAC requirements and the BSA share a common national security goal. Because institutions and regulators view
compliance with OFAC sanctions as related to BSA compliance obligations, supervisory examination for OFAC compliance is typically connected to examination of an institution's BSA compliance. Examiners
focus on a banking organization's compliance processes and evaluate the sufficiency of a banking organization's implementation of policies, procedures and systems to ensure compliance with OFAC
regulations. 
         USA PATRIOT Act. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001
(together with its implementing regulations, the "Patriot Act"), designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial system, has significant implications
for banks and other financial institutions. It requires DNB and its 
12



 
Table of Contents
subsidiary
to implement new policies and procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with respect to, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious activity and currency
transaction reporting and due diligence on customers, as well as related matters. The Patriot Act permits and in some cases requires information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes between federal
law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, and it requires federal banking agencies to evaluate the effectiveness of an institution in combating
money laundering activities, both in ongoing examinations and in connection with applications for regulatory approval. 
         Deposit Insurance Assessments. The deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law and are subject to
deposit insurance premium assessments. The FDIC imposes a risk based deposit premium assessment system, under which the amount of FDIC assessments paid by an individual insured depository institution,
such as the Bank, is based on the level of risk incurred in its activities. The FDIC places a depository institution in one of four risk categories determined by reference to its capital levels and
supervisory ratings. In addition, in the case of those institutions in the lowest risk category, the FDIC further determines its assessment rates based on certain specified financial ratios. Pursuant
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC has authority and the responsibility to establish deposit insurance assessments at rates sufficient to maintain the designated reserve ratio of the
Deposit Insurance Fund at a level between 1.15% and 1.5% of estimated insured deposits, and to take action to restore the designated reserve ratio to at least 1.15% of estimated insured deposits when
it falls below that level. As of June 30, 2008, the designated reserve ratio fell below 1.15%, to 1.01%. On October 7, 2008, the FDIC established a restoration plan which it has updated
periodically since then to respond to deteriorating economic conditions. Conditions in the banking industry have continued to deteriorate through 2008 and 2009. According to the FDIC's Quarterly
Banking Profile for the Fourth Quarter 2009, as of December 30, 2009 the designated reserve ratio had fallen to (0.39%), down from (0.16%) on September 30, 2009, and 0.36% as of
December 31, 2008. The FDIC reports that the December 31, 2009 reserve ratio is the lowest on record for a combined bank and thrift insurance fund. In response to the declining reserve
ratio, the FDIC took a series of extraordinary deposit insurance assessment actions during 2009. 
        Effective
as of April 1, 2011, the FDIC adopted changes to its base and risk-based deposit insurance rates. Pursuant to the new rules, a bank's annual assessment base
rates were as follows, depending on the bank's risk category: 
 
 
  Initial and Total Base Assessment Rates*     

























 
 
Risk Category
 
 
 


 
 
Risk
Category
I
 
Risk
Category
II
 
Risk
Category
III
 
Risk
Category
IV
 
Large and
Highly
Complex
Institutions
 


 
 


 



 Initial base assessment rate
 
 
5-9
 
 
14
 
 
23
 
 
35
 
 
5-35
 


 Unsecured debt adjustment**
 
 
(4.5)-0
 
 
(5)-0
 
 
(5)-0
 
 
(5)-0
 
 
(5)-0
 


 



 Brokered deposit adjustment
 
 
—
 
 
0-10
 
 
0-10
 
 
0-10
 
 
0-10
 


 TOTAL BASE ASSESMENT RATE
 
 
2.5-9
 
 
9-24
 
 
18-33
 
 
30-45
 
 
2.5-45
 


 
 






*Total
base assessment rates do not include the depository institution debt adjustment.
**The
unsecured debt adjustment cannot exceed the lesser of 5 basis points or 50 percent of an insured depository institution's initial base assessment
rate; thus for example, an insured depository institution with an initial base assessment rate of 5 basis points will have a maximum unsecured debt adjustment of 2.5 basis points and cannot have a
total base assessment rate lower than 2.5 basis points. 

        On
November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter
of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 
13



 
Table of Contents
2012.
The prepaid assessment was collected on December 30, 2009, along with the institution's regular quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of
2009. For purposes of calculating the prepaid assessment, each institution's assessment rate was its total base assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009. In calculating the prepayment
attributable to 2011 and thereafter, it is calculated using the September 29, 2009 increase in 2011 base assessment rates. In addition, future deposit growth was reflected in the prepayment by
assuming that an institution's third
quarter 2009 assessment base would be increased quarterly at a 5 percent annual growth rate through the end of 2012. The FDIC began to draw down institutions' prepaid assessments on
March 30, 2010, representing payment for the regular quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 2009. In announcing these initiatives, the FDIC stated that, while the
prepaid assessment would not immediately affect bank earnings, each institution would record the entire amount of its prepaid assessment as a prepaid expense asset as of December 30, 2009, the
date the payment was made and, as of December 31, 2009 and each quarter thereafter, record an expense or charge to earnings for its regular quarterly assessment and an offsetting credit to the
prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted. Once the asset is exhausted, institutions would resume paying and accounting for quarterly deposit insurance assessments as they currently do. The
total amount of the Bank's deposit insurance assessment prepayment was $3.1 million. 
        The
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, that was enacted by Congress on July 15, 2010, and was signed into law by
President Obama on July 21, 2010, enacted a number of changes to the federal deposit insurance regime that will affect the deposit insurance assessments the Bank will be obligated to pay in the
future. For example:


•The law permanently raises the federal deposit insurance limit to $250,000 per account ownership. This change may have the
effect of increasing losses to the FDIC insurance fund on future failures of other insured depository institutions. 
•The new law makes deposit insurance coverage unlimited in amount for non-interest bearing transaction accounts
until December 31, 2012. This change may also have the effect of increasing losses to the FDIC insurance fund on future failures of other insured depository institutions.  
•The law increases the insurance fund's minimum designated reserve ratio from 1.15 to 1.35, and removes the current 1.50
cap on the reserve ratio. The law gives the FDIC discretion to suspend or limit the declaration or payment of dividends even when the reserve ratio exceeds the minimum designated reserve ratio. 

        The
Dodd-Frank Act expands the base for FDIC insurance assessments, requiring that assessments be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital
of a financial institution. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule to implement the foregoing provision of the Dodd-Frank Act and to make other changes to the deposit
insurance assessment system applicable to insured depository institutions with over $10 billion in assets. Among other things, the final rule eliminates risk categories and the use of
long-term debt issuer ratings in calculating risk-based assessments, and instead implements a scorecard method,
combining CAMELS ratings and certain forward-looking financial measures to assess the risk an institution poses to the Deposit Insurance Fund. The final rule also revises the assessment rate schedule
for large institutions and highly complex institutions to provide assessments ranging from 2.5 to 45 basis points. Except as specifically provided, the final rule took effect for the quarter beginning
April 1, 2011, and is reflected in the December 31, 2011 fund balance and the invoices for assessments due December 31, 2011. 
        Each
of these changes may increase the rate of FDIC insurance assessments to maintain or replenish the FDIC's deposit insurance fund. This could, in turn, raise the Bank's future deposit
insurance assessment costs. On the other hand, the law changes the deposit insurance assessment base so that it will generally be equal to consolidated assets less tangible equity. This change of the
assessment base from an emphasis on deposits to an emphasis on assets is generally considered likely to cause larger banking organizations to pay a disproportionately higher portion of future deposit
insurance assessments, which 
14



 
Table of Contents
may,
correspondingly, lower the level of deposit insurance assessments that smaller community banks such as the Bank may otherwise have to pay in the future. On December 14, 2010, the FDIC
issued a final rule setting the insurance fund's designated reserve ratio at 2, which is in excess of the 1.35 minimum designated reserve ratio established by the Dodd-Frank Act. While it
is likely that the new law will increase the Bank's future deposit insurance assessment costs, the specific amount by which the new law's combined changes will affect the Bank's deposit insurance
assessment costs is hard to predict, particularly because the new law gives the FDIC enhanced discretion to set assessment rate levels. 
        In
addition to deposit insurance assessments, banks are subject to assessments to pay the interest on Financing Corporation bonds. The Financing Corporation was created by Congress to
issue bonds to finance the resolution of failed thrift institutions. The FDIC sets the Financing Corporation assessment rate every quarter. The current annual Financing Corporation assessment rate is
66 basis points on the deposit insurance assessment base, as defined above, which we anticipate will result in an aggregate estimated FICO assessment payment by the Bank of $55,000 in 2012. 
         Other Laws and Regulations. The Bank is subject to a variety of consumer protection laws, including the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings
Act adopted as part of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA"), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer
Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the regulations adopted hereunder. In the aggregate, compliance with these consumer protection laws and regulations involves substantial expense and
administrative time on the part of the Bank and DNB. 
        Legislation and Regulatory Changes. From time to time, legislation is enacted which has the effect of increasing the cost of doing business, limiting
or expanding permissible activities and/or affecting the competitive balance between banks and other financial institutions. Proposals to change the laws and regulations governing the operations and
taxation of banks, bank holding companies and other financial institutions are frequently made in Congress, and before various bank regulatory agencies. No prediction can be made as to the likelihood
of any major changes or the impact such changes might have on DNB and its subsidiary Bank. 
        Effect of Government Monetary Policies. The earnings of DNB are and will be affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal
policies of the United States Government and its agencies (particularly the Federal Reserve Board). The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had and will likely continue to have, an
important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through its power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal
Reserve Board has a major effect upon the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its open market operations in United States Government securities and through its regulation of, among
other things, the discount rate on borrowing of member banks and the reserve requirements against member bank deposits. It is not possible to predict the nature and impact of future changes in
monetary and fiscal policies. 
        All
of DNB's revenues are attributable to customers located in the United States, and primarily from customers located in Southeastern Pennsylvania. All of Registrant's assets are
located in the United States and in Southeastern Pennsylvania. Registrant has no activities in foreign countries and hence no risks attendant to foreign operations. 
        DNB
files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 fifth
Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC
maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC Internet site's address is
http://www.sec.gov. DNB maintains a corporate website at www.dnbfirst.com. We will provide printed copies of our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on 
15



 
Table of Contents
Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports at no charge upon written request. Requests should be made to DNB Financial
Corporation, 4 Brandywine Avenue, Downingtown, PA 19335, Attention: Gerald F. Sopp, Chief Financial Officer. 
  
 
Item 1A.        Risk Factors     
        Not applicable. 
  
 
Item 1B.        Unresolved Staff Comments     
        None. 
  
 
Item 2.        Properties     
        The main office of the Bank is located at 4 Brandywine Avenue, Downingtown, Pennsylvania 19335. DNB's registered office is also at this location. DNB pays no rent
or other form of consideration for the use of the Bank's main office as its principal executive office. The Bank leases its operations center located at 104 Brandywine Avenue, Downingtown. The Bank
also leases the Chadds Ford office, West Goshen office, Exton office, West Chester office and limited service offices in Media and at the Tel Hai Retirement Community. The Bank owns the remainder of
its existing branches as described below. The Bank had a net book value of $6.5 million for all branches owned plus leasehold improvements on offices leased at December 31, 2011. The
Bank's trust department and wealth management unit, operating under the name, "DNB First Wealth Management," have offices in the Bank's Exton Office. 
        The
bank has thirteen offices located in Chester and Delaware Counties, Pennsylvania. In addition to the Main Office discussed above, they are: 













Office
 
Office Location
 
Owned/Leased


 


 Caln
 
1835 East Lincoln Highway, Coatesville
 
Owned


 Chadds Ford
 
300 Oakland Road, West Chester
 
Leased


 East End
 
701 East Lancaster Avenue, Downingtown
 
Owned


 Exton
 
410 Exton Square Parkway, Exton
 
Leased


 Kennett Square
 
215 East Cypress Street, Kennett Square
 
Owned


 Lionville
 
891 Pottstown Pike, Exton
 
Owned


 Little Washington
 
104 Culbertson Run Road, Downingtown
 
Owned


 Ludwig's Corner
 
1030 North Pottstown Pike, Chester Springs
 
Owned


 Media
 
323 West State Street, Media (Limited Service)
 
Leased


 Tel Hai
 
Tel Hai Retirement Community, Honey Brook (Limited Service, closed February 2012)
 
Leased


 West Goshen
 
1115 West Chester Pike, West Chester
 
Leased


 West Chester
 
2 North Church Street, West Chester
 
Leased


 




  
 
Item 3.        Legal Proceedings     
        DNB is a party to a number of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. While any litigation causes an element of uncertainty, management is of the
opinion that the liability, if any, resulting from the actions, will not have a material effect on the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
  
 
Item 4.        Mine Safety Disclosures     
        Not Applicable. 
16




 











Table of Contents 
 
 Part II  
  
 
Item 5.        Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
(a)
Market Price of and Dividends on Registrant's Common Equity 
        DNB
Financial Corporation's common stock, par value $1.00 per share, is listed for trading on Nasdaq Capital Markets under the symbol DNBF. Current price information is available from
account executives at most brokerage firms as well as the firms listed at the back of this report who are market makers of DNB's common stock. There were approximately 1,100 stockholders who owned
2.7 million shares of common stock outstanding at March 15, 2012. Quarterly high and low sales prices are set forth below: 






















 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 
High
 
Low
 
High
 
Low
 


 
 


 First quarter
 
 $
11.07
 
 $
9.28
 
 $
6.39
 
 $
4.61
 


 Second quarter
 
 
 10.65
 
 
 8.72
 
 
 7.41
 
 
 5.27
 


 Third quarter
 
 
 10.54
 
 
 9.27
 
 
 7.61
 
 
 6.70
 


 Fourth quarter
 
 
 10.90
 
 
 9.54
 
 
 9.07
 
 
 7.12
 


 
 




        The
information required with respect to the frequency and amount of DNB's cash dividends declared on each class of its common equity for the two most recent fiscal years is set forth in
the section of this report titled, "Item 6 — Selected Financial Data" on page 19. 
        The
information required with respect to securities authorized for issuance under DNB's equity compensation plans is set forth in "Item 12 — Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters" on page 95. 
(b)
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities 
        On
January 30, 2009, as part of the CPP administered by the United States Department of the Treasury, DNB Financial Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement and a Securities
Purchase Agreement with the U.S. Treasury. On August 4, 2011, DNB repurchased all CPP Shares in conjunction with its participation in the Treasury's Small Business Lending Fund program
("SBLF"), (see additional
discussion in Participation in U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program and Small Business Lending Fund program, on page 7 of this Form 10-K). 
(c)
Purchases of Equity Securities by DNB and Affiliated Purchasers 
        The
following table provides information on repurchases by or on behalf of DNB or any "affiliated purchaser" (as defined in Regulation 10b-18(a)(3)) of its common
stock in each month of the quarter ended December 31, 2011. 

















Period



 
Total Number
Of Shares
Purchased 
 
Average
Price Paid
Per Share 
 
Total Number of
Shares Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans
or Programs 
 
Maximum Number
of Shares that May
Yet Be Purchased
Under the Plans or
Programs 


 October 1, 2011 – October 31, 2011
 
—
 
$—
 
—
 
63,016


 November 1, 2011 – November 30, 2011
 
—
 
—
 
—
 
63,016


 December 1, 2011 – December 31, 2011
 
—
 
—
 
—
 
63,016


 
 
 


 Total
 
 —
 
$—
 
—
 
 


 
 
 




17



 
Table of Contents
        On July 25, 2001, DNB authorized the buyback of up to 175,000 shares of its common stock over an indefinite period. On August 27,
2004, DNB increased the buyback from 175,000 to 325,000 shares of its common stock over an indefinite period. 
        As
more fully discussed beginning on page 3 in the "Supervision and Regulation" section of Item 1. "Business" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, DNB's
ability to repurchase its common stock was limited by the terms of the Purchase Agreement between DNB and the U.S. Treasury. Under the CPP, prior to the earlier of (i) January 30, 2012,
or (ii) the date on which the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to unaffiliated third parties,
the consent of the U.S. Treasury was required to repurchase any shares of common stock except in connection with benefit plans in the ordinary course of business and certain other limited exceptions.
This restriction on the repurchase of common stock was effective through, August 4, 2011 when all requisite funds were repaid to the Treasury. 
        As
more fully discussed beginning on page 3 in the "Supervision and Regulation" section of Item 1. "Business" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, DNB's
ability to repurchase its common stock was limited by the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement between DNB and the U.S. Treasury regarding its participation in the Treasury's Small Business
Lending Fund (SBLF). Under the SBLF, effective August 4, 2011, so long as any share of Series 2011A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, DNB may repurchase or redeem any shares of
Capital Stock, only if, after giving effect to such dividend, repurchase or redemption, DNB's Tier 1 capital would be at least equal to the Tier 1 Dividend Threshold, as specified in the
agreement and that the dividends on such stock have all been contemporaneously declared and paid. 
(d)
Corporation Performance Graph 
        The
following graph presents the 5 year cumulative total return on DNB Financial Corporation's common stock, compared to the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Financial
Index for the 5 year period ended December 31, 2011. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested in DNB's common stock and each of the foregoing indices and that all dividends have
been reinvested. 
 
 
  CORPORATION PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF FIVE YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN  AMONG DNB FINANCIAL CORP., the S&P 500 INDEX and the S&P 500 FINANCIAL INDEX    



18



 
Table of Contents
  
 
Item 6.        Selected Financial Data     
The
selected financial data set forth below is derived in part from, and should be read in conjunction with, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto, contained elsewhere herein. 

























 
 
At or For the Year Ended December 31 (Dollars in thousands, except share data)
    
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest income
 
 $
26,174
 
 $
26,050
 
 $
25,948
 
 $
28,262
 
 $
30,237
 


 Interest expense
 
 
 4,644
 
 
 7,062
 
 
 10,629
 
 
 13,048
 
 
 15,417
 


 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
 21,530
 
 
 18,988
 
 
 15,319
 
 
 15,214
 
 
 14,820
 


 
 


 Provision for credit losses
 
 
 1,480
 
 
 2,216
 
 
 1,325
 
 
 2,018
 
 
 60
 


 
 


 Non-interest income
 
 
 3,643
 
 
 5,430
 
 
 4,507
 
 
 4,408
 
 
 4,003
 


 
 


 Non-interest expense
 
 
 16,725
 
 
 16,903
 
 
 16,590
 
 
 16,731
 
 
 16,589
 


 
 


 Income before income taxes
 
 
 6,968
 
 
 5,299
 
 
 1,911
 
 
 873
 
 
 2,174
 


 
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
 2,066
 
 
 1,629
 
 
 362
 
 
 64
 
 
 372
 


 
 


 Net income
 
 $
4,902
 
 $
3,670
 
 $
1,549
 
 $
809
 
 $
1,802
 


 
 


 Preferred stock dividends & accretion of discount
 
 
 779
 
 
 618
 
 
 567
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
4,123
 
 $
3,052
 
 $
982
 
 $
809
 
 $
1,802
 


 
 


 PER SHARE DATA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic earnings
 
 $
1.54
 
 $
1.16
 
 $
0.38
 
 $
0.31
 
 $
0.69
 


 Diluted earnings
 
 
 1.53
 
 
 1.16
 
 
 0.38
 
 
 0.31
 
 
 0.69
 


 Cash dividends
 
 
 0.12
 
 
 0.12
 
 
 0.23
 
 
 0.46
 
 
 0.50
 


 Book value
 
 
 14.14
 
 
 12.55
 
 
 11.88
 
 
 11.53
 
 
 12.55
 


 Weighted average
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common shares outstanding — basic
 
 
 2,674,716
 
 
 2,635,549
 
 
 2,606,596
 
 
 2,602,902
 
 
 2,614,417
 


 FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
607,099
 
 $
602,332
 
 $
634,248
 
 $
533,447
 
 $
545,840
 


 Loans and leases, gross
 
 
 403,684
 
 
 396,171
 
 
 359,427
 
 
 336,454
 
 
 309,342
 


 Allowance for credit losses
 
 
 6,164
 
 
 5,884
 
 
 5,477
 
 
 4,586
 
 
 3,891
 


 Deposits
 
 
 497,545
 
 
 492,746
 
 
 507,347
 
 
 408,470
 
 
 412,920
 


 Borrowings
 
 
 53,647
 
 
 60,230
 
 
 79,450
 
 
 90,123
 
 
 89,877
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 51,056
 
 
 45,208
 
 
 42,876
 
 
 30,058
 
 
 32,635
 


 SELECTED RATIOS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Return on average stockholders' equity
 
 
 10.01
%
 
 8.03
%
 
 3.76
%
 
 2.51
%
 
 5.96
%


 Return on average assets
 
 
 0.80
 
 
 0.59
 
 
 0.26
 
 
 0.15
 
 
 0.36
 


 Average equity to average assets
 
 
 7.99
 
 
 7.40
 
 
 6.87
 
 
 5.98
 
 
 6.02
 


 Loans to deposits
 
 
 81.14
 
 
 80.40
 
 
 70.84
 
 
 82.37
 
 
 74.92
 


 Dividend payout ratio
 
 
 7.84
 
 
 10.37
 
 
 59.68
 
 
 146.56
 
 
 72.17
 




19




 











Table of Contents 
  
 
Item 7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
I.     Introductory Overview 
        DNB Financial Corporation is a bank holding company whose bank subsidiary, DNB First, National Association (the "Bank") is a nationally chartered commercial bank
with trust powers, and a member of the FDIC. DNB provides a broad range of banking services to individual and corporate customers through its thirteen community offices located throughout Chester and
Delaware Counties,
Pennsylvania. DNB is a community banking organization that focuses its lending and other services on businesses and consumers in the local market area. DNB funds all these activities with retail and
business deposits and borrowings. Through its Wealth Management division, the Bank provides wealth management and trust services to individuals, businesses and non-profit organizations.
The Bank and its subsidiary, DNB Investments and Insurance, make available certain non-depository products and services, such as securities brokerage, mutual funds, life insurance and
annuities. 
        DNB
earns revenues and generates cash flows by lending funds to commercial and consumer customers in its marketplace. DNB generates its largest source of interest income through its
lending function. A secondary source of interest income is DNB's investment portfolio, which provides liquidity and cash flows for future lending needs. 
        In
addition to interest earned on loans and investments, DNB earns revenues from fees it charges customers for non-lending services. These services include wealth management
and trust services; brokerage and investment services; cash management services; banking and ATM services; as well as safekeeping and other depository services. 
        To
ensure we remain well positioned to meet the growing needs of our customers and communities and to meet the challenges of the 21st century, we've worked to build awareness of
our full-service capabilities and ability to meet the needs of a wide range of customers. This served to not only retain our existing, customer base, but to position ourselves as an
attractive financial institution on which younger individuals and families can build their dreams. To that end, DNB continues to make appropriate investments in all areas of our business, including
people, technology, facilities and marketing. 
        Highlights
of DNB's results for the year-end December 31, 2011 include:


•Increased earnings — Net income increased $1.2 million or 33.6% year over year. Net
income was $4.9 million or $1.53 per share in 2011, compared to $3.7 million or $1.16 per share in 2010. 
•Improvement of net interest margin — DNB's net interest margin, on a tax-equivalent
basis, improved 48 basis points from 3.24% in 2010 to 3.72% in 2011. The most significant factor in this improvement was the reduction in the cost of interest bearing liabilities, which declined from
1.37% in 2010 to 0.93% in 2011. In addition, management shifted assets into higher yielding categories by increasing the average loan portfolio by $7.5 million or 1.9%, and reducing the average
investment portfolio by $6.6 million or 4.4%. 
•Control of non-interest expenses — DNB continued its focus on expense control and
improving operational efficiencies throughout the bank. As a result, non-interest expenses decreased $178,000 from 2010, primarily because 2010's results included a $560,000 prepayment
penalty paid to the FHLB of Pittsburgh. Absent this item, non-interest expenses would have increased slightly by $382,000 or 2.3%, primarily related to an increase in salary and employee
benefits due to a higher level of full-time equivalent employees year over year.
•Strengthened capital position — Shareholder's equity increased $5.8 million to
$51.1 million at December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010, reflecting our solid earnings growth and participation in the Treasury's SBLF Program. 

20



 
Table of Contents
        The
global and U.S. economies have experienced significantly reduced business activity as a result of disruptions in the financial system during the past three years. Dramatic declines
in the housing market during the past three years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial
institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. As a result of the recession, retail customers may delay borrowing from DNB as unemployment remains
high and availability to borrow against equity in primary residences diminishes. As the U.S. economy moves through a period of recession, delinquencies will rise as the value of homes decline and
DNB's borrowers experience financial difficulty due to corporate downsizing, reduced sales, or other negative events which may impact their ability to meet their contractual loan payments. As a result
of these negative trends in the economy and their impact on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans, DNB made a $1.5 million provision in 2011 in response to DNB's increased level of loans
and leases which grew $7.5 million to $403.7 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $396.2 million at December 31, 2010. 
        In
addition, DNB's net interest margin has been impacted by these changes in the economy. Management has been aggressive in managing DNB's cost of funds during the year by implementing
carefully planned pricing strategies, designed to offset the decline in rates on earning assets, while matching liquidity needs. Our composite cost of funds for 2011 dropped 44 basis points to 0.93%,
from 1.37% in 2010. DNB's net interest margin increased to 3.72% in 2011 from 3.24% in 2010. This improvement is attributable to a lower composite cost of funds, coupled with a shift in assets from
lower yielding investments into higher yielding loans. 
         Earnings. For the year ended December 31, 2011, DNB reported net income of $4.9 million, an increase of $1.2 million from the
$3.7 million reported for the year ended December 31, 2010, or $1.53 per share versus $1.16 per share, respectively, on a fully diluted basis. DNB's earnings were favorably impacted by a
higher net interest margin, lower provisions for credit losses and lower levels of non-interest expense. During 2011, DNB recognized $38,000 in gains on sales of securities, down from
$2.0 million in 2010. Although DNB reported an increase in earnings of 34%, our operations and earnings are subject to the same negative economic conditions challenging all commercial banking
institutions. 
         Asset Quality. Non-performing assets were $11.6 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $11.5 million at
December 31, 2010. Non-performing assets as of December 31, 2011 were comprised of $7.4 million of non-accrual loans and leases, $210,000 of loans and
leases delinquent over ninety days and still accruing, as well as $3.8 million of Other Real Estate Owned ("OREO") and $212,000 in other repossessed assets. As of December 31, 2011, the
non-performing loans to total loans ratio increased to 1.89% compared to 1.82% at December 31, 2010. The non-performing assets to total assets ratio decreased to 1.91%
at December 31, 2011, compared to 1.92% at December 31, 2010. The allowance for credit losses was $6.2 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $5.9 million at
December 31, 2010. The allowance to total loans was 1.53% at December 31, 2011 compared to 1.49% at December 31, 2010. DNB's delinquency ratio (the total of all delinquent loans
and leases plus loans greater than 90 days and still accruing, divided by total loans and leases) was 2.19% at December 31, 2011, up from 1.97% at December 31, 2010. The increase
in delinquencies during 2011 occurred primarily in the consumer and commercial loan portfolios. 
II.    Overview of Financial Condition — Major Changes and Trends 
        At December 31, 2011, DNB had consolidated assets of $607.1 million and a Tier I/Leverage Capital Ratio of 10.14%. Loans and leases comprise
69.5% of earning assets, while investments and overnight funds constitute the remainder. During 2011, assets increased $4.8 million to $607.1 million at December 31, 2011,
compared to $602.3 million at December 31, 2010. During the same period, investment securities decreased $6.6 million to $144.0 million, while the loan and lease portfolio
increased $7.5 million, or 1.90%, to $403.7 million. Deposits increased $4.8 million to $497.5 million at December 31, 
21



 
Table of Contents
2011.
DNB's liabilities are comprised of a high level of core deposits with a low cost of funds in addition to a moderate level of borrowings with costs that are more volatile than core deposits. 
        Comprehensive 5-Year Plan. During the second quarter of 2011, management updated the 5-year strategic plan that was designed
to reposition its balance sheet and improve core earnings. Through the plan, management will endeavor to expand its loan portfolio through new originations, increased loan participations, as well as
strategic loan and lease receivable purchases. Management also plans to reduce the absolute level of borrowings with cash flows from existing loans and investments as well as from new deposit growth.
A discussion on DNB's Key Strategies follows below:


•Focus on penetrating existing markets to maximize profitability 
•Grow loans and diversify the mix 
•Improve asset quality 
•Reduce long-term borrowings 
•Focus on profitable customer segments 
•Grow and diversify non-interest income, primarily in the wealth management area  
•Focus on reducing DNB's cost of funds by changing DNB's mix of deposits
•Focus on cost containment and improving operational efficiencies 

         Strategic Plan Update. During the year ended December 31, 2011, management focused on strengthening DNB's net interest margin, reducing our
composite cost of funds as well as strengthening capital ratios. To accomplish these goals, management shifted assets out of lower yielding investments and into higher yielding loans. This caused the
average balance of loans and leases to increase to $408.8 million yielding 5.60% in 2011, from $371.5 million of loans and leases yielding 5.73% in 2010. The composite cost of funds for
the year ended December 31, 2011 was 0.93% compared to 1.37% in 2010. The net interest margin for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased 48 basis points to 3.72%, up from 3.24% in
2010. Management continued to actively manage deposits during 2011 to reduce its composite cost of funds. Transaction and savings accounts increased $37.8 million during 2011 to
$392.3 million, compared to December 31, 2010, while time deposits declined $33.0 million to $105.2 million compared to December 31, 2010. The Tier 1
(leverage) Capital ratio increased to 10.14% at December 31, 2011, up from 9.25% at December 31, 2010. 
        Management's
strategies are designed to direct DNB's tactical investment decisions and support financial objectives. DNB's most significant revenue source continues to be net interest
income, defined as total interest income less total interest expense, which in 2011 accounted for approximately 85.5% of total revenue. To produce net interest income and consistent earnings growth
over the long-term, DNB must generate loan and deposit growth at acceptable economic spreads within its market area. To generate and grow loans and deposits, DNB must focus on a number of
areas including, but not limited to, the economy, branch expansion, sales practices, customer satisfaction and retention, competition, customer behavior, technology, product innovation and credit
performance of its customers. 
        Management
has made a concerted effort to improve the measurement and tracking of business lines and overall corporate performance levels. Improved information systems have increased
DNB's ability to track key indicators and enhance corporate performance levels. Better measurement against goals and objectives and increased accountability will be integral in attaining desired loan,
deposit and fee income production. 
        On
January 30, 2009, as part of the CPP administered by the United States Department of the Treasury, DNB Financial Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement and a Securities
Purchase Agreement with the U.S. Treasury. On August 4, 2011, DNB repurchased all CPP Shares in conjunction 
22



 
Table of Contents
with
its participation in the Treasury's Small Business Lending Fund program ("SBLF"), (see additional discussion in Participation in U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program and Small Business Lending
Fund program, on page 7 of this Form 10-K).On September 21, 2011, DNB entered into the Warrant Letter Agreement with the Treasury. Pursuant to the Warrant Letter
Agreement, DNB Financial Corporation repurchased from Treasury the warrant to purchase 186,311 shares of DNB Financial Corporation's common stock issued to Treasury in January 2009 under CPP. DNB
Financial Corporation paid a purchase price of $458,000 for the warrant. 
III.  DNB's Principal Products and Services 
         Loans and Lending Services. DNB's primary source of earnings and cash flows is derived from its lending function. The commercial loan and lease
portfolios amounted to $333.6 million or 82.6% of total loans as of December 31, 2011. DNB focuses on providing these products to small to mid-size businesses throughout
Chester and Delaware Counties. In keeping with DNB's goal to match customer business initiatives with products designed to meet their needs, DNB offers a wide variety of fixed and variable rate loans
that are priced competitively. DNB serves this market by providing funds for the purchase of business property or ventures, working capital lines, Small Business Administration loans, lease financing
for equipment and for a variety of other purposes. 
        As
a community bank, DNB also serves consumers by providing home equity and home mortgages, as well as term loans for the purchase of consumer goods. During the current economic
environment, consumer loans declined $5.1 million or 10.4% from the prior year due to lower demand for this product as a result of falling housing prices and a high unemployment rate. 
        In
addition to providing funds to customers, DNB also provides a variety of services to its commercial customers. These services, such as cash management, remote capture, commercial
sweep accounts, internet banking, letters of credit and other lending services are designed to meet our customer needs
and help them become successful. DNB provides these services to assist its customers in obtaining financing, securing business opportunities, providing access to new resources and managing cash flows. 
        Deposit Products and Services. DNB's primary source of funds is derived from customer deposits, which are typically generated by DNB's thirteen
branch offices. DNB's deposit base, while highly concentrated in central Chester County, extends to southern Chester County and into parts of Delaware and Lancaster Counties. In addition, a growing
amount of new deposits are being generated through expanded government service offerings and as a part of comprehensive loan or wealth management relationships. 
        The
majority of DNB's deposit mix consists of low costing core deposits, (demand, NOW and savings accounts). The remaining deposits are comprised of rate-sensitive money
market and time products. DNB offers tiered savings and money market accounts, designed to attract high dollar, less volatile funds. Certificates of deposit and IRAs are traditionally offered with
interest rates commensurate with their terms. 
         Non-Deposit Products and Services. DNB offers non-deposit products and services through its subsidiaries under the names "DNB
Investments & Insurance" and "DNB First Investment Management & Trust." Revenues under these entities were $785,000 and $834,000 for 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
23



 
Table of Contents
DNB Investments & Insurance.  Through a partnership with PrimeVest Financial Services, DNB Investments & Insurance offers a
complete line of investment and insurance products. 















•
 
Fixed & Variable Annuities
 
•
 
401(k) plans


•
 
401(k) Rollovers
 
•
 
Stocks


•
 
Self-Directed IRAs
 
•
 
Bonds


•
 
Mutual Funds
 
•
 
Full Services Brokerage/Cash Management


•
 
Long Term Care Insurance
 
•
 
529 College Savings Plans


•
 
Life Insurance
 
•
 
Estate Accounts


•
 
Disability Insurance
 
•
 
Self Employed Pension (SEP)




DNB First Investment Management & Trust.  DNB First Investment Management & Trust offers a full line of services, which
includes the following: 















•
 
Investment Management
 
•
 
Investment Advisory


•
 
Estate Settlement
 
•
 
Trust Administration


•
 
Custody Services
 
•
 
Financial Planning


•
 
Trust Tax Preparation
 
•
 
Client Bill Paying




IV.    Material Challenges, Risks and Opportunities 
 A.    Interest Rate Risk Management.  
        Interest rate risk is the exposure to adverse changes in net interest income due to changes in interest rates. DNB considers interest
rate risk a predominant risk in terms of its
potential impact on earnings. Interest rate risk can occur for any one or more of the following reasons: (a) assets and liabilities may mature or re-price at different times;
(b) short-term or long-term market rates may change by different amounts; or (c) the remaining maturity of various assets or liabilities may shorten or lengthen
as interest rates change. 
        The
principal objective of DNB's interest rate risk management is to evaluate the interest rate risk included in certain on and off balance sheet accounts, determine the level of risk
appropriate given DNB's business strategy, operating environment, capital and liquidity requirements and performance objectives, and manage the risk consistent with approved guidelines. Through such
management, DNB seeks to reduce the vulnerability of its operations to changes in interest rates. DNB's Asset Liability Committee (the "ALCO") is responsible for reviewing DNB's asset/liability
policies and interest rate risk position and making decisions involving asset liability considerations. The ALCO meets on a monthly basis and reports trends and DNB's interest rate risk position to
the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The extent of the movement of interest rates is an uncertainty that could have a negative impact on DNB's earnings. (See additional discussion in
Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk on page 48 of this Form 10-K.) 
 1.    Net Interest Margin 
        DNB's net interest margin is the ratio of net interest income to average interest-earning assets. Unlike the interest rate spread,
which measures the difference between the rates on earning assets and interest paying liabilities, the net interest margin measures that spread plus the effect of net free funding sources. This is a
more meaningful measure of profitability because a bank can have a narrow spread but a high level of equity and non-interest-bearing deposits, resulting in a good net interest margin. One
of the most 
24



 
Table of Contents
critical
challenges DNB faced over the last several years was the impact of historically low interest rates and a narrower spread between short-term rates and long-term rates
as noted in the tables below. 




























 
 
December 31
 


 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 
2006
 


 
 


 Prime
 
 
 3.25%
 
 
 3.25%
 
 
 3.25%
 
 
 3.25%
 
 
 7.25%
 
 
8.25%
 


 Federal Funds Sold ("FFS")
 
 
 0.25   
 
 
 0.25    
 
 
 0.25    
 
 
 0.25    
 
 
 4.25    
 
 
5.25    
 


 6 month U.S. Treasury
 
 
 0.05   
 
 
 0.19    
 
 
 0.20    
 
 
 0.27    
 
 
 3.51    
 
 
5.08    
 


 
 




 




























 
 
Historical Yield Spread
December 31
 


 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 
2006
 


 
 


 FFS to 5 year U.S. Treasury
 
 
 .64%
 
 
 1.68%
 
 
 2.44%
 
 
 1.30%
 
 
 -0.62%
 
 
 -0.56%
 


 FFS to 10 year U.S. Treasury
 
 
 1.73   
 
 
 3.04    
 
 
 3.60    
 
 
 2.00    
 
 
 -0.04    
 
 
 -0.55    
 


 
 




        In
general, financial institutions price their fixed rate loans off of 5 and 10 year treasuries and price their deposits off of shorter indices, like the Federal Funds Sold rate.
As you can see in the table above, the spread between the Federal Funds Sold rate and the 5 year treasury has ranged from 2.44% to a negative 0.62% during the last 6 years. The spread
between the Federal Funds Sold rate and the 10 year treasury has ranged from 3.60% to a negative 0.55% during the last 6 years. As a result of the compression between long and short term
rates, many banks, including DNB, have seen their net interest margin fluctuate during the last 6 years. 
        The
table below provides, for the periods indicated, information regarding: (i) DNB's average balance sheet; (ii) the total dollar amounts of interest income from
interest-earning assets and the resulting average yields (tax-exempt yields have been adjusted to a tax equivalent basis using a 34% tax rate); (iii) the total dollar amounts of
interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities and the resulting average costs; (iv) net interest income; (v) net interest rate spread; and (vi) net interest margin.
Average balances were calculated based on daily balances. Non-accrual loan balances are included in total loans. Loan fees and costs are included in interest on total loans. 
25




 










Table of Contents 
 Average Balances, Rates, and Interest Income and Expense (Dollars in thousands)





































 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 
Average
Balance
 
Interest
 
Yield/
Rate
 
Average
Balance
 
Interest
 
Yield/
Rate
 
Average
Balance
 
Interest
 
Yield/
Rate
 


 
 


 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest-earning assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Taxable
 
 $
147,324
 
 $
3,250
 
 
 2.21
%
 $
181,056
 
 $
4,722
 
 
 2.61
%
 $
185,413
 
 $
6,347
 
 
 3.42
%


 Tax-exempt
 
 
 5,656
 
 
 328
 
 
 5.79
 
 
 1,845
 
 
 97
 
 
 5.28
 
 
 5,457
 
 
 286
 
 
 5.22
 


 
 


 Total securities
 
 
 152,980
 
 
 3,578
 
 
 2.34
 
 
 182,901
 
 
 4,819
 
 
 2.63
 
 
 190,870
 
 
 6,633
 
 
 3.48
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 26,374
 
 
 56
 
 
 0.21
 
 
 36,177
 
 
 78
 
 
 0.21
 
 
 41,978
 
 
 69
 
 
 0.16
 


 Total loans and leases
 
 
 408,796
 
 
 22,886
 
 
 5.60
 
 
 371,528
 
 
 21,302
 
 
 5.73
 
 
 340,571
 
 
 19,460
 
 
 5.71
 


 
 


 Total interest-earning assets
 
 
 588,150
 
 
 26,520
 
 
 4.51
 
 
 590,606
 
 
 26,199
 
 
 4.44
 
 
 573,419
 
 
 26,162
 
 
 4.56
 


 Non-interest-earning assets
 
 
 24,489
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26,988
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 26,120
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
612,639
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
617,594
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
599,539
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest-bearing liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Savings deposits
 
 $
318,085
 
 $
1,045
 
 
 0.33
%
 $
296,930
 
 $
1,913
 
 
 0.64
%
 $
258,304
 
 $
2,700
 
 
 1.05
%


 Time deposits
 
 
 123,444
 
 
 2,190
 
 
 1.77
 
 
 151,201
 
 
 2,992
 
 
 1.98
 
 
 155,981
 
 
 4,115
 
 
 2.64
 


 Brokered Deposits
 
 
 20
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.20
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Total interest-bearing deposits
 
 
 441,549
 
 
 3,235
 
 
 0.73
 
 
 448,131
 
 
 4,905
 
 
 1.09
 
 
 414,285
 
 
 6,815
 
 
 1.64
 


 Federal funds purchased
 
 
 11
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.99
 
 
 10
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.99
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Federal Reserve borrowing
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.73
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 0.77
 
 
 4,718
 
 
 12
 
 
 0.25
 


 Repurchase agreements
 
 
 25,966
 
 
 142
 
 
 0.55
 
 
 24,419
 
 
 197
 
 
 0.81
 
 
 21,247
 
 
 286
 
 
 1.35
 


 FHLBP advances
 
 
 20,329
 
 
 864
 
 
 4.25
 
 
 33,077
 
 
 1,500
 
 
 4.53
 
 
 58,945
 
 
 2,897
 
 
 4.92
 


 Other borrowings
 
 
 10,284
 
 
 403
 
 
 3.92
 
 
 10,009
 
 
 460
 
 
 4.60
 
 
 9,930
 
 
 619
 
 
 6.23
 


 
 


 Total interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
 498,139
 
 
 4,644
 
 
 0.93
 
 
 515,646
 
 
 7,062
 
 
 1.37
 
 
 509,125
 
 
 10,629
 
 
 2.09
 


 Demand deposits
 
 
 61,951
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 51,963
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 45,110
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 3,570
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,257
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4,145
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 48,979
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 45,728
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 41,159
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
612,639
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
617,594
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
599,539
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
 
 
 $
21,876
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
19,137
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
15,533
 
 
 
 


 
 


 Interest rate spread
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.58
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.07
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.47
%


 
 


 Net interest margin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.72
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.24
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.71
%


 
 




 2.    Rate / Volume Analysis 
        During 2011, net interest income, before the provision for credit losses, increased $2.7 million or 14.31% on a tax equivalent
basis. As shown in the Rate/Volume Analysis on the following page, $2.5 million was attributable to volume changes and $252,000 to rate changes. The volume changes were mostly attributable to
increased levels of loans and leases of $37.3 million, offset by decreased levels of investment securities of $29.9 million and decreased levels of FHLBP advances of
$12.7 million. The average balance of loans and leases was $408.8 million in 2011 compared to $371.5 million in 2010. The average balance of investment securities was
$153.0 million in 2011 compared to $182.9 million in 2010. The average balance of FHLBP advances was $20.3 million in 2011 compared to $33.1 million in 2010. The decrease
in yields on interest-earning assets and the decrease in rates on interest-bearing liabilities offset 
26



 
Table of Contents
each
other, resulting in a $252,000 favorable difference. The tax equivalent yield on securities declined to 2.34% in 2011 from 2.63% in 2010. The favorable change due to rate on savings deposits was
$938,000 which had an average rate of 0.33% in 2011 and 0.64% in 2010. The favorable change due to rate on time deposits was $309,000 which had an average rate of 1.77% in 2011 and 1.98% in 2010.
DNB's composite cost of funds decreased to 0.93% in 2011 compared to 1.37% in 2010. 
        The
following table sets forth, among other things, the extent to which changes in interest rates and changes in the average balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities have affected interest income and expense for the periods noted (tax-exempt yields have been adjusted to a tax equivalent basis using a 34% tax rate). For each category of
interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, information is provided with respect to changes attributable to (i) changes in rate (change in rate multiplied by old volume) and
(ii) changes in volume (change in volume multiplied by new rate). The net change attributable to the combined impact of rate and volume has been allocated proportionately to the change due to
rate and the change due to volume. 
 Rate / Volume Analysis (Dollars in thousands)  




























 
 
2011 Versus 2010
 
2010 Versus 2009
 


 
 
Change Due To
 
Change Due To
 


 
 
Rate
 
Volume
 
Total
 
Rate
 
Volume
 
Total
 


 
 


 Interest-earning assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans and leases
 
 $
(502
)
 $
2,086
 
 $
1,584
 
 $
67
 
 $
1,775
 
 $
1,842
 


 Investment securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Taxable
 
 
 (728
)
 
 (744
)
 
 (1,472
)
 
 (1,512
)
 
 (113
)
 
 (1,625
)


 Tax-exempt
 
 
 10
 
 
 221
 
 
 231
 
 
 3
 
 
 (192
)
 
 (189
)


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 —
 
 
 (22
)
 
 (22
)
 
 21
 
 
 (12
)
 
 9
 


 
 


 Total
 
 
 (1,220
)
 
 1,541
 
 
 321
 
 
 (1,421
)
 
 1,458
 
 
 37
 


 
 


 Interest-bearing liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Savings deposits
 
 
 (938
)
 
 70
 
 
 (868
)
 
 (1,035
)
 
 248
 
 
 (787
)


 Time deposits
 
 
 (309
)
 
 (493
)
 
 (802
)
 
 (1,029
)
 
 (94
)
 
 (1,123
)


 Federal Reserve borrowing
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 24
 
 
 (36
)
 
 (12
)


 Repurchase agreements
 
 
 (63
)
 
 8
 
 
 (55
)
 
 (115
)
 
 26
 
 
 (89
)


 FHLBP advances
 
 
 (94
)
 
 (542
)
 
 (636
)
 
 (224
)
 
 (1,173
)
 
 (1,397
)


 Other borrowings
 
 
 (68
)
 
 11
 
 
 (57
)
 
 (162
)
 
 3
 
 
 (159
)


 
 


 Total
 
 
 (1,472
)
 
 (946
)
 
 (2,418
)
 
 (2,541
)
 
 (1,026
)
 
 (3,567
)


 
 


 Net interest income
 
 $
252
 
 $
2,487
 
 $
2,739
 
 $
1,120
 
 $
2,484
 
 $
3,604
 


 
 




 3.    Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis 
        The largest component of DNB's total income is net interest income, and the majority of DNB's financial instruments are comprised of
interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities with various terms and maturities. The primary objective of management is to maximize net interest income while minimizing interest rate
risk. Interest rate risk is derived from timing differences in the re-pricing of assets and liabilities, loan prepayments, deposit withdrawals, and differences in lending and funding
rates. The Asset/Liability Committee ("ALCO") actively seeks to monitor and control the mix of interest rate-sensitive assets and interest rate-sensitive liabilities. 
        ALCO
continually evaluates interest rate risk management opportunities, including the use of derivative financial instruments. Management believes that hedging instruments currently
available are not 
27



 
Table of Contents
cost-effective,
and therefore, has focused its efforts on increasing DNB's spread by attracting lower-costing retail deposits and in some instances, borrowing from the FHLB of Pittsburgh. 
        DNB
reports its callable agency investments ($43.4 million at December 31, 2011) and callable FHLBP advances ($20 million at December 31, 2011) at their
Option Adjusted Spread ("OAS") effective duration date, as opposed to the call or maturity date. In management's opinion, using effective duration dates on callable securities and advances provides a
better estimate of the option exercise date under any interest rate environment. The OAS methodology is an approach whereby the likelihood of option exercise takes into account the coupon on the
security, the distance to the call date, the maturity date and current interest rate volatility. In addition, prepayment assumptions derived from historical data have been applied to mortgage-related
securities, which are included in investments. (See additional discussion in Item 7a. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk on page 48 of this
Form 10-K.) 
 B.    Liquidity and Market Risk Management  
        Liquidity is the ability to meet current and future financial obligations. The Bank further defines liquidity as the ability to respond
to deposit outflows as well as maintain flexibility to take advantage of lending and investment opportunities. The Bank's primary sources of funds are operating earnings, deposits, repurchase
agreements, principal and interest payments on loans, proceeds from loan sales, sales and maturities of mortgage backed and investment securities, and FHLBP advances. The Bank uses the funds generated
to support its lending and investment activities as well as any other demands for liquidity such as deposit outflows. While maturities and scheduled amortization of loans and securities are
predictable sources of funds, deposit flows, mortgage prepayments, loan and security sales and the exercise of call features are greatly influenced by general interest rates, economic conditions and
competition. 
        The
objective of DNB's asset/liability management function is to maintain consistent growth in net interest income within DNB's policy limits. This objective is accomplished through the
management of liquidity and interest rate risk, as well as customer offerings of various loan and deposit products. DNB maintains adequate liquidity to meet daily funding requirements, anticipated
deposit withdrawals, or
asset opportunities in a timely manner. Liquidity is also necessary to meet obligations during unusual, extraordinary or adverse operating circumstances, while avoiding a significant loss or cost.
DNB's foundation for liquidity is a stable deposit base as well as a marketable investment portfolio that provides cash flow through regular maturities or that can be used for collateral to secure
funding in an emergency. As part of its liquidity management, DNB maintains assets, which comprise its primary liquidity (Federal funds sold, investments and interest-bearing cash balances, less
pledged securities). 
 C.    Credit Risk Management  
        DNB defines credit risk as the risk of default by a customer or counter-party. The objective of DNB's credit risk management strategy
is to quantify and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis as well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from an individual customer default. Credit risk is managed through a combination
of underwriting, documentation and collection standards. DNB's credit risk management strategy calls for regular credit examinations and quarterly management reviews of large credit exposures and
credits experiencing credit quality deterioration. DNB's loan review procedures provide objective assessments of the quality of underwriting, documentation, risk grading and charge-off
procedures, as well as an assessment of the allowance for credit loss reserve analysis process. As the U.S. economy moves through a period of recession, it is possible that delinquencies and
non-performing assets may rise as the value of homes decline and DNB's borrowers experience financial difficulty due to corporate downsizing, reduced sales, or other negative events which
will impact their ability to meet their contractual loan payments. To minimize the impact on DNB's earnings and maintain sound credit quality, management continues to aggressively monitor credit and
credit relationships that may be impacted by such adverse factors. 
28



 
Table of Contents
 D.    Competition  
        In addition to the challenges related to the interest rate environment, community banks in Chester and Delaware Counties have been
experiencing increased competition from large regional and international banks entering DNB's marketplace through mergers and acquisitions. Competition for loans and deposits has negatively affected
DNB's net interest margin. To compensate for the increased competition, DNB, along with other area community banks, has aggressively sought and marketed customers who have been disenfranchised by
these mergers. To attract these customers, DNB has introduced new deposit products, such as Mobile Banking, Choice
Checking, Credit Cards as well as Executive and employee packages. In addition, DNB has introduced Remote Capture to our commercial customers to expedite their collection of funds. 
V.     Recent Developments 
 A.    Accounting Developments Affecting DNB  
        In April 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-02 for guidance on Receivables (Topic 310)
regarding a creditor's determination of whether a restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring. The amendments in this update apply to all creditors, both public and nonpublic, that restructure
certain receivables. In evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, a creditor must separately conclude that both of the following exist: the restructuring
constitutes a concession and the debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The amendments clarify the guidance on a creditor's evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and on a
creditor's evaluation of whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. For public entities, the amendments in this update are effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on
or after June 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption. As a result of applying these amendments, an entity may identify receivables
that are newly considered impaired. For purposes of measuring impairment of those receivables, an entity should apply the amendments prospectively for the first interim or annual period beginning on
or after June 15, 2011. The adoption did not have a material impact on DNB's consolidated financial statements. 
        In
December, 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
in Accounting Standards Update 2011-05. In response to stakeholder concerns regarding the operational ramifications of the presentation of these reclassifications for current and previous
years, the FASB has deferred the implementation date of this provision to allow time for further consideration. The requirement in ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, for
the presentation of a combined statement of comprehensive income or separate, but consecutive, statements of net income and other comprehensive income is still effective for fiscal years and interim
periods beginning after December 15, 2011 for public companies, and fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011 for nonpublic companies. The adoption of ASU
No. 2011-05 will not have a material impact on DNB's consolidated financial statements. 
VI.   Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
        The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Generally accepted accounting principles are complex and require management to apply significant judgment to various
accounting, reporting and disclosure matters. Management must use assumptions and estimates to apply these principles where actual measurement is not possible or practical. Actual results may differ
from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 
        In
management's opinion, the most critical accounting policies and estimates impacting DNB's consolidated financial statements are listed below. These policies are critical because they
are highly dependent upon subjective or complex judgments, assumptions and estimates. Changes in such estimates may have a significant impact on the financial statements. For a complete discussion of
DNB's significant accounting policies, see the footnotes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and discussion throughout this Form 10-K. 
29




 











Table of Contents 
1.    Determination of the allowance for credit losses.    Credit loss
allowance policies involve significant judgments, estimates and assumptions by management which may have a material impact on the carrying value of net loans and, potentially, on the net income
recognized by DNB from period to period. The allowance for credit losses is based on management's ongoing evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio and reflects an amount considered by management to
be its best estimate of the amount necessary to absorb known and inherent losses in the portfolio. Management considers a variety of factors when establishing the allowance, such as the impact of
current economic conditions, diversification of the portfolios, delinquency statistics, results of loan review and related classifications, and historic loss rates. In addition, certain individual
loans which management has identified as problematic are specifically provided for, based upon an evaluation of the borrower's perceived ability to pay, the estimated adequacy of the underlying
collateral and other relevant factors. In addition, regulatory authorities, as an integral part of their examinations, periodically review the allowance for credit losses. They may require additions
to the allowance based upon their judgments about information available to them at the time of examination. Although provisions have been established and segmented by type of loan, based upon
management's assessment of their differing inherent loss characteristics, the entire allowance for credit losses is available to absorb further losses in any category. 
        Management
uses significant estimates to determine the allowance for credit losses. Because the allowance for credit losses is dependent, to a great extent, on conditions that may be
beyond DNB's control, management's estimate of the amount necessary to absorb credit losses and actual credit losses could differ. DNB's current judgment is that the allowance for credit losses
remains appropriate at December 31, 2011. 
VII. 2011 Financial Results 
 A.    Liquidity  
        Management maintains liquidity to meet depositors' needs for funds, to satisfy or fund loan commitments, and for other operating
purposes. DNB's foundation for liquidity is a stable and loyal customer deposit base, cash and cash equivalents, and a marketable investment portfolio that provides periodic cash flow through regular
maturities and amortization, or that can be used as collateral to secure funding. Primary liquidity includes investments, Federal funds sold, and interest-bearing cash balances, less pledged
securities. DNB also anticipates scheduled payments and prepayments on its loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. In addition, DNB maintains borrowing arrangements with various correspondent
banks, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia to meet short-term liquidity needs. Through these relationships, DNB has available credit of
approximately $184.7 million at December 31, 2011. Management believes that DNB has adequate resources to meet its short-term and long-term funding requirements. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, deposits totaled $497.5 million, up $4.8 million from $492.7 million at December 31, 2010. There were $66.0 million in
certificates of deposit (including IRAs) scheduled to mature during the next twelve months. At December 31, 2011, DNB had $57.7 million in un-funded loan commitments. In
addition, there was $4.0 million in un-funded letters of credit. Management anticipates the majority of these commitments will be funded by means of normal cash flows. 
30



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table sets forth the composition of DNB's deposits at the dates indicated. 
Deposits By Major Classification (Dollars in thousands)  

























 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Non-interest-bearing deposits
 
 $
68,371
 
 $
58,948
 
 $
46,236
 
 $
45,503
 
 $
48,741
 


 Interest-bearing deposits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 NOW
 
 
 171,321
 
 
 163,104
 
 
 151,597
 
 
 106,623
 
 
 82,912
 


 Money market
 
 
 107,368
 
 
 89,944
 
 
 102,427
 
 
 81,742
 
 
 93,029
 


 Savings
 
 
 45,250
 
 
 42,521
 
 
 35,973
 
 
 32,895
 
 
 38,362
 


 Certificates
 
 
 83,260
 
 
 114,259
 
 
 148,636
 
 
 124,665
 
 
 133,530
 


 IRA
 
 
 21,975
 
 
 23,970
 
 
 22,478
 
 
 17,042
 
 
 16,346
 


 
 


 Total deposits
 
 $
497,545
 
 $
492,746
 
 $
507,347
 
 $
408,470
 
 $
412,920
 


 
 





 Capital Resources and Adequacy  

        Stockholders' equity was $51.1 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $45.2 million at December 31, 2010.
The increase in stockholders' equity was primarily a result of year-to-date earnings of $4.9 million. Stockholders equity also increased by $1.3 million due to
participation in the U.S. Treasury's SBLF program and repayment of DNB's obligation under the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program ("CPP") as described below as well as a $1.3 million,
net-of-tax other comprehensive income adjustment for unrealized gains on the securities portfolio. These additions to stockholders equity were partially offset by an unrealized
actuarial loss on DNB's pension totaling $539,000, $458,000 to purchase a warrant DNB issued to the Treasury in its 2009 participation in CPP, $348,000 of dividends paid on DNB's Fixed Rate Cumulative
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2008A , $321,000 of dividends paid on DNB's common stock, and $215,000 of dividends accrued or paid on DNB's Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock, Series 2011A. 
        On
January 30, 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP") of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 administered by the United States Department of the
Treasury ("the Treasury"), DNB entered into a Letter Agreement and a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Treasury, pursuant to which DNB issued and sold on January 30, 2009, and the Treasury
purchased for cash on that date (i) 11,750 shares of DNB's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2008A, par value $10.00 per share, having a liquidation preference of
$1,000 per share ("the CPP
Shares"), and (ii) a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 186,311 shares of DNB's common stock, $1.00 par value, at an exercise price of $9.46 per share, for an aggregate purchase
price of $11,750,000 in cash. This transaction closed on January 30, 2009. The issuance and sale of these securities was a private placement exempt from registration pursuant to
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. The Bank provided dividends to DNB in connection with the $11,750,000 of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock sold on January 30,
2009 as part of the CPP through its redemption in 2011. 
        On
August 4, 2011, DNB entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to which DNB issued and sold to the Treasury 13,000 shares of its
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A ("Series 2011A Preferred Stock"), having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share for aggregate proceeds of
$13,000,000. The Securities Purchase Agreement was entered into, and the Series 2011A Preferred Stock was issued, pursuant to the Treasury's Small Business Lending Fund program ("SBLF"), a
$30 billion fund established under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, that encourages lending to small businesses by providing capital to qualified community banks with assets of less than
$10 billion. Of the $13 million in aggregate proceeds, $11,879,000 was used to repurchase all CPP Shares ($11,750,000 was paid in principal and $128,900 in accrued, unpaid dividends
related to the CPP Shares) held by the Treasury as described above. The securities sold in this transaction 
31



 
Table of Contents
were
exempt from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as a transaction by DNB not involving a public offering. 
        On
September 21, 2011, DNB entered into the Warrant Letter Agreement with the Treasury. Pursuant to the Warrant Letter Agreement, DNB Financial Corporation repurchased from
Treasury the warrant to purchase 186,311 shares of DNB Financial Corporation's common stock issued to Treasury in January 2009 under CPP. DNB Financial Corporation paid a purchase price of $458,000
for the warrant. 
        Management
believes that DNB and the Bank have each met the definition of "well capitalized" for regulatory purposes on December 31, 2011. The Bank's capital category is
determined for the purposes of applying the bank regulators' "prompt corrective action" regulations and for determining levels of deposit insurance assessments and may not constitute an accurate
representation of DNB's or the Bank's overall financial condition or prospects. DNB's capital exceeds the Federal Reserve Bank's ("FRB's") minimum leverage ratio requirements for bank holding
companies (see additional discussion in Regulatory Matters — Footnote 17 to DNB's consolidated financial statements). 
        Under
federal banking laws and regulations, DNB and the Bank are required to maintain minimum capital as determined by certain regulatory ratios. Capital adequacy for regulatory
purposes, and the capital category assigned to an institution by its regulators, may be determinative of an institution's overall financial condition. 
 B.    Results of Operations  
 1.    Summary of Performance 
 (a)    Summary of Results  
        For the year ended December 31, 2011, DNB reported net income of $4.9 million versus $3.7 million for 2010. Per
share earnings on a fully diluted basis were $1.53, up from $1.16 for the prior year. The global and U.S. economies are experiencing significantly reduced business activity as a result of disruptions
in the financial system during the past three years. The United States, Europe and many other countries across the globe are struggling with too much debt and weaker streams of revenues as a result of
recessionary pressures and high unemployment. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs
of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. Residential real estate activity in the Third Federal Reserve District
(the "Third District") has been sluggish with real estate agents reporting little traffic. A backlog of foreclosures, the volume of which was especially large in New Jersey, and flat to slightly
falling house prices continue to dampen demand for new and used homes. New construction activity continues to shift from the single-family market toward the multifamily market. Commercial and
industrial real estate activity has been mixed in the Third District during 2011. Slow, steady growth was observed with vacancy rates generally falling, rents steady or occasionally rising, and
concessions steady or occasionally falling. The overall outlook for demand of nonresidential space is for continued slow growth. 
        As
a result of the recession, retail customers may delay borrowing from DNB as unemployment remains high and availability to borrow against equity in primary residences diminishes. In
addition, many commercial customers have postponed their capital purchases until they see signs of an improving
economy and clear direction from the legislative branch of the government. Locally, business activity in the Third District has been more mixed and somewhat weaker overall. Several sectors have
continued to report slow, steady growth, and a few sectors have grown faster, while others have shifted to reporting slower growth, no growth, or declines. Manufacturing activity has shown some modest
increases in new orders and shipments. On balance, bank lending has remained mostly flat. Residential real estate and construction was perhaps most impacted by stock market volatility. Generally
positive results were reported by service-sector firms. Upward price pressures from food, energy, and other commodities have 
32



 
Table of Contents
lessened
somewhat. The ability to pass along costs remains mixed, and there is little evidence of wage pressure. 
        In
response to ongoing uncertainty, many of the Third District's business contacts, many of which have business models similar to DNB's small business clients, have slightly lowered
their expectations, with most firms projecting slow to flat growth for 2012. Third District manufacturers have reported further modest increases in new orders and shipments. Retailers are hopeful for
stronger sales; auto dealers are uncertain. Bankers have lowered their expectations for loan growth. The Third Districts' Commercial real estate contacts and service-sector firms have continued to
expect slow growth; however, uncertainty has increased. 
        Although
DNB's earnings have been impacted by the general economic conditions, the impact has not been as severe as it has been in many parts of the nation, due to a relatively healthier
economic climate in the Third Federal Reserve District and specifically Chester County. DNB's franchise spans both Chester and Delaware counties in southeastern Pennsylvania. The majority of loans
have been made to businesses and individuals in Chester County and the majority of deposits are from businesses and individuals within the County. According to available census data, Chester County's
population has grown at approximately 15%, compared to 13% for the nation and 3% for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The median household income in Chester County is $72,288 and the County ranks
14th nationally in disposable income. Chester County's unemployment rate stood at 5.4% as of December 2011, compared to the Pennsylvania unemployment rate of 7.4% and 8.3% nationally.
Traditionally, the unemployment rate has been the lowest in the surrounding five-county area and it ranks among the lowest unemployment rates in the Commonwealth. Chester County has a
civilian labor force of 266,100, with manufacturing jobs representing 23.1% of the workforce and retail shopping comprising 13.8% of the total employment. During the last few years, the County has
been able to keep most of its major employers, however some of them have downsized in order to remain competitive. Chester County is home to several Fortune 500 companies. Thirteen Chester County
employers have 1,000 employees or more. Of these 13 companies, two companies have more than 5,000 employees. 
        As
the U.S. and local economy moves through a period of reduced business activity and historically high unemployment rates, delinquencies will rise as the value of homes decline and
DNB's borrowers experience financial difficulty due to corporate downsizing, reduced sales, or other negative events which may impact their ability to meet their contractual loan payments. As a
result, growth in the loan portfolio and continued negative trends in the economy and their impact on our borrowers' ability to repay their loans, DNB made a $1.5 million provision for credit
losses during the year ended December 31, 2011. 
        These
and other factors have impacted our operations. We continue to focus on the consistency and stability of core earnings and balance sheet strength which are critical success factors
in today's challenging economic environment. During 2011, our focused and prudent approach allowed us to restructure the balance sheet and improve our net interest margin, while continuing to build
capital. We significantly reduced our funding cost and funded loan growth with increased core deposits and capital. We controlled non-interest expenses and made investments in core
business lines. 
 (b)    Significant Events, Transactions and Economic Changes Affecting Results  
        Some of DNB's significant events during 2011 include:


•Total loans and leases were $403.7 million at December 31, 2011, up $7.5 million or 1.9% from 2010.
The increase was primarily the result of originations by our loan officers, coupled with strategic purchases of Small Business Administration and United States Department of Agriculture guaranteed
loans. Commercial mortgage loans grew $14.2 million or 6.5% to $232.3 million and commercial loans increased $3.6 million or 3.7% to $101.1 million. This was offset by
declines in consumer loans of $5.1 million or 10.5% to $43.6 million, primarily due to the current economic environment, which has lessened consumer demand for home equity loan products
as a result of 

33



 
Table of Contents


falling
housing prices and a high unemployment rate. In addition, commercial leases declined $700,000 or 78.7% and residential mortgage loans declined $4.5 million or 14.5%. 


•DNB continued its focus on expense control and improving operational efficiencies throughout the bank. As a result,
non-interest expenses decreased $178,000 from 2010, primarily because the 2010's result included a $560,000 prepayment penalty paid to the FHLB of Pittsburgh. Absent this item,
non-interest expenses would have increased moderately by $382,000 or 2.3%, primarily related to an increase in salary and employee benefits due to a higher level of full-time
equivalent employees year over year. 
•DNB made $1.5 million in provisions for credit losses during the year in response to the $7.5 million growth
in the loan portfolio, as well as the impact that the economy has had on several borrowers. DNB's allowance for credit losses to total loans and leases ratio increased from 1.49% at
December 31, 2010, to 1.53% at December 31, 2011. 

 (c)    Trends and Uncertainties  
        Please refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Introductory
Overview on page 20 of this Form 10-K. 
 (d)    Material Changes in Results  
        Please refer to the discussion above in the section titled "Significant Events, Transactions and Economic Changes Affecting Results." 
 (e)    Effect of Inflation and Changing Rates  
        For detailed discussion of the effects of inflation and changes in rates on DNB's results, refer to the discussion below on "Net
Interest Income." 
 2.    Net Interest Income 
        DNB's earnings performance is primarily dependent upon its level of net interest income, which is the excess of interest income over
interest expense. Interest income includes interest earned on loans and leases (net of interest reversals on non-performing loans), investments and Federal funds sold, as well as net loan
fee amortization and dividend income. Interest expense includes the interest cost for deposits, FHLBP advances, repurchase agreements, corporate debentures, Federal funds purchased and other
borrowings. 
        During
the year ended December 31, 2011, management focused on strengthening DNB's net interest margin, as well as reducing our composite cost of funds. To accomplish these goals,
management shifted assets out of lower yielding investments and into higher yielding loans. DNB grew loans by $7.5 million or 1.9% during 2011 and reduced its investment portfolio by
$6.6 million or 4.4% during 2011. In addition to this shift in assets, DNB reduced its composite cost of funds from 1.25% in 2010 to .83% in 2011. Management continued to actively manage
deposits during 2011 to reduce its composite cost of funds. Transaction and savings accounts increased $37.8 million during 2011 to $392.3 million, while time deposits declined
$33.0 million to $105.2 million at December 31, 2011. 
        Interest
earned on loans and leases was $22.7 million for 2011 compared to $21.2 million for 2010. The average balance on loans and leases was $408.8 million with an
average yield of 5.60% in 2011 compared to an average balance of $371.5 million with an average yield of 5.73% in 2010. 
        Interest
and dividends on investment securities was $3.5 million and $4.8 million for 2011 and 2010, respectively. The average balance on investment securities was
$153.0 million with an average yield of 2.34% in 2011 compared to $182.9 million with an average yield of 2.63% in 2010. Interest and dividends 
34



 
Table of Contents
decreased
$1.3 million, primarily due to a lower average balance of securities and a lower yield on securities year over year. Total investment securities decreased $6.6 million from
December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 primarily due to $89.6 million of sales, maturities, calls and pay-downs during 2011, offset by the purchase of
$82.5 million of securities during 2011. 
        During
the quarter ended June 30, 2010, DNB sold its entire municipal securities portfolio, which had a book value of approximately $26.9 million for a net loss of $64,000.
Management sold the municipal securities out of the HTM portfolio due to media and headline risk related to municipal budget shortfalls, which management believes could impair the value of the bonds.
In particular, management believes that reported problems with budgets, in California and other states across the country that are experiencing budget shortfalls, could trickle down to individual
municipalities. In addition, numerous municipalities are struggling financially as promised pensions benefits for public sector employees represent a massive overhang that threatens the financial
future of many cities and states. This was a change in circumstances that was unusual and non-recurring, and could not have been reasonably anticipated when the bonds were placed in the
HTM Portfolio. In addition to the municipal securities, management sold mortgaged backed securities with a book value of $3.0 million out of the HTM portfolio for a net gain of $39,000. Such
sales are allowed under ASC 320 guidelines, as more than 85% of the principal outstanding at acquisition had been paid down, due to prepayments and normal scheduled payments. During 2011, DNB
purchased municipal securities which had an amortized cost of $12.4 million at December 31, 2011. All of these municipal securities were issued by school districts within the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. They are backed by the full faith, credit and taxing power of the issuing school district. All have strong underlying credit ratings and $11.2 million of these
securities are insured by a highly rated insurance company. In addition to these layers of credit rating, 100% of these securities are further enhanced by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania through
Pennsylvania's State Aid Intercept Program. 
        Interest
on deposits was $3.2 million for 2011 compared to $4.9 million for 2010. The average balance of interest-bearing deposits was $441.5 million with an average
rate of 0.73% for 2011 compared to $448.1 million with an average rate of 1.09% for 2010. The decrease in rate during both periods was primarily attributable to a lower interest rate
environment. 
        Interest
on FHLBP advances was $864,000 for 2011 compared to $1.5 million for 2010. The average balance on FHLBP advances was $20.3 million with an average rate of 4.25%
for 2011 compared to $33.1 million with an average rate of 4.53% for 2010. During the first quarter of 2010, DNB paid off $18.0 million of high cost FHLBP borrowings and incurred
$560,000 in FHLBP pre-payment penalties. 
        Interest
on repurchase agreements was $142,000 for 2011 compared to $197,000 for 2010. The average balance on repurchase agreements was $26.0 million with an average rate of 0.55%
for 2011 compared to $24.4 million with an average rate of 0.81% for 2010. The decrease in rate was primarily the result of the lower interest rate environment during 2011. 
 3.    Provision for Credit Losses 
        To provide for known and inherent losses in the loan and lease portfolio, DNB maintains an allowance for credit losses. There was a
$1.5 million provision made in 2011, compared to a $2.2 million provision made in 2010. Management made a $1.5 million provision in 2011 primarily in response to DNB's increased
level of loans outstanding. During 2011, loans increased $7.5 million or 1.9%. 
        For
a detailed discussion on DNB's reserving methodology, refer to "Item 1 — Determination of the allowance for credit losses" which can be found under
"Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates". 
 4.    Non-Interest Income 
        Non-interest income includes service charges on deposit products; fees received in connection with the sale of
non-depository products and services, including fiduciary and investment advisory services 
35



 
Table of Contents
offered
through DNB First Wealth Management; securities brokerage products and services and insurance products and services offered through DNB Investments & Insurance; and other sources of
income such as increases in the cash surrender value of Bank Owned Life Insurance ("BOLI"), net gains on sales of investment securities, SBA loans and other real estate owned ("OREO") properties. In
addition, DNB receives fees for cash management, remote capture, merchant services, debit cards, safe deposit box rentals and similar activities. 
        Non-interest
income was $3.6 million for 2011 compared to $5.4 million for 2010. The $1.8 million decrease was primarily due to a $2.0 million
decrease in net gains on sale of investment securities year over year. During 2011, DNB recognized $38,000 in net gains on the sale, redemption and calls of securities having a book value of
$69.4 million. During 2010, DNB recognized $2.0 million in net gains on the sale, redemption and calls of securities having a book value of $256.2 million. In
addition to the decrease in gains on the sale of securities, year over year, service charges on deposits declined by $134,000, primarily due to reduced non-sufficient funds charges. DNB
recognized $281,000 from gains on SBA loan sales during 2011, while there were no such gains in 2010. 
 5.    Non-Interest Expense 
        Non-interest expense includes salaries & employee benefits, furniture & equipment, occupancy,
professional & consulting fees as well as marketing, printing & supplies, FDIC insurance, PA shares tax, FHLB prepayment penalties and other less significant expense items. DNB continued
its focus on expense control and improving operational efficiencies throughout the bank. As a result, non-interest expenses decreased $178,000 from 2010, primarily because 2010 results
included a $560,000 prepayment penalty paid to the FHLB of Pittsburgh. Absent this item, non-interest expenses would have increased slightly by $382,000 or 2.3%. 
Salary and employee benefits.    Salary and employee benefits were $8.8 million for 2011 compared to $8.4 million for 2010. The
increase was attributable to a higher level of full-time equivalent employees year over year. 
Furniture and equipment.    Furniture and equipment expense was $1.3 million for 2011 compared to $1.4 million for 2010. The
decrease was primarily attributable to lower depreciation on existing furniture and equipment. 
Occupancy.    Occupancy expense was $1.9 million for 2011 compared to $1.7 million for 2010. The $186,000 increase was due to a
$164,000 increase in office building rental expense. The increase was primarily due to the expiration of the amortization period of a gain on a sale-lease-back transaction that
occurred in 2005. The remaining $22,000 increase was due to higher expenditures for snow removal, utilities and security. 
FDIC insurance.    FDIC insurance expense was $562,000 in 2011 compared to $809,000 in 2010. The $247,000 decrease was primarily due to
changes adopted by the FDIC, effective April 1, 2011, to its base and risk-based deposit insurance rates. Pursuant to the new rules, DNB's annual assessment base rates were based on
the bank's risk category. Prior to the FDIC adopting these new assessment base rates, insurance premiums were primarily based on the level of DNB's insured deposits. (See "Deposit Insurance
Assessments" on page 13 of this Form 10-K) 
FHLBP prepayment penalties.    DNB paid off $18.0 million of high cost FHLBP borrowings during the first quarter of 2010 and paid the
FHLBP $560,000 of pre-payment penalties. There were no such penalties in 2011. 
 6.    Income Taxes 
        Income tax expense was $2.1 million for 2011, compared to $1.6 million for 2010. Income tax expense for each period
differs from the amount determined at the statutory rate of 34.0% due to tax-exempt 
36



 
Table of Contents
income
on loans and investment securities, DNB's ownership of BOLI policies and tax credits recognized on a low-income housing limited partnership. The effective tax rates for 2011 and
2010 were 29.6% and 30.7%, respectively. The lower effective tax in 2011 was primarily due to higher levels of tax-exempt investment securities in 2011, compared to 2010. 
 
 
  Financial Condition Analysis     
 1.    Investment Securities 
        DNB's investment portfolio consists of US agency securities, mortgage-backed securities issued by US Government agencies,
collateralized mortgage obligations, state and municipal securities, bank stocks, and other bonds and notes. In addition to generating revenue, DNB maintains the investment portfolio to manage
interest rate risk, provide liquidity, provide collateral for borrowings and to diversify the credit risk of earning assets. The portfolio is structured to maximize DNB's net interest income given
changes in the economic environment, liquidity position and balance sheet mix. 
        Given
the nature of the portfolio, and its generally high credit quality, management normally expects to realize all of its investment upon the maturity of such instruments. Management
determines the
appropriate classification of securities at the time of purchase. Investment securities are classified as: (a) securities held to maturity ("HTM") based on management's intent and ability to
hold them to maturity; (b) trading account ("TA") securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term; and (c) securities available for sale
("AFS"). DNB does not currently maintain a trading account portfolio. 
        Securities
classified as AFS include securities that may be sold in response to changes in interest rates, changes in prepayment assumptions, the need to increase regulatory capital or
other similar requirements. DNB does not necessarily intend to sell such securities, but has classified them as AFS to provide flexibility to respond to liquidity needs. 
        DNB's
investment portfolio (HTM and AFS securities) totaled $144.0 million at December 31, 2011, down $6.6 million or 4.41% from $150.6 million at
December 31, 2010. 
        As
of June 16, 2011, DNB reclassified 3 mortgage backed securities and 2 collateralized mortgage obligations with book values (net carrying amount) of $12.5 million and
$7.7 million, respectively, from available-for-sale (AFS) to held-to-maturity (HTM). Reclassifying these 5 securities to HTM will reduce the
volatility and possible future negative effect on DNB's capital ratios, because HTM securities are not marked-to-market through other comprehensive income, but carried at their
amortized cost basis. In addition, the 5 securities that were reclassified to HTM will continue to produce strong cash flows for DNB's operating and funding needs. The fair value of the 3 mortgage
backed securities and 2 collateralized mortgage obligations was $12.4 million and $7.7 million, respectively at June 16, 2011, the date of their reclassification. The $116,000
difference between their book value and their fair value will be amortized as an adjustment to the carrying value of the investment securities over the remaining lives. 
        During
the quarter ended June 30, 2010, DNB sold its entire municipal securities portfolio, which had a book value of approximately $26.9 million for a net loss of $64,000.
Management sold the municipal securities out of the HTM portfolio due to media and headline risk related to municipal budget shortfalls, which management believes could impair the value of the bonds.
In particular, management believes that reported problems with budgets, in California and other states across the country that are experiencing budget shortfalls, could trickle down to individual
municipalities. In addition, numerous municipalities are struggling financially as promised pensions benefits for public sector employees represent a massive overhang that threatens the financial
future of many cities and states. This was a change in circumstances that was unusual and non-recurring, and could not have been reasonably anticipated when the bonds were placed in the
HTM Portfolio. In addition to the municipal securities, management sold mortgaged backed securities with a book value of $3.0 million out of the HTM portfolio for a net gain of $39,000. Such
sales 
37



 
Table of Contents
are
allowed under ASC 320 guidelines, as more than 85% of the principal outstanding at acquisition had been paid down, due to prepayments and normal scheduled payments. During 2011, DNB purchased
municipal securities which had an amortized cost of $12.4 million at December 31, 2011. All of these municipal securities were issued by school districts within the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. They are backed by the full faith, credit and taxing power of the issuing school district. All have strong underlying credit ratings and $11.2 million of these securities are
insured by a highly rated insurance company. In addition to these layers of credit rating, 100% of these securities are further enhanced by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania through Pennsylvania's
State Aid Intercept Program. 
        At
December 31, 2011, approximately 75% of DNB's investments were in the AFS portfolio and 25% were in the HTM portfolio. Investments consist mainly of mortgage-backed securities
and Agency notes backed by government sponsored enterprises, such as FHLMC, FNMA and FHLB. Management regularly reviews its investment portfolio to determine whether any securities are other than
temporarily impaired. DNB did not invest in securities backed by sub-prime mortgages. At December 31, 2011, the combined AFS and HTM portfolios had an unrealized pretax gain of
$2.2 million and an unrealized pretax loss of $926,000. There were no other than temporarily impaired securities. 
        The
following tables set forth information regarding the composition, stated maturity and average yield of DNB's investment security portfolio as of the dates indicated
(tax-exempt yields have been adjusted to a tax equivalent basis using a 34% tax rate). The first two tables do not include amortization or anticipated prepayments on mortgage-backed
securities. Callable securities are included at their stated maturity dates. 
 Investment Maturity Schedule, Including Weighted Average Yield (Dollars in thousands)  































 
 
December 31, 2011
 


Held to Maturity
 
Less than
1 Year
 
1-5
Years
 
5-10
Years
 
Over
10 Years
 
No
Stated
Maturity
 
Total
 
Yield
 


 
 


 US agency mortgage-backed securities
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,083
 
 $
11,280
 
 $
—
 
 $
14,363
 
 
 2.72
%


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,548
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,548
 
 
 5.90
 


 
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 66
 
 
 8,073
 
 
 —
 
 
 8,139
 
 
 2.25
 


 State and municipal tax-exempt
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 12,377
 
 
 —
 
 
 12,377
 
 
 3.90
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
4,697
 
 $
31,730
 
 $
—
 
 $
36,427
 
 
 3.15
%


 
 


 Percent of portfolio
 
 
 —
%
 
 —
%
 
 13
%
 
 87
%
 
 —
%
 
 100
%
 
 
 


 
 


 Weighted average yield
 
 
 —
%
 
 —
%
 
 4.82
%
 
 2.90
%
 
 —
%
 
 3.15
%
 
 
 


 
 




 































Available for Sale
 
Less than
1 Year
 
1-5
Years
 
5-10
Years
 
Over
10 Years
 
No
Stated
Maturity
 
Total
 
Yield
 


 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
 $
—
 
 $
34,200
 
 $
9,691
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
43,891
 
 
 1.12
%


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 773
 
 
 2,802
 
 
 21,738
 
 
 —
 
 
 25,313
 
 
 2.36
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,599
 
 
 4,553
 
 
 —
 
 
 6,152
 
 
 1.68
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 514
 
 
 22,556
 
 
 3,277
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 26,347
 
 
 2.93
 


 Asset-backed securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,815
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,815
 
 
 1.81
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 12
 
 
 12
 
 
 3.41
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
514
 
 $
57,529
 
 $
17,369
 
 $
32,106
 
 $
12
 
 $
107,530
 
 
 1.93
%


 
 


 Percent of portfolio
 
 
 —
%
 
 54
%
 
 16
%
 
 30
%
 
 —
%
 
 100
%
 
 
 


 
 


 Weighted average yield
 
 
 1.57
%
 
 1.73
%
 
 2.24
%
 
 2.15
%
 
 3.41
%
 
 1.93
%
 
 
 


 
 




38



 
Table of Contents
 Composition of Investment Securities (Dollars in thousands)  






















 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 
Held to
Maturity
 
Available
for Sale
 
Held to
Maturity
 
Available
for Sale
 


 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
 $
—
 
 $
43,891
 
 $
—
 
 $
44,244
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 1,548
 
 
 26,347
 
 
 —
 
 
 17,287
 


 US agency mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 14,363
 
 
 25,313
 
 
 7,085
 
 
 63,999
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
 8,139
 
 
 6,152
 
 
 1,346
 
 
 16,618
 


 State and municipal tax-exempt
 
 
 12,377
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Asset-backed securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,815
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 12
 
 
 —
 
 
 13
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
36,427
 
 $
107,530
 
 $
8,431
 
 $
142,161
 


 
 




 2.    Loans and Lease Portfolio 
        DNB's loan and lease portfolio consists primarily of commercial and residential real estate loans, commercial loans and lines of credit
(including commercial construction), commercial leases and consumer loans. The portfolio provides a stable source of interest income, monthly amortization of principal and, in the case of adjustable
rate loans, re-pricing opportunities. 
        Total
loans and leases were $403.7 million at December 31, 2011, up $7.5 million or 1.9% from 2010. The increase was primarily the result of originations by our loan
officers, coupled with strategic purchases of Small Business Administration and United States Department of Agriculture guaranteed loans. Commercial mortgage loans grew $14.2 million or 6.5% to
$232.3 million and commercial loans increased $3.6 million or 3.7% to $101.1 million. This was offset by declines in consumer loans of $5.1 million or 10.4% to
$43.6 million, primarily due to the current economic environment, which has lessened consumer demand for home equity loan products as a result of falling housing prices and a higher
unemployment rate. In addition, commercial leases declined $707,000 or 78.7% and residential mortgage loans declined $4.5 million or 14.5%. 
        The
following table sets forth information concerning the composition of total loans outstanding, net of unearned income and fees and the allowance for credit losses, as of the dates
indicated. 
 Total Loans and Leases Outstanding, Net of Allowance for Credit Losses (Dollars in thousands)  

























 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 $
26,461
 
 $
30,929
 
 $
40,951
 
 $
44,052
 
 $
46,448
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
 232,297
 
 
 218,099
 
 
 172,117
 
 
 138,897
 
 
 111,727
 


 Commercial
 
 
 101,120
 
 
 97,544
 
 
 87,778
 
 
 83,186
 
 
 81,021
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 191
 
 
 898
 
 
 3,077
 
 
 6,919
 
 
 13,593
 


 Consumer
 
 
 43,615
 
 
 48,701
 
 
 55,504
 
 
 63,400
 
 
 56,553
 


 
 


 Total loans and leases
 
 
 403,684
 
 
 396,171
 
 
 359,427
 
 
 336,454
 
 
 309,342
 


 Less allowance for credit losses
 
 
 (6,164
)
 
 (5,884
)
 
 (5,477
)
 
 (4,586
)
 
 (3,891
)


 
 


 Net loans and leases
 
 $
397,520
 
 $
390,287
 
 $
353,950
 
 $
331,868
 
 $
305,451
 


 
 




39




 










Table of Contents 
        The following table sets forth information concerning the contractual maturities of the loan portfolio, net of unearned income and fees. For amortizing loans,
scheduled repayments for the maturity category in which the payment is due are not reflected below, because such information is not readily available. 
 Loan and Lease Maturities (Dollars in thousands)  






















 
 
December 31, 2011
 


 
 
Less than
1 Year
 
1-5
Years
 
Over 5
Years
 
Total
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 $
11,602
 
 $
1,029
 
 $
13,830
 
 $
26,461
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
 18,554
 
 
 100,994
 
 
 112,749
 
 
 232,297
 


 Commercial
 
 
 20,891
 
 
 13,753
 
 
 66,476
 
 
 101,120
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 52
 
 
 139
 
 
 —
 
 
 191
 


 Consumer
 
 
 2,446
 
 
 11,109
 
 
 30,060
 
 
 43,615
 


 
 


 Total loans and leases
 
 
 53,545
 
 
 127,024
 
 
 223,115
 
 
 403,684
 


 
 


 Loans and leases with fixed interest rates
 
 
 16,434
 
 
 106,047
 
 
 153,747
 
 
 276,228
 


 Loans and leases with variable interest rates
 
 
 37,111
 
 
 20,977
 
 
 69,368
 
 
 127,456
 


 
 


 Total loans and leases
 
 $
53,545
 
 $
127,024
 
 $
223,115
 
 $
403,684
 


 
 




 3.    Non-Performing Assets 
        Total non-performing assets increased $69,000 to $11.6 million at December 31, 2011, compared to
$11.5 million at December 31, 2010. The $69,000 increase was attributable to a $209,000 increase in non-performing loans, a $210,000 increase in loans 90 days past due
and still accruing, offset by a $350,000 reduction in other real estate owned & other repossessed property. As a result of the slight increase in non-performing loans and a
$7.5 million net growth in loans, the non-performing loans to total loans ratio increased slightly to 1.89% at December 31, 2011, from 1.82% at December 31, 2010. The
non-performing assets to total assets ratio decreased to 1.91% at December 31, 2011 from 1.92% at December 31, 2010. The allowance to non-performing loans ratio
decreased from 81.5% at December 31, 2010 to 80.7% at December 31, 2011. DNB continues to work diligently to improve asset quality by adhering to strict underwriting standards and
improving lending policies and procedures. Non-performing assets have, and will continue to have, an impact on earnings; therefore management intends to continue working aggressively to
reduce the level of such assets. 
        Non-performing
assets are comprised of non-accrual loans and leases, loans and leases delinquent over ninety days and still accruing, troubled debt restructurings
("TDRs") as well as Other Real Estate Owned ("OREO") and other repossessed assets. Non-accrual loans and leases are loans and leases for which the accrual of interest
ceases when the collection of principal or interest payments is determined to be doubtful by management. It is the policy of DNB to discontinue the accrual of interest when principal or interest
payments are delinquent 90 days or more (unless the loan principal and interest are determined by management to be fully secured and in the process of collection), or earlier if considered
prudent. Interest received on such loans is applied to the principal balance, or may, in some instances, be recognized as income on a cash basis. A non-accrual loan or lease may be
restored to accrual status when management expects to collect all contractual principal and interest due and the borrower has demonstrated a sustained period of repayment performance in accordance
with the contractual terms. OREO consists of real estate acquired by foreclosure. Other repossessed assets are primarily assets from DNB's commercial lease portfolio that were repossessed. OREO and
other repossessed assets are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, less estimated disposition costs. Any significant change in the level of non-performing assets is
dependent, to a large extent, on the economic climate within DNB's market area. 
40



 
Table of Contents
        DNB's
Credit Policy Committee monitors the performance of the loan and lease portfolio to identify potential problem assets on a timely basis. Committee members meet to design, implement
and review asset recovery strategies, which serve to maximize the recovery of each troubled asset. As of December 31, 2011, DNB had $9.2 million of loans classified as substandard,
which, although performing at that date, are believed to require increased supervision and review; and may, depending on the economic environment and other factors, become non-performing
assets in future periods. The amount of such loans at December 31, 2010 was $11.3 million. The majority of the loans are secured by commercial real estate, with lesser amounts being
secured by residential real estate, inventory and receivables. 
        The
following table sets forth those assets that are: (i) placed on non-accrual status, (ii) contractually delinquent by 90 days or more and still
accruing, (iii) troubled debt restructurings other than those included in items (i) and (ii), and (iv) OREO as a result of foreclosure or voluntary transfer to DNB as well as
other repossessed assets. 
 Non-Performing Assets (Dollars in thousands)  

























 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Non-accrual loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 $
1,873
 
 $
2,334
 
 $
3,081
 
 $
362
 
 $
697
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
 2,114
 
 
 834
 
 
 1,317
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Commercial
 
 
 3,233
 
 
 3,722
 
 
 4,374
 
 
 1,163
 
 
 —
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 61
 
 
 273
 
 
 157
 
 
 14
 
 
 255
 


 Consumer
 
 
 151
 
 
 60
 
 
 62
 
 
 286
 
 
 569
 


 
 


 Total non-accrual loans
 
 
 7,432
 
 
 7,223
 
 
 8,991
 
 
 1,825
 
 
 1,521
 


 Loans 90 days past due and still accruing (*)
 
 
 210
 
 
 —
 
 
 191
 
 
 900
 
 
 345
 


 Troubled debt restructurings
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Total non-performing loans
 
 
 7,642
 
 
 7,223
 
 
 9,182
 
 
 2,725
 
 
 1,866
 


 Other real estate owned & other repossessed property
 
 
 3,974
 
 
 4,324
 
 
 4,489
 
 
 4,997
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Total non-performing assets
 
 $
11,616
 
 $
11,547
 
 $
13,671
 
 $
7,722
 
 $
1,866
 


 
 


 Asset quality ratios:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-performing loans to total loans
 
 
 1.89
%
 
 1.82
%
 
 2.6
%
 
 0.8
%
 
 0.6
%


 Non-performing assets to total assets
 
 
 1.91
 
 
 1.92
 
 
 2.16
 
 
 1.45
 
 
 0.34
 


 Allowance for credit losses to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total loans and leases
 
 
 1.53
 
 
 1.49
 
 
 1.52
 
 
 1.36
 
 
 1.26
 


 Non-performing loans and leases
 
 
 80.7
 
 
 81.5
 
 
 59.6
 
 
 168.3
 
 
 208.5
 


 
 






(*)One
loan in 2010 had a balance less than $1,000 

        Included
in the loan portfolio are loans for which DNB has ceased the accrual of interest (i.e. non-accrual loans). Loans of approximately $7.4 million and
$7.2 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were on a non-accrual basis. DNB also had loans of approximately $210,000 and $1,000 that were 90 days or
more delinquent, but still accruing, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. If 
41



 
Table of Contents
contractual
interest income had been recorded on non-accrual loans, interest would have been increased as shown in the following table: 
















 
 
Year Ended
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Interest income which would have been recorded under original terms
 
 $
357
 
 $
452
 


 Interest income recorded during the year
 
 
 (36
)
 
 (42
)


 
 


 Net impact on interest income
 
 $
321
 
 $
410
 


 
 




 4.    Allowance for Credit Losses 
        To provide for known and inherent losses in the loan and lease portfolios, DNB maintains an allowance for credit losses. Provisions for
credit losses are charged against income to increase the allowance when necessary. Loan and lease losses are charged directly against the allowance and recoveries on previously charged-off
loans and leases are added to the allowance. In establishing its allowance for credit losses, management considers the size and risk exposure of each segment of the loan and lease portfolio, past loss
experience, present indicators of risk such as delinquency rates, levels of non-accruals, the potential for losses in future periods, and other relevant factors. Management's evaluation of
criticized and classified loans generally includes reviews of borrowers of $100,000 or greater. Consideration is also given to examinations performed by regulatory agencies, primarily the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"). 
        Management
reviews and establishes the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, guidance provided by the Securities
and Exchange Commission and as prescribed in OCC Bulletin 2006-47. Its methodology for assessing the appropriateness of the allowance consists of several key elements which include:
specific allowances for identified impaired loans; and allowances by loan type for pooled homogenous loans. In considering national and local economic trends, we review a variety of information
including Federal Reserve publications, general economic statistics, foreclosure rates and housing statistics published by third parties. We believe this improves the measure of inherent loss over a
complete economic cycle and reduces the impact for qualitative adjustments. The unallocated portion of the allowance is intended to provide for probable losses not otherwise accounted for in
management's other elements of its overall estimate. An unallocated component is maintained to cover uncertainties such as changes in the national and local economy, concentrations of credit,
expansion into new markets and other factors that could affect management's estimate of probable losses. The unallocated component of the allowance reflects the margin of imprecision inherent in the
underlying assumptions used in the methodologies for estimating specific and general losses in the portfolio. 
        In
addition, DNB reviews historical loss experience for the commercial real estate, commercial, residential real estate, home equity and consumer installment loan pools to determine a
historical loss factor. The historical loss factors are then applied to the current portfolio balances to determine the required reserve percentage for each loan pool based on risk rating. Historical
losses are segregated into risk-similar groups and a loss ratio is determined for each group over a three year period. The three year average loss ratio by type is then used to calculate
the estimated loss based on the current balance of each group. This three year time period is appropriate given DNB's historical level of losses and, more importantly, represents the current economic
environment. 
        This
analysis is intended to assess the potential for loss within the loan portfolio and to substantiate the adequacy of the allowance. Should the analysis indicate that the allowance is
not adequate, management will recommend a provision expense be made in an amount equal to the shortfall derived. In establishing and reviewing the allowance for adequacy, emphasis has been placed on
utilizing the 
42



 
Table of Contents
methodology
prescribed in OCC Bulletin 2006-47. Management believes that the following factors create a comprehensive system of controls in which management can monitor the quality of the
loan portfolio. Consideration has been given to the following factors and variables which may influence the risk of loss within the loan portfolio:


•Changes in the nature and volume of the portfolio and in the terms of loans  
•Changes in the volume and severity of past due loans, the volume of non-accrual loans, and the volume and
severity of adversely classified or graded loans 
•The existence and effect of any concentrations of credit, and changes in the level of such concentrations  
•Changes in lending policies and procedures, including changes in underwriting standards and collection,
charge-off, and recovery practices not considered elsewhere in estimating credit losses 
•Changes in the experience, ability, and depth of lending management and other relevant staff  
•Changes in the quality of the institution's loan review system 
•Changes in international, national, regional, and local economic and business conditions and developments that affect the
collectability of the portfolio, including the condition of various market segments 
•The effect of other external factors such as competition and legal and regulatory requirements on the level of estimated
credit losses in the institution's existing portfolio
•Changes in the value of underlying collateral for collateral-dependent loans 

        Portfolio
risk includes the levels and trends in delinquencies, impaired loans, changes in the loan rating matrix and trends in volume and terms of loans. Management is satisfied with
the stability of the past due and non-performing loans and believes there has been no further decline in the quality of the loan portfolio due to any trend in delinquent or adversely
classified loans. In determining the adequacy of the allowance, management considered the deterioration of asset quality in DNB's commercial mortgage and residential first mortgage portfolios, which
were factors contributing to the increase in the level of allowance during 2011 and 2010. In addition to ordering new appraisals and creating specific reserves on impaired loans, the allowance
allocation rates were increased, reflective of delinquency trends which have been caused by continued weakness in the housing markets, falling home equity values, and rising unemployment. New
appraisal values we have obtained for existing loans have generally been consistent with trends indicated by Case-Schiller and other indices. 
        Given
the contraction in real estate values, DNB closely monitors the loan to value ratios of all classified assets and requires periodic current appraisals to monitor underlying
collateral values. Management also reviews borrower, sponsorship and guarantor's financial strength along with their ability and willingness to provide financial support of their obligations on an
immediate and continuing basis. 
        There
was a $1.5 million provision made in 2011, compared to $2.2 million in 2010. DNB's percentage of allowance for credit losses to total loans and leases was 1.53% at
December 31, 2011 compared to 1.49%, 1.52% and 1.36% for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Management monitors DNB's performance metrics including those
ratios related to non-performing loans and leases. The allowance as a percentage of total loans and leases has been relatively flat over the last four years (1.36%-1.53%) at
the same time DNB has seen deterioration in the credit quality of the loan portfolio, as evidenced by the increase in non-performing assets since 2008 ($7.7 million,
$13.7 million, $11.5 million, and $11.6 million at December 31, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Net charge-offs were $1.2 million in 2011
compared to $1.8 million and $434,000 in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The percentage of net charge-offs to total average loans and leases were 0.29%, 0.49% and
0.13% during the three years ending December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Management is not aware of any 
43



 
Table of Contents
potential
problem loans, which were accruing and current at December 31, 2011, where serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present repayment terms and that
would result in a significant loss to DNB. 
        The
increase in the allowance for loan loss ratio reflects management's estimate of the level of inherent losses in the portfolio, which continued to increase during 2011 due to a
$7.5 million increase in gross loans, a recessionary economy, continued high unemployment, a weakened housing market and deterioration in income-producing properties. 
        We
typically establish a general valuation allowance on classified loans which are not impaired. In establishing the general valuation allowance, we segregate these loans by category.
The categories used by DNB include "doubtful," "substandard," "special mention," "watch list" and "pass." For commercial and construction loans, the determination of the category for each loan is
based on periodic reviews of each loan by our lending and credit officers as well as an independent, third-party consultant. The reviews include a consideration of such factors as recent payment
history, current financial data, cash flow, financial projections, collateral evaluations, guarantor or sponsorship financial strength and current economic and business conditions. Categories for
mortgage and consumer loans are determined through a similar review. Classification of a loan within a category is based on identified weaknesses that increase the credit risk of loss on the loan.
Each category carries a loss factor for the allowance percentage to be assigned to the loans within that category. The allowance percentage, is determined based on inherent losses associated with each
type of lending as determined through consideration of our loss history with each type of loan, trends in credit quality and collateral values, and an evaluation of current economic and business
conditions. 
        We
establish a general allowance on non-classified loans to recognize the inherent losses associated with lending activities, but which, unlike specific allowances, have not
been allocated to particular problem loans. This general valuation allowance is determined by segregating the loans by loan category and assigning allowance percentages to each category. An evaluation
of each category is made to determine the need to further segregate the loans within each category by type. For our residential mortgage and consumer loan portfolios, we identify similar
characteristics throughout the portfolio including credit scores, loan-to-value ratios and collateral. For our commercial real estate and construction loan portfolios, a
further analysis is made in which we segregated the loans by type based on the purpose of the loan and the collateral properties securing the loan. Various risk factors for each type of loan are
considered, including the impact of general economic and business conditions, collateral value trends, credit quality trends and historical loss experience. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, DNB had $11.6 million of non-performing assets, which included $7.6 million of non-performing or impaired loans and
$4.0 million of OREO. Loans are reviewed for impairment in accordance with FASB ASC 310-10-35. Impaired loans can either be secured or unsecured, not including large
groups of smaller balance loans that are collectively evaluated. Impairment is measured by the difference between the loan amount and the present value of the future cash flow discounted at the loan's
effective interest rate. Management measures loans for impairment by using the fair value of collateral for collateral dependent loans. In general, management reduces the amount of the appraisal by
the estimated cost of acquisition and disposition of the underlying collateral and compares that adjusted value with DNB's carrying value. As part of the general allowance, DNB reserves at the rate of
approximately 6% to 10% on non-performing or impaired loans. DNB establishes a specific valuation allowance on impaired loans that have a collateral shortfall, including estimated costs to
sell in comparison to the carrying value of the loan. Of the $7.6 million of impaired loans at December 31, 2011, $4.8 million had a valuation allowance of $1.2 million and
$2.8 million had no specific allowance above the general allowance as of December 31, 2011. For those impaired loans that management determined that no specific valuation allowance was
necessary, management has reviewed the appraisal for each loan and determined that there is no shortfall in the collateral. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we 
44



 
Table of Contents
recognized
$1.2 million in charge-offs related to impaired loans. An impaired loan may not represent an expected loss. 
        We
typically order new third-party appraisals or collateral valuations when a loan becomes impaired or is transferred to OREO. This is done within two weeks of a loan becoming impaired
or a loan moving to OREO. It generally takes two to eight weeks to receive the appraisals, depending on the type of property being appraised. We recognize any provision or related
charge-off within two weeks of receiving the appraisal after the appraisal has been reviewed by DNB. We generally order a new appraisal for all impaired real estate loans having a balance
of $100,000 or higher, every twelve months, unless management determines more frequent appraisals are necessary. We use updated valuations when time constraints do not permit a full appraisal process,
to reflect rapidly changing market conditions. Because appraisals and updated valuations utilize historical data in reaching valuation conclusions, the appraised or updated value may or may not
reflect the actual sales price that we will receive at the time of sale. Management uses the qualitative factor "Changes in the value of underlying collateral for collateral-dependent loans" to
calculate any required write-down to mitigate this risk. 
        Real
estate appraisals typically include up to three approaches to value: the sales comparison approach, the income approach (for income-producing property) and the cost approach. Not
all appraisals utilize all three approaches to value. Depending on the nature of the collateral and market conditions, the appraiser may emphasize one approach over another in determining the fair
value of collateral. 
        Appraisals
may also contain different estimates of value based on the level of occupancy or future improvements. "As-is" valuations represent an estimate of value based on
current market conditions with no changes to the collateral's use or condition. "As-stabilized" or "as-completed" valuations assume that the collateral is improved to a stated
standard or achieves its highest and best use in terms of occupancy. "As-stabilized" valuations may be subject to a present value adjustment for market conditions or the schedule for
improvements. 
        In
connection with the valuation process, we will typically develop an exit strategy for the collateral by assessing overall market conditions, the current condition and use of the asset
and its highest and best use. For most income-producing real estate, investors value most highly a stable income stream from the asset; consequently, we conduct a comparative evaluation to determine
whether conducting a sale on an "as-is" basis or on an "as-stabilized" basis is most likely to produce the highest net realizable value and compare these values with the costs
incurred and the holding period necessary to achieve the "as stabilized" value. 
        Our
estimates of the net realizable value of collateral include a deduction for the expected costs to sell the collateral or such other deductions as deemed appropriate. For most real
estate collateral, we apply a seven to ten percent deduction to the value of real estate collateral to determine its expected costs to sell the asset. This estimate generally includes real estate
commissions, one year of real estate taxes and miscellaneous repair and closing costs. If we receive a purchase offer that requires unbudgeted repairs, or if the expected holding period for the asset
exceeds one year, then we include the additional real estate taxes and repairs or other holding costs in the expected costs to sell the collateral on a case-by-case basis. 
45




 











Table of Contents 
 Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses (Dollars in thousands)  

























 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Beginning balance
 
 $
5,884
 
 $
5,477
 
 $
4,586
 
 $
3,891
 
 $
4,226
 


 Provisions
 
 
 1,480
 
 
 2,216
 
 
 1,325
 
 
 2,018
 
 
 60
 


 Loans charged off:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 
 (280
)
 
 (520
)
 
 (390
)
 
 (132
)
 
 —
 


 Commercial
 
 
 (768
)
 
 (577
)
 
 (99
)
 
 (374
)
 
 (1
)


 Lease financing
 
 
 (200
)
 
 (548
)
 
 (61
)
 
 (287
)
 
 (458
)


 Consumer
 
 
 (64
)
 
 (210
)
 
 (45
)
 
 (608
)
 
 (27
)


 
 


 Total charged off
 
 
 (1,312
)
 
 (1,855
)
 
 (595
)
 
 (1,401
)
 
 (486
)


 
 


 Recoveries:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 
 79
 
 
 15
 
 
 31
 
 
 8
 
 
 7
 


 Commercial
 
 
 9
 
 
 11
 
 
 117
 
 
 35
 
 
 15
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 3
 
 
 20
 
 
 12
 
 
 28
 
 
 62
 


 Consumer
 
 
 21
 
 
 —
 
 
 1
 
 
 7
 
 
 7
 


 
 


 Total recoveries
 
 
 112
 
 
 46
 
 
 161
 
 
 78
 
 
 91
 


 
 


 Ending balance
 
 $
6,164
 
 $
5,884
 
 $
5,477
 
 $
4,586
 
 $
3,891
 


 
 


 Reserve for unfunded loan commitments
 
 $
99
 
 $
150
 
 $
149
 
 $
139
 
 $
67
 


 
 




        The
following table sets forth the composition of DNB's allowance for credit losses at the dates indicated. 
 Composition of Allowance for Credit Losses (Dollars in thousands)  








































 
 
December 31
 


 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 
Amount
 
Percent of
Loan Type
to Total
Loans
 
Amount
 
Percent of
Loan Type
to Total
Loans
 
Amount
 
Percent of
Loan Type
to Total
Loans
 
Amount
 
Percent of
Loan Type
to Total
Loans
 
Amount
 
Percent of
Loan Type
to Total
Loans
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 $
383
 
 
6
%
 $
454
 
 
8
%
$
648
 
 
11
%
$
225
 
 
13
%
$
178
 
 
15
%


 Commercial
 
 
 4,945
 
 
83
 
 
 4,387
 
 
80
 
 
3,800
 
 
72
 
 
2,846
 
 
66
 
 
1,886
 
 
62
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 10
 
 
—
 
 
 86
 
 
—
 
 
150
 
 
1
 
 
450
 
 
2
 
 
680
 
 
5
 


 Consumer
 
 
 260
 
 
11
 
 
 482
 
 
12
 
 
473
 
 
16
 
 
407
 
 
19
 
 
821
 
 
18
 


 Unallocated
 
 
 566
 
 
—
 
 
 475
 
 
—
 
 
406
 
 
—
 
 
658
 
 
—
 
 
326
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
6,164
 
 
100
%
 $
5,884
 
 
100
%
$
5,477
 
 
100
%
$
4,586
 
 
100
%
$
3,891
 
 
100
%


 
 


 Reserve for unfunded loan commitments (other liability)
 
 $
99
 
 
—
 
 $
150
 
 
—
 
$
149
 
 
—
 
$
139
 
 
—
 
$
67
 
 
—
 


 
 




 5.    Certain Regulatory Matters 
        Recent market conditions have made it difficult or uneconomical to access the capital markets. As a result, at the end of 2008
and the beginning of 2009, the United States Congress, the Treasury, and the FDIC announced various programs designed to enhance market liquidity and bank capital. On January 30, 2009,
as part of the CPP administered by the United States Department of the Treasury, DNB Financial Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement and a Securities Purchase Agreement with the U.S. 
46



 
Table of Contents
Treasury.
On August 4, 2011, DNB repurchased all CPP Shares in conjunction with its participation in the Treasury's Small Business Lending Fund program ("SBLF"), (see additional discussion in
Participation in U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program and Small Business Lending Fund program, on page 7 of this Form 10-K). 
        Dividends
payable to DNB by the Bank are subject to certain regulatory limitations. Under normal circumstances, the payment of dividends in any year without regulatory permission is
limited to the net profits (as defined for regulatory purposes) for that year, plus the retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years. The sum of these items amounted to
$5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. During 2011, the Bank paid $2.8 million to DNB. During 2012, the Bank will need to provide dividends to DNB in
connection with the $13.0 million of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock sold on August 4, 2011 as part of the Small Business Lending Fund program administered by the
United States Treasury. 
        The
FDIC has authority to assess and change federal deposit insurance assessment rates on assessable deposits of the Bank. For further information, please refer to the discussion of FDIC
deposit insurance assessments under Part I, Item 1 ("Business"), section (c) ("Narrative Description of Business") — "Supervision and
Regulation — Bank" under the heading "Deposit Insurance Assessments" on page 13 of this report. DNB's FDIC insurance expense was $562,000 in 2011. 
        DNB
was well capitalized at December 31, 2011 and met all regulatory capital requirements. Please refer to Footnote 17 for a table that summarizes required capital ratios and the
corresponding regulatory capital positions of DNB and the Bank at December 31, 2011. 
        The
Board of Directors of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLBP) declared a dividend equal to an annual yield of 0.10% on February 22, 2012. The $648 dividend received
by DNB on February 23, 2012 was calculated on our average balance of FHLBP stock held from October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. On February 23, 2012, the FHLBP repurchased
excess capital stock. The amount of excess capital stock repurchased by the FHLBP from any member was the lesser of five percent of the member's total capital stock outstanding or its excess capital
stock outstanding. The FHLBP repurchased 1,266 shares from DNB for $126,600 on February 23, 2012. 
 6.    Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 
        In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding, such as guarantees and commitments to
extend credit, borrow money or act in a fiduciary capacity, which are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Management does not anticipate any significant losses as a result of these
commitments. 
        DNB
had outstanding stand-by letters of credit totaling $4.0 million and unfunded loan and lines of credit commitments totaling $57.7 million at
December 31, 2011. 
        These
instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized on the balance sheet. The exposure to credit loss, in the
event of non-performance by the party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit and stand-by letters of credit, is represented by the contractual amount.
Management uses the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for on-balance-sheet instruments. 
        Commitments
to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed
expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require the payment of a fee. DNB evaluates each customer's creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of
collateral, if any, obtained upon the extension of credit, usually consists of real estate, but may include securities, property or other assets. 
47



 
Table of Contents
        Stand-by
letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by DNB to guarantee the performance or repayment of a financial obligation of a customer to a third party. Those
guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements. The credit risks involved in issuing letters of credit are essentially the same as those involved in extending
loan facilities to customers. DNB holds various forms of collateral to support these commitments. 
        DNB
maintains borrowing arrangements with various correspondent banks, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia to meet
short-term liquidity needs. Through these relationships, DNB has available credit of approximately $184.7 million at
December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, DNB had borrowed $20.0 million and the FHLBP had issued letters of credit, on DNB's behalf, totaling $20.0 million against its
available credit lines. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, approximately $45.1 million of assets are held by DNB First Wealth Management in a fiduciary, custody or agency capacity. These assets are not
assets of DNB, and are not included in the consolidated financial statements. 
        The
following table sets forth DNB's known contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011. The amounts presented below do not include interest. 
 Contractual Obligations (Dollars in thousands)  

























 
 
Payments Due by Period
 


 
 
Total
 
Less than
1 Year
 
1-3
Years
 
3-5
Years
 
More than
5 Years
 


 
 


 FHLBP advances
 
$
20,000
 
$
—
 
$
20,000
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 Repurchase agreements
 
 
23,770
 
 
23,770
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Capital lease obligations
 
 
598
 
 
27
 
 
66
 
 
87
 
 
418
 


 Operating lease obligations
 
 
3,767
 
 
602
 
 
1,127
 
 
746
 
 
1,292
 


 Junior subordinated debentures
 
 
9,279
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
9,279
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
57,414
 
$
24,399
 
$
21,193
 
$
833
 
$
10,989
 


 
 




 Off Balance Sheet Obligations (Dollars in thousands)  

























 
 
Expiration by Period 
 


 
 
Total
 
Less than
1 Year
 
1-3
Years
 
3-5
Years
 
More than
5 Years
 


 
 


 Commitments to extend credit
 
$
57,719
 
$
6,225
 
$
7,263
 
$
2,377
 
$
41,854
 


 Letters of credit
 
 
4,029
 
 
2,969
 
 
1,034
 
 
—
 
 
26
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
61,748
 
$
9,194
 
$
8,297
 
$
2,377
 
$
41,880
 


 
 




        During 2012,
the Bank will need to provide dividends to DNB in connection with the $13.0 million of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock sold on
August 4, 2011 as part of the Small
Business Lending Fund program administered by the United States Treasury. These payments are not included in the table above. 
  
 
Item 7A.        Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk     
        To measure the impacts of longer-term asset and liability mismatches beyond two years, DNB utilizes Key Rate Duration and Economic Value of Equity
("EVE") models. The Key Rate Duration measures the differences in durations in various maturity buckets and indicates potential asset and liability mismatches. 
48



 
Table of Contents
Because
of balance sheet optionality, an EVE analysis is also used to dynamically model the present value of asset and liability cash flows, with rates ranging up or down 200 basis points. The
economic value of equity is likely to be different if rates change. Results falling outside prescribed ranges require action by management. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, DNB's variance in the
economic value of equity as a percentage of assets with an instantaneous and sustained parallel shift of 200 basis points was within its negative 3% guideline, as shown in the table below. The
change as a percentage of the present value of equity with a 200 basis point increase or decrease at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was within DNB's negative 25% guideline. 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Dollars in thousands)  




























 
 
December 31, 2011
 
December 31, 2010
 


 
 


Change in rates
 
Flat
 
-200bp
 
+200bp
 
Flat
 
-200bp
 
+200bp
 


 
 


 EVE
 
 $
54,877
 
$
51,041
 
$
49,134
 
 $
41,867
 
$
44,026
 
$
33,395
 


 Change
 
 
 
 
 
(3,836
)
 
(5,743
)
 
 
 
 
2,159
 
 
(8,472
)


 Change as a % of assets
 
 
 
 
 
 (0.6
)%
 
 (0.9
)%
 
 
 
 
0.4
%
 
 (1.4
)%


 Change as a % of PV equity
 
 
 
 
 
 (7.0
)%
 
 (10.5
)%
 
 
 
 
5.2
%
 
 (20.2
)%


 
 




49




 











Table of Contents 
  
 
Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data     
         
 DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition (Dollars in thousands, except share data)  


















 
 


 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and due from banks
 
 $
32,877
 
 $
18,360
 


 Federal funds sold
 
 
 —
 
 
 8,000
 


 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 32,877
 
 
 26,360
 


 
 


 AFS investment securities at fair value (amortized cost of $107,543 in 2011 and $144,205 in 2010)
 
 
 107,530
 
 
 142,161
 


 HTM investment securities (fair value of $37,681 in 2011 and $8,723 in 2010)
 
 
 36,427
 
 
 8,431
 


 
 


 Total investment securities
 
 
 143,957
 
 
 150,592
 


 
 


 Loans and leases
 
 
 403,684
 
 
 396,171
 


 Allowance for credit losses
 
 
 (6,164
)
 
 (5,884
)


 
 


 Net loans and leases
 
 
 397,520
 
 
 390,287
 


 
 


 Restricted stock
 
 
 3,625
 
 
 4,201
 


 Office property and equipment, net
 
 
 7,846
 
 
 8,248
 


 Accrued interest receivable
 
 
 2,536
 
 
 2,283
 


 OREO & other repossessed property
 
 
 3,974
 
 
 4,324
 


 Bank owned life insurance (BOLI)
 
 
 8,383
 
 
 8,137
 


 Core deposit intangible
 
 
 111
 
 
 160
 


 Net deferred taxes
 
 
 3,614
 
 
 3,822
 


 Other assets
 
 
 2,656
 
 
 3,918
 


 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
607,099
 
 $
602,332
 


 
 


 Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-interest-bearing deposits
 
 $
68,371
 
 $
58,948
 


 Interest-bearing deposits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 NOW
 
 
 171,321
 
 
 163,104
 


 Money market
 
 
 107,368
 
 
 89,944
 


 Savings
 
 
 45,250
 
 
 42,521
 


 Time
 
 
 105,235
 
 
 138,229
 


 
 


 Total deposits
 
 
 497,545
 
 
 492,746
 


 
 


 Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLBP) advances
 
 
 20,000
 
 
 25,000
 


 Repurchase agreements
 
 
 23,770
 
 
 23,349
 


 Junior subordinated debentures
 
 
 9,279
 
 
 9,279
 


 Other borrowings
 
 
 598
 
 
 2,602
 


 
 


 Total borrowings
 
 
 53,647
 
 
 60,230
 


 
 


 Accrued interest payable
 
 
 444
 
 
 527
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 4,407
 
 
 3,621
 


 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 556,043
 
 
 557,124
 


 
 


 Commitments and contingencies
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Stockholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock, $10.00 par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized; $1,000 liquidation preference per share; 13,000 and 11,750 shares issued
respectively
 
 
 12,962
 
 
 11,541
 


 Common stock, $1.00 par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; 2,882,503 and 2,874,694 issued, respectively
 
 
 2,891
 
 
 2,884
 


 Stock warrants
 
 
 —
 
 
 151
 


 Treasury stock, at cost; 187,654 and 213,545 shares, respectively
 
 
 (4,252
)
 
 (4,515
)


 Surplus
 
 
 35,060
 
 
 35,294
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 5,871
 
 
 2,069
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net
 
 
 (1,476
)
 
 (2,216
)


 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
 51,056
 
 
 45,208
 


 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
607,099
 
 $
602,332
 


 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
50



 
Table of Contents
  
 DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated
Statements of Income (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share data)  


















 
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Interest and Dividend Income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest and fees on loans and leases
 
 
 $  22,651
 
 
 $  21,186
 


 Interest and dividends on investment securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Taxable
 
 
 3,250
 
 
 4,722
 


 Exempt from federal taxes
 
 
 217
 
 
 64
 


 Interest on cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 56
 
 
 78
 


 
 


 Total interest and dividend income
 
 
 26,174
 
 
 26,050
 


 
 


 Interest Expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest on NOW, money market and savings
 
 
 1,045
 
 
 1,913
 


 Interest on time deposits
 
 
 2,190
 
 
 2,992
 


 Interest on FHLBP advances
 
 
 864
 
 
 1,500
 


 Interest on repurchase agreements
 
 
 142
 
 
 197
 


 Interest on junior subordinated debentures
 
 
 308
 
 
 374
 


 Interest on other borrowings
 
 
 95
 
 
 86
 


 
 


 Total interest expense
 
 
 4,644
 
 
 7,062
 


 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
 21,530
 
 
 18,988
 


 Provision for credit losses
 
 
 1,480
 
 
 2,216
 


 
 


 Net interest income after provision for credit losses
 
 
 20,050
 
 
 16,772
 


 
 


 Non-interest Income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Service charges
 
 
 1,143
 
 
 1,277
 


 Wealth management
 
 
 785
 
 
 834
 


 Increase in cash surrender value of BOLI
 
 
 246
 
 
 250
 


 Gains on sale of investment securities, net
 
 
 38
 
 
 2,007
 


 Gains on sale of SBA loans
 
 
 281
 
 
 —
 


 Write-down of OREO
 
 
 (23
)
 
 —
 


 Other fees
 
 
 1,173
 
 
 1,062
 


 
 


 Total non-interest income
 
 
 3,643
 
 
 5,430
 


 
 


 Non-interest Expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Salaries and employee benefits
 
 
 8,776
 
 
 8,354
 


 Furniture and equipment
 
 
 1,267
 
 
 1,393
 


 Occupancy
 
 
 1,903
 
 
 1,717
 


 Professional and consulting
 
 
 1,130
 
 
 1,166
 


 Marketing
 
 
 635
 
 
 533
 


 Printing and supplies
 
 
 144
 
 
 158
 


 FDIC insurance
 
 
 562
 
 
 809
 


 FHLBP prepayment penalties
 
 
 —
 
 
 560
 


 PA shares tax
 
 
 516
 
 
 466
 


 Telephone and fax
 
 
 209
 
 
 231
 


 Other expenses
 
 
 1,583
 
 
 1,516
 


 
 


 Total non-interest expense
 
 
 16,725
 
 
 16,903
 


 
 


 Income before income taxes
 
 
 6,968
 
 
 5,299
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
 2,066
 
 
 1,629
 


 
 


 Net income
 
 
 $    4,902
 
 
 $    3,670
 


 
 


 Preferred stock dividends and accretion of discount
 
 
 779
 
 
 618
 


 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 
 $    4,123
 
 
 $    3,052
 


 
 


 Earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
 $  1.54
 
 
 $  1.16
 


 Diluted
 
 
 $  1.53
 
 
 $  1.16
 


 Cash dividends per common share
 
 
 $  0.12
 
 
 $  0.12
 


 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
 2,674,716
 
 
 2,635,549
 


 Diluted
 
 
 2,695,207
 
 
 2,637,174
 


 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
51




 










Table of Contents 
 
 DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND  SUBSIDIARIESConsolidated
Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income (Dollars in thousands)  


































 
 


 
 
Preferred
Stock
 
Common
Stock
 
Stock
Warrants
 
Treasury
Stock
 
Surplus
 
(Accumulated
Deficit)
Retained
Earnings
 
Accumulated
Other
Compre-
hensive
Loss
 
Total
 


 
 


 Balance at January 1, 2010
 
$
11,511
 
$
2,875
 
$
151
 
$
(4,727
)
$
35,179
 
$
(666
)
$
(1,447
)
$
42,876
 


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,670
 
 
—
 
 
3,670
 


 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized losses on investment securities, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(1081
)
 
(1081
)


 Accretion of discount on AFS to HTM reclassification
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
392
 
 
392
 


 Unrealized actuarial losses — pension, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(80
)
 
(80
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
2,901
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock discount accretion
 
 
30
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(30
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Stock options compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
17
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
17
 


 Repurchased restricted stock
 
 
—
 
 
(2
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(12
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(14
)


 Restricted stock compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
11
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
110
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
121
 


 Cash dividends — Common ($.12 per share)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(317
)
 
—
 
 
(317
)


 Cash dividends — CPP Preferred
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(588
)
 
—
 
 
(588
)


 Sale of treasury shares to 401(k) plan (30,049 shares)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
212
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
212
 


 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
11,541
 
 
2,884
 
 
151
 
 
(4,515
)
 
35,294
 
 
2,069
 
 
(2,216
)
 
45,208
 


 Comprehensive income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,902
 
 
—
 
 
4,902
 


 Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized gains on investment securities, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,263
 
 
1,263
 


 Accretion of discount on AFS to HTM reclassification
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
16
 
 
16
 


 Unrealized actuarial losses — pension, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(539
)
 
(539
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
5,642
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock discount accretion
 
 
209
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(209
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Stock options compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
27
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
27
 


 Repurchased restricted stock
 
 
—
 
 
(1
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(8
)


 Restricted stock compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
8
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
53
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
61
 


 SBLF Preferred stock issued
 
 
13,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
13,000
 


 Repurchase of CPP Preferred Stock
 
 
(11,750
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(11,750
)


 SBLF issuance cost
 
 
(45
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(45
)


 SBLF issuance costs accretion
 
 
7
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(7
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Repurchase of stock warrants
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(151
)
 
—
 
 
(307
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(458
)


 Cash dividends — Common ($.12 per share)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(321
)
 
—
 
 
(321
)


 Cash dividends — CPP Preferred
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(348
)
 
—
 
 
(348
)


 Cash dividends — SBLF Preferred
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(215
)
 
—
 
 
(215
)


 Sale of treasury shares to 401(k) plan (21,177 shares)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
216
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
216
 


 Sale of treasury shares to deferred compensation plan (4,714 shares)
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
47
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
47
 


 
 


 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 $
12,962
 
$
2,891
 
$
—
 
$
(4,252
)
$
35,060
 
$
5,871
 
$
(1,476
)
$
51,056
 


 
 




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
52




 










Table of Contents 
 
 DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows (Dollars in thousands)  
















 
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 $
4,902
 
 $
3,670
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation, amortization and accretion
 
 
 2,436
 
 
 3,374
 


 Provision for credit losses
 
 
 1,480
 
 
 2,216
 


 Unvested stock amortization
 
 
 80
 
 
 124
 


 Net gain on sale of securities
 
 
 (38
)
 
 (2,007
)


 Net loss on sale and write-downs of OREO and other repossessed property
 
 
 26
 
 
 37
 


 (Increase) decrease in accrued interest receivable
 
 
 (253
)
 
 420
 


 Decrease in other assets
 
 
 1,269
 
 
 725
 


 Earnings from investment in BOLI
 
 
 (246
)
 
 (250
)


 Decrease in accrued interest payable
 
 
 (83
)
 
 (216
)


 Deferred tax (benefit) expense
 
 
 (174
)
 
 440
 


 Proceeds from sales of SBA loans
 
 
 3,869
 
 
 —
 


 SBA loans originated for sale
 
 
 (3,588
)
 
 —
 


 Gain on sale of SBA loans
 
 
 (281
)
 
 —
 


 Decrease in other liabilities
 
 
 (157
)
 
 (488
)


 
 


 Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities
 
 
 9,242
 
 
 8,045
 


 
 


 Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Activity in available-for-sale securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sales
 
 
 27,823
 
 
 196,082
 


 Maturities, repayments and calls
 
 
 55,809
 
 
 52,149
 


 Purchases
 
 
 (68,520
)
 
 (236,587
)


 Activity in held-to-maturity securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Sales
 
 
 —
 
 
 29,855
 


 Maturities, repayments and calls
 
 
 5,935
 
 
 8,574
 


 Purchases
 
 
 (13,932
)
 
 (2,138
)


 Net decrease (increase) in restricted stock
 
 
 576
 
 
 (134
)


 Net increase in loans and leases
 
 
 (10,769
)
 
 (39,577
)


 Proceeds from sale of OREO and other repossessed property
 
 
 466
 
 
 1,308
 


 Purchase of property and equipment
 
 
 (496
)
 
 (535
)


 
 


 Net Cash (Used) Provided By Investing Activities
 
 
 (3,108
)
 
 8,997
 


 
 


 Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in deposits
 
 
 4,799
 
 
 (14,601
)


 Repayment of FHLBP advances
 
 
 (5,000
)
 
 (28,000
)


 Increase in short term repurchase agreements
 
 
 421
 
 
 6,820
 


 (Decrease) increase in other borrowings
 
 
 (23
)
 
 1,960
 


 Dividends paid
 
 
 (824
)
 
 (905
)


 Issuance of preferred stock
 
 
 12,955
 
 
 —
 


 Repayment of preferred stock and warrant
 
 
 (12,208
)
 
 —
 


 Sale of treasury stock, net
 
 
 263
 
 
 212
 


 
 


 Net Cash Provided (Used) By Financing Activities
 
 
 383
 
 
 (34,514
)


 
 


 Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
 
 6,517
 
 
 (17,472
)


 Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year
 
 
 26,360
 
 
 43,832
 


 
 


 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year
 
 $
32,877
 
 $
26,360
 


 
 


 Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid during the period for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest
 
 $
4,727
 
 $
7,278
 


 Income taxes
 
 
 1,959
 
 
 2,020
 


 Supplemental Disclosure of Non-cash Flow Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Transfers from loans and leases to real estate owned and other repossessed property
 
 
 75
 
 
 1,024
 


 Transfer securities from AFS to HTM, at fair value (amortized cost of $20,228)
 
 
 20,112
 
 
 —
 


 
 




 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.  
53




 










Table of Contents 
 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
 (1)    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
        DNB Financial Corporation (the "Corporation" or "DNB") through its wholly owned subsidiary, DNB First, National Association (the
"Bank"), formerly Downingtown National Bank, has been serving individuals and small to medium sized businesses of Chester County,
Pennsylvania since 1860. DNB Capital Trust I and II are special purpose Delaware business trusts, which are not consolidated (see additional discussion in Junior Subordinated
Debentures — Footnote 9). The Bank is a locally managed commercial bank providing personal and commercial loans and deposit products, in addition to investment and trust services
from thirteen community offices. The Bank encounters vigorous competition for market share from commercial banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. 
        The
consolidated financial statements of DNB and its subsidiary, the Bank, which together are managed as a single operating segment, are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles applicable to the banking industry. 
        In
preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the balance sheets, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Although our current estimates contemplate current conditions and how we expect them to change in the future, it is reasonably possible that in 2012, actual conditions could be worse than anticipated
in those estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Amounts subject to significant estimates are items such as the allowance for credit losses and
lending related commitments, the fair value of repossessed assets, pension and post-retirement obligations, the fair value of financial instruments and
other-than-temporary impairments. Among other effects, such changes could result in future impairments of investment securities, and establishment of allowances for credit
losses and lending related commitments as well as increased benefit plans' expenses. 
        Principles of Consolidation    The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of DNB and its wholly owned subsidiary, the Bank. All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated. 
        Cash and Due From Banks    For purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and due from
banks, and federal funds sold are considered to be cash equivalents. Generally, federal funds are sold for one-day periods. 
        Investment Securities    Investment securities are classified and accounted for as follows: 
        Held-To-Maturity ("HTM") includes debt securities that DNB has the positive intent and ability to hold to
maturity. Debt securities are reported at cost, adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. 
        Available-For-Sale ("AFS") includes debt and equity securities not classified as HTM securities. Securities
classified as AFS are securities that DNB intends to hold for an indefinite period of time, but not necessarily to maturity. Such securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized holding gains
and losses excluded from earnings and reported, net of tax (if applicable), as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses on the sale of AFS securities are computed on the
basis of specific identification of the adjusted cost of each security. Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts for all types of securities are computed using a method approximating a
level-yield basis. 
        Other Than Temporary Impairment Analysis Securities are evaluated on a quarterly basis, and more frequently when market conditions warrant
such an evaluation, to determine whether declines in their value are other-than-temporary. To determine whether a loss in value is other-than-temporary,
management utilizes criteria such as the reasons underlying the decline, the magnitude and duration of the decline, and whether or not management intends to sell or expects that it is more likely than
not that it will 
54



 
Table of Contents
be
required to sell the security prior to an anticipated recovery of the fair value. Once a decline in value for a debt security is determined to be other-than-temporary, the
other-than-temporary impairment is separated into (a) the amount of the total other-than-temporary impairment related to a decrease in cash flows
expected to be collected from the debt security (the credit loss) and (b) the amount of the total other-than-temporary impairment related to all other factors. The
amount of the total impairment related to credit losses should be included in earnings. The amount of the total impairment related to all other factors should be included in other comprehensive
income. DNB recorded no impairment charges in 2011 or 2010. 
        Restricted Stock includes investments in Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLBP), Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) and Atlantic Central
Bankers Bank (ACBB) stock which are carried at cost and are redeemable at par with certain restrictions. Investments in these stocks are necessary to participate in FHLB, FRB and ACBB programs. On
December 23, 2008, the FHLBP announced that it would indefinitely suspend dividend payments and repurchases of excess capital stock, due to low short-term interest rates, increased
costs of maintaining liquidity and constrained access to debt markets at attractive rates. Management's evaluation and determination of whether these investments are impaired is based on their
assessment of the ultimate recoverability of their cost rather than by recognizing temporary declines in value. The determination of whether a decline affects the ultimate recoverability of an
investment's cost is influenced by criteria such as (1) the significance of the decline in net assets of the FHLBP as compared to the capital stock amount for the FHLBP and the length of time
the decline has persisted, (2) commitments by the FHLBP to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation to the operating performance of the FHLBP, and
(3) the impact of legislative and regulatory changes on institutions and, accordingly, on the customer base of the FHLBP. Subsequent to the December 23, 2008 announcement, the FHLBP
repurchased $577,000 and $164,000 of excess capital stock during 2011 and 2010, respectively. The
Board of Directors of the FHLBP declared a dividend equal to an annual yield of 0.10% on February 22, 2012. The $648 dividend received by DNB on February 23, 2012 was calculated on our
average balance of FHLBP stock held from October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011. On February 23, 2012, the FHLBP repurchased 1,266 shares of excess capital stock for $126,600. The
amount of excess capital stock repurchased by the FHLBP from any member was the lesser of five percent of the member's total capital stock outstanding or its excess capital stock outstanding. 
        Loans and Leases    Loans receivable that management has the intent and ability to hold for the
foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff are stated at their outstanding unpaid principal balances, net of an allowance for credit losses and any deferred fees or costs. Interest income is
accrued on the unpaid principal balance. Loan origination fees, net of certain direct origination costs, are deferred and recognized as an adjustment of the yield (interest income) of the related
loans. DNB is generally amortizing these amounts over the contractual life of the loan. Premiums and discounts on purchased loans are amortized as adjustments to interest income using the effective
yield method. 
        The
loans receivable portfolio is segmented into commercial and consumer loans. Commercial loans consist of the following classes: commercial mortgages, commercial term loans, and
commercial leases. Consumer loans consist of the following classes: residential mortgages and consumer loans. 
        For
all classes of loans receivable, the accrual of interest is discontinued when the contractual payment of principal or interest has become 90 days past due or management has
serious doubts about further collectability of principal or interest, even though the loan is currently performing. A loan may remain on accrual status if it is in the process of collection and is
either guaranteed or well secured. When a loan or lease is placed on non-accrual, interest accruals cease and uncollected accrued interest is reversed and charged against current income.
Interest received on nonaccrual loans including impaired loans generally is either applied against principal or reported as interest income, according to management's judgment as to the collectability
of principal. Generally, loans are restored to accrual status when the obligation is brought current, has performed in accordance with the contractual terms for a reasonable period of time (generally
six months) and the ultimate collectability of the total contractual principal and 
55



 
Table of Contents
interest
is no longer in doubt. The past due status of all classes of loans receivable is determined based on contractual due dates for loan payments. 
        Deferred Loan Fees and Costs    Loan origination and commitment fees and related direct-loan
origination costs of completed loans are deferred and accreted to income as a yield adjustment over the life of the loan using the level-yield method. The accretion to income is discontinued when a
loan is placed on non-accrual status. When a loan is paid off, any
unamortized net deferred fee balance is credited to income. When a loan is sold, any unamortized net deferred fee balance is considered in the calculation of gain or loss. 
        Allowance for Credit Losses    The allowance for credit losses consists of the allowance for loan losses
and represents management's estimate of losses inherent in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date and is recorded as a reduction to loans. The allowance for credit losses is increased by the
provision for loan losses, and decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries. Loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan losses, and subsequent recoveries,
if any, are credited to the allowance. All, or part, of the principal balance of loans receivable are charged off to the allowance as soon as it is determined that the repayment of all, or part, of
the principal balance is highly unlikely. Non-residential consumer loans are generally charged off no later than 120 days past due on a contractual basis, earlier in the event of
Bankruptcy, or if there is an amount deemed uncollectible. No portion of the allowance for loan losses is restricted to any individual loan or groups of loans, and the entire allowance is available to
absorb any and all loan losses. 
        The
allowance for credit losses is maintained at a level considered adequate to provide for losses that can be reasonably anticipated. Management performs a quarterly evaluation of the
adequacy of the allowance. The allowance is based on DNB's past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay, the
estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires
material estimates that may be susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. 
        The
allowance consists of specific, general and unallocated components. The specific component relates to loans that are classified as impaired. For loans that are classified as
impaired, an allowance is established when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value or observable market price) of the impaired loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan. The general
component covers pools of loans by loan class including commercial loans not considered impaired, as well as smaller balance homogeneous loans, such as residential real estate, home equity and other
consumer loans. These pools of loans are evaluated for loss exposure, based upon historical loss rates for each of these categories of loans, adjusted for qualitative factors. These qualitative risk
factors include: 

1.Lending
policies and procedures, including underwriting standards and collection, charge-off, and recovery practices
2.National,
regional, and local economic and business conditions as well as the condition of various market segments, including the value of underlying
collateral for collateral dependent loans
3.Nature
and volume of the portfolio and terms of loans
4.Experience,
ability, and depth of lending management and staff
5.Volume
and severity of past due, classified and nonaccrual loans as well as and other loan modifications
6.Quality
of DNB's loan review system, and the degree of oversight by DNB's Board of Directors
7.Existence
and effect of any concentrations of credit and changes in the level of such concentrations
8.Effect
of external factors, such as competition and legal and regulatory requirements
9.Changes
in the value of underlying collateral for collateral-dependent loans 
56



 
Table of Contents
        Each
factor is assigned a value to reflect improving, stable or declining conditions based on management's best judgment using relevant information available at the time of the
evaluation. Adjustments to the factors are supported through documentation of changes in conditions in a narrative accompanying the allowance for credit loss calculation. 
        Commercial
real estate lending entails significant additional risks as compared with single-family residential property lending. Such loans typically involve large loan balances to
single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. The payment experience on such loans is typically dependent on the successful operation of the real estate project. The success of such projects is
sensitive to changes in supply and demand conditions in the market for commercial real estate as well as economic conditions generally. 
        Construction
lending is generally considered to involve a higher level of risk as compared to single-family residential lending, due to the concentration of principal in a limited number
of loans and borrowers and the effects of general economic conditions on developers and builders. Moreover, a construction loan can involve additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in
estimating both a property's value at completion of the project and the estimated cost (including interest) of the project. The nature of these loans is such that they are generally more difficult to
evaluate and monitor. DNB has attempted to minimize the foregoing risks by, among other things, limiting the extent of its construction lending and has adopted underwriting guidelines which impose
stringent loan-to-value, debt service and other requirements for loans which are believed to involve higher elements of credit risk, by limiting the geographic area in which
DNB will do business and by working with builders with whom it has established relationships. 
        Consumer
loans generally have shorter terms and higher interest rates than mortgage loans but generally involve more credit risk than mortgage loans because of the type and nature of the
collateral and, in certain cases, the absence of collateral. In addition, consumer lending collections are dependent on the borrower's continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be
adversely effected by job loss, divorce, illness and personal bankruptcy. In most cases, any repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan will not provide an adequate source of repayment of
the outstanding loan balance because of improper repair and maintenance of the underlying security. The remaining deficiency often does not warrant further substantial collection efforts against the
borrower. DNB believes that the generally higher yields earned on consumer loans compensate for the increased credit risk associated with such loans and that consumer loans are important to its
efforts to provide a full range of services to its customers. 
        An
unallocated component is maintained to cover uncertainties that could affect management's estimate of probable losses. The unallocated component of the allowance reflects the margin
of imprecision inherent in the underlying assumptions used in the methodologies for estimating specific and general losses in the portfolio. 
        A
loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that DNB will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value and the probability of collecting
scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the
significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower,
including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower's prior payment record and the amount of the shortfall in relation
to the principal and interest owed. Impairment is measured on a loan by loan basis for commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans and commercial construction loans by either the
present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. 
        An
allowance for credit losses is established for an impaired loan if its carrying value exceeds its estimated fair value. The estimated fair values of substantially all of DNB's
impaired loans are measured based on the estimated fair value of the loan's collateral. 
57



 
Table of Contents
        For
commercial loans secured by real estate, estimated fair values are determined primarily through third-party appraisals. When a real estate secured loan becomes impaired, a decision
is made regarding whether an updated certified appraisal of the real estate is necessary. This decision is based on various considerations, including the age of the most recent appraisal, the
loan-to-value ratio based on the original appraisal and the condition of the property. Appraised values are discounted to arrive at the estimated selling price of the
collateral, which is considered to be the estimated fair value. The discounts also include estimated costs to sell the property. 
        For
commercial and industrial loans secured by non-real estate collateral, such as accounts receivable, inventory and equipment, estimated fair values are determined based on
the borrower's financial statements, inventory reports, accounts receivable agings or equipment appraisals or invoices. Indications of value from these sources are generally discounted based on the
age of the financial information or the quality of the assets. 
        Large
groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans are collectively evaluated for impairment. Accordingly, DNB does not separately identify individual residential mortgage loans, with the
exception of certain purchased residential loans, home equity loans and other consumer loans for impairment disclosures, unless such loans are the subject of a troubled debt restructuring agreement. 
        Loans
whose terms are modified are classified as troubled debt restructurings if DNB grants such borrowers concessions and it is deemed that those borrowers are experiencing financial
difficulty. Concessions granted under a troubled debt restructuring generally involve a temporary reduction in interest rate or an extension of a loan's stated maturity date. Non-accrual
troubled debt restructurings are restored to accrual status if principal and interest payments, under the modified terms, are current for six consecutive months after modification. Loans classified as
troubled debt restructurings are designated as impaired. 
        The
allowance calculation methodology includes further segregation of loan classes into risk rating categories. The borrower's overall financial condition, repayment sources, guarantors
and value of collateral, if appropriate, are evaluated annually for commercial loans or when credit deficiencies arise, such as delinquent loan payments, for commercial and consumer loans. Credit
quality risk ratings include regulatory classifications of special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss. Loans criticized special mention have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close
attention. If uncorrected, the potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects. Loans classified substandard have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that
jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They include loans that are inadequately protected by the current sound net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Loans
classified doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in loans classified substandard with the added characteristic that collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of current conditions and facts,
is highly improbable. Loans classified as a loss are considered uncollectible and are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Loans not classified are rated pass. 
        In
addition, Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review DNB's allowance for credit losses and may require DNB to recognize
additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination, which may not be currently available to management. Based on management's
comprehensive analysis of the loan portfolio, management believes the current level of the allowance for credit losses is appropriate at December 31, 2011. 
        Other Real Estate Owned & Other Repossessed Property    Other real estate owned ("OREO") and
other repossessed property consists of properties acquired as a result of, or in-lieu-of, foreclosure as well as other repossessed assets. Properties classified as OREO are
initially recorded at fair value less cost to sell at the date of foreclosure, establishing a new cost basis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management and the
assets are carried at the lower of carrying value or fair value, less estimated costs to sell. Costs relating to the development or improvement of the properties are capitalized 
58



 
Table of Contents
and
costs relating to holding the properties are charged to expense. DNB had OREO and other repossessed property totaling $4.0 million at December 31, 2011 and $4.3 million at
December 31, 2010. 
        Office Properties and Equipment    Office properties and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is
computed using the straight-line method over the expected useful lives of the assets. The costs of maintenance and repairs are expensed as they are incurred; renewals and betterments are
capitalized. All long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment, based on the fair value of the asset. In addition, long-lived assets to be disposed of are generally reported at
the
lower of carrying amount or fair value, less cost to sell. Gains or losses on disposition of premises and equipment are reflected in operations. 
        Income Taxes    DNB accounts for income taxes in accordance with the income tax accounting guidance set
forth in FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes. 
        The
income tax accounting guidance results in two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or refunded for the current
period by applying the provisions of the enacted tax law to the taxable income or excess of deductions over revenues. DNB determines deferred income taxes using the liability (or balance sheet)
method. Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and enacted changes in tax
rates and laws are recognized in the period in which they occur. 
        DNB
recognizes interest and penalties on income taxes as a component of income tax expense. DNB is no longer subject to examinations by taxing authorities for the years before
January 1, 2008. 
        Pension Plan    The Bank maintains a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially
all employees over the age of 21 with one year of service. Plan benefits are based on years of service and the employee's monthly average compensation for the highest five consecutive years of their
last ten years of service (see Note 14 — Benefit Plans). 
        Stock Based Compensation    Stock compensation accounting guidance (FASB ASC Topic 718,
Compensation — Stock Compensation) requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial statements. That cost will be measured
based on the grant date fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. The stock compensation accounting guidance covers a wide range of share-based compensation arrangements including
stock options, restricted share plans, performance-based awards, share appreciation rights, and employee share purchase plans. 
        The
stock compensation accounting guidance requires that compensation cost for all stock awards be calculated and recognized over the employees' service period, generally defined as the
vesting period. For awards with graded-vesting, compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. A Black Sholes model is
used to estimate the fair value of stock options, while the market price of DNB's common stock at the date of grant is used for restricted stock awards. 
        Preferred Stock    Preferred stock ranks senior to common stock with respect to dividends and has
preference in the event of liquidation. 
        Fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series 2008A — The shares of fixed rate cumulative
perpetual preferred stock, Series 2008A ("Series 2008A Preferred Stock") issued to the United States Treasury ("U.S. Treasury") under the TARP Capital Purchase Program ("CPP") of the
Emergency Economics Stabilization Act of 2008 and the warrants issued under the CPP were accounted for as permanent equity on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. The proceeds received
were allocated between the Series 2008A Preferred Stock and the warrants based upon their relative fair values as of the date of issuance which resulted in the recording of a discount of the
Series 2008A Preferred Stock upon issuance that reflects the value allocated to the warrants. The discount was accreted by a charge to retained earnings on a straight-line basis
over the expected life of the preferred stock of five years and then in full when the CPP preferred stock was redeemed in 2011. DNB paid cumulative dividends at a rate of five percent per annum while
these shares were outstanding. Dividends were payable quarterly in arrears and accrued as earned over the period the Series 2008A Preferred Stock was outstanding. Preferred dividends paid
(declared and accrued) and the related accretion was deducted from net income for computing income available to common stockholders and earnings per share computations. 
59




 










Table of Contents 
        Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A — The shares of
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A ("Series 2011A Preferred Stock") issued to the United States Treasury ("U.S. Treasury") under the Small Business
Lending Fund program ("SBLF") are accounted for as permanent equity on DNB's Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition. Proceeds received from the issuance of the SBLF preferred stock were used
to redeem the CPP preferred stock. 
        The
Series 2011A Preferred Stock is entitled to receive non-cumulative dividends payable quarterly. The dividend rate, which is calculated on the aggregate Liquidation
Amount, was initially set at 3.874% per annum based upon the current level of "Qualified Small Business Lending", or "QSBL" (as defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement) by DNB's
wholly owned subsidiary, DNB First, National Association (the "Bank"). The dividend rate for future dividend periods will be set based upon the "Percentage Change in Qualified Lending" (as defined in
the Securities Purchase Agreement) between each dividend period and the "Baseline" QSBL level. Such dividend rate may vary from 1% per annum to 5% per annum for the second through tenth dividend
periods depending on the volume of QSBL the Bank originates in future periods, and will be fixed at a rate between 1% per annum to 7% per annum and remain unchanged up to four and one-half
years following the
funding date (the eleventh through the first half of the nineteenth dividend periods). If the Series 2011A Preferred Stock remains outstanding for more than
four-and-one-half years, the dividend rate will be fixed at 9%. Prior to that time, in general, the dividend rate decreases as the level of the Bank's QSBL
increases. At December 31, 2011 the dividend rate was 4.14%. Such dividends are not cumulative, but DNB may only declare and pay dividends on its common stock (or any other equity securities
junior to the Series 2011A Preferred Stock) if it has declared and paid dividends for the current dividend period on the Series 2011A Preferred Stock, and will be subject to other
restrictions on its ability to repurchase or redeem common stock and other securities. In addition, if (i) DNB has not timely declared and paid dividends on the Series 2011A Preferred
Stock for six dividend periods or more, whether or not consecutive, and (ii) shares of Series 2011A Preferred Stock with an aggregate liquidation preference of at least $13,000,000 are
still outstanding, the Treasury (or any successor holder of Series 2011A Preferred Stock) may designate two additional directors to be elected to DNB's Board of Directors. Preferred dividends
paid (declared and accrued) is deducted from net income for computing income available to common stockholders and earnings per share computations. 
        Earnings Per Share (EPS)    Basic EPS is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur from unvested stock awards and the exercise of stock options and warrants computed using the treasury stock
method. Stock options and awards for which the exercise price exceeds the average market price over the period have an anti-dilutive effect on EPS and, accordingly, are excluded from the
EPS calculation. Treasury shares are not deemed outstanding for earnings per share calculations. 
        Comprehensive Income    Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income.
Other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains on securities available for sale, accretion of discount on securities transferred from available-for-sale to
held-to-maturity and unrealized losses related to factors other than credit on debt securities, and changes in the funded status of the pension plan which are also recognized
as separate components of stockholders' equity. 
        Treasury Stock    Common stock shares repurchased are recorded as treasury stock at cost. 
        Trust Assets    Assets held by DNB First Wealth Management in fiduciary or agency capacities are not
included in the consolidated financial statements since such items are not assets of DNB. Operating income and expenses of DNB First Wealth Management are included in the consolidated statements of
operations and are recorded on an accrual basis. 
        Subsequent Events    Management has evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to
December 31, 2011 for items that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these Consolidated 
60



 
Table of Contents
Financial
Statements. The evaluation was conducted through the date these financial statements were issued. 
        Accounting Developments Affecting DNB    
        In
April 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-02 for guidance on Receivables (Topic 310) regarding a creditor's determination of whether a
restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring. The amendments in this update apply to all creditors, both public and nonpublic, that restructure certain receivables. In evaluating whether a
restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring, a creditor must separately conclude that both of the following exist: the restructuring constitutes a concession and the debtor is experiencing
financial difficulties. The amendments clarify the guidance on a creditor's evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and on a creditor's evaluation of whether a debtor is experiencing
financial difficulties. For public entities, the amendments in this update are effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011, and should be applied
retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption. As a result of applying these amendments, an entity may identify receivables that are newly considered impaired. For purposes of
measuring impairment of those receivables, an entity should apply the amendments prospectively for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The adoption did not
have a material impact on DNB's consolidated financial statements. 
        In
December, 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
in Accounting Standards Update 2011-05. In response to stakeholder concerns regarding the operational ramifications of the presentation of these reclassifications for current and previous
years, the FASB has deferred the implementation date of this provision to allow time for further consideration. The requirement in ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, for
the presentation of a combined statement of comprehensive income or separate, but consecutive, statements of net income and other comprehensive income is still effective for fiscal years and interim
periods beginning after December 15, 2011 for public companies, and fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011 for nonpublic companies. The adoption of ASU
No. 2011-05 will not have a material impact on DNB's consolidated financial statements. 
61



 
Table of Contents
 (2) INVESTMENT SECURITIES  
        The amortized cost and estimated fair values of investment securities, as of the dates indicated, are summarized as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Unrealized
Gains
 
Unrealized
Losses
 
Estimated
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Held To Maturity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Government Sponsored Entities (GSE) mortgage-backed securities
 
 $
14,363
 
 $
493
 
 $
—
 
 $
14,856
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 1,548
 
 
 18
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,566
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
 8,139
 
 
 163
 
 
 —
 
 
 8,302
 


 State and Municipal tax-exempt
 
 
 12,377
 
 
 580
 
 
 —
 
 
 12,957
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
36,427
 
 $
1,254
 
 $
—
 
 $
37,681
 


 
 


 Available For Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
 $
43,698
 
 $
194
 
 $
(1
)
 $
43,891
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 24,792
 
 
 533
 
 
 (12
)
 
 25,313
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
 6,148
 
 
 24
 
 
 (20
)
 
 6,152
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 27,141
 
 
 84
 
 
 (878
)
 
 26,347
 


 Asset-backed securities
 
 
 5,737
 
 
 78
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,815
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 27
 
 
 —
 
 
 (15
)
 
 12
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
107,543
 
 $
913
 
 $
(926
)
 $
107,530
 


 
 




 






















 
 
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Unrealized
Gains
 
Unrealized
Losses
 
Estimated
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Held To Maturity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
$
7,085
 
$
291
 
$
—
 
$
7,376
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
1,346
 
 
14
 
 
(13
)
 
1,347
 


 
 


 Total
 
$
8,431
 
$
305
 
$
(13
)
$
8,723
 


 
 


 Available For Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
$
45,128
 
$
32
 
$
(916
)
$
44,244
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
64,463
 
 
127
 
 
(592
)
 
63,998
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
17,155
 
 
14
 
 
(551
)
 
16,618
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
17,432
 
 
159
 
 
(303
)
 
17,288
 


 Equity securities
 
 
27
 
 
—
 
 
(14
)
 
13
 


 
 


 Total
 
$
144,205
 
$
332
 
$
(2,376
)
$
142,161
 


 
 




62




 










Table of Contents 
        Included in unrealized losses are market losses on securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for twelve months or more and those
securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than twelve months. The table below details the aggregate unrealized losses and aggregate fair value of the underlying
securities whose fair values are below their amortized cost at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 




























 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Total
Fair Value
 
Total
Unrealized
Loss
 
Fair value
Impaired
Less Than
12 Months
 
Unrealized
Loss
Less Than
12 Months
 
Fair value
Impaired
More Than
12 Months
 
Unrealized
Loss
More Than
12 Months
 


 
 


 Available For Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
 $
1,522
 
 $
(1
)
 $
1,522
 
 $
(1
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 4,428
 
 
 (12
)
 
 4,428
 
 
 (12
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
 4,554
 
 
 (20
)
 
 4,554
 
 
 (20
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 18,023
 
 
 (878
)
 
 14,232
 
 
 (477
)
 
 3,791
 
 
 (401
)


 Equity securities
 
 
 12
 
 
 (15
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 12
 
 
 (15
)


 
 


 Total
 
 $
28,539
 
 $
(926
)
 $
24,736
 
 $
(510
)
 $
3,803
 
 $
(416
)


 
 




 




























 
 
December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Total
Fair Value
 
Total
Unrealized
Loss
 
Fair value
Impaired
Less Than
12 Months
 
Unrealized
Loss
Less Than
12 Months
 
Fair value
Impaired
More Than
12 Months
 
Unrealized
Loss
More Than
12 Months
 


 
 


 Held To Maturity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 $
789
 
 $
(13
)
 $
789
 
 $
(13
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
789
 
 $
(13
)
 $
789
 
 $
(13
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 
 


 Available For Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 $
9,845
 
 $
(303
)
 $
9,845
 
 $
(303
)
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
 
 28,972
 
 
 (916
)
 
 28,972
 
 
 (916
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
 12,539
 
 
 (551
)
 
 12,539
 
 
 (551
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 40,013
 
 
 (592
)
 
 40,013
 
 
 (592
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 13
 
 
 (14
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 13
 
 
 (14
)


 
 


 Total
 
 $
91,382
 
 $
(2,376
)
 $
91,369
 
 $
(2,362
)
 $
13
 
 $
(14
)


 
 




        As of December 31, 2011, there were 2 mortgage backed securities, 18 corporate bonds, 1 agency note, 2 collateralized mortgage obligations
and 6 equity securities which were in an unrealized loss position. Seventeen of these 29 securities did not meet the criteria of having market value loss greater than 10% of book value or had been
impaired for more than 12 months. DNB does not intend to sell these securities and management of DNB does not expect to be required to sell any of these securities prior to a recovery of its
cost basis. Management does not believe any individual unrealized loss as of December 31, 2011 represents an other-than-temporary impairment. There were 5 corporate
bonds and 6 equity securities that were impaired for more than 12 months and one corporate bond that had a market value loss of greater than 10% of book value. DNB reviews its investment
portfolio on a quarterly basis judging each investment for other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI). The OTTI analysis focuses on duration and amount a security is below book. As
of December 31, 2011, the following securities were reviewed: 
        Corporates The unrealized loss on six investments in the Corporate Bond portfolio were caused by interest rate increases and increased
spreads in this sector. Some of the bonds have had downgrades since they were purchased. The book value of the six securities is $5.7 million and the unrealized loss is $608,000. Three of the
bonds have been impaired for more than twelve months and had a loss less than 10% of the book value. Two of the bonds have been impaired for more than twelve months and had a loss greater than 10% of
the book value. One of the bonds had a loss greater than 10% of the book value and was impaired 
63



 
Table of Contents
for
less than twelve months. The contractual terms of those investments do not permit the issuer to settle these securities at a price less than the amortized cost basis of the investments. Based on
this analysis and an evaluation of DNB's ability and intent to hold these investments for a reasonable period of time sufficient for each security to increase to DNB's cost, DNB does not intend to
sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that DNB will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their cost, DNB does not consider these investments to be
other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011. 
        Equity securities.    DNB's investment in six marketable equity securities consist primarily of investments in common stock of
community banks in Pennsylvania. The unrealized losses on the six investments in the Equity securities portfolio were all impaired for more than twelve months. The severity and duration of the
impairment are driven by higher collateral losses, wider credit spreads, and changes in interest rates within the financial services sector. DNB evaluated the prospects of all issuers in relation to
the severity and duration of the impairment. Based on this analysis and an evaluation of DNB's ability and intent to hold these investments for a reasonable period of time sufficient for each security
to increase to DNB's cost, DNB does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than not that DNB will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their cost, DNB does
not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011. 
        The
amortized cost and estimated fair value of investment securities as of December 31, 2011, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Actual maturities may differ from
contractual maturities because certain securities may be called or prepaid without penalties. 






















 
 
Held to Maturity
 
Available for Sale
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Estimated
Fair Value
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Estimated
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Due in one year or less
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
513
 
 $
514
 


 Due after one year through five years
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 57,900
 
 
 57,529
 


 Due after five years through ten years
 
 
 4,697
 
 
 4,918
 
 
 17,441
 
 
 17,369
 


 Due after ten years
 
 
 31,730
 
 
 32,763
 
 
 31,662
 
 
 32,106
 


 No stated maturity
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 27
 
 
 12
 


 
 


 Total investment securities
 
 $
36,427
 
 $
37,681
 
 $
107,543
 
 $
107,530
 


 
 




        During
the quarter ended June 30, 2010, DNB sold its entire municipal securities portfolio, which had a book value of approximately $26.9 million for a net loss of $64,000.
Management sold the municipal securities out of the HTM portfolio due to media and headline risk related to municipal budget shortfalls, which management believes could impair the value of the bonds.
In particular, management believes that reported problems with budgets, in California and other states across the country that are experiencing budget shortfalls, could trickle down to individual
municipalities. In addition, numerous municipalities are struggling financially as promised pensions benefits for public sector employees represent a massive overhang that threatens the financial
future of many cities and states. This was a change in circumstances that was unusual and non-recurring, and could not have been reasonably anticipated when the bonds were placed in the
HTM Portfolio. In addition to the municipal securities, management sold mortgaged backed securities with a book value of $3.0 million out of the HTM portfolio for a net gain of $39,000. Such
sales are allowed under ASC 320 guidelines, as more than 85% of the principal outstanding at acquisition had been paid down, due to prepayments and normal scheduled payments. During 2011, DNB
purchased municipal securities which had an amortized cost of $12.4 million at December 31, 2011. All of these municipal securities were issued by school districts within the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. They are backed by the full faith, credit and taxing power of the issuing school district. All have strong underlying credit ratings and $11.2 million of these
securities are insured by a highly rated insurance company. In addition to these guarantees, 100% of these securities are guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania through Pennsylvania's State
Aid Intercept Program. 
64



 
Table of Contents
        In
June 2011, DNB reclassified 3 mortgage backed securities and 2 collateralized mortgage obligations with book values (net carrying amount) of $12.5 million and
$7.7 million, respectively, from available-for-sale (AFS) to held-to-maturity (HTM). The fair value of the 3 mortgage backed securities and 2
collateralized mortgage obligations was $12.4 million and $7.7 million, respectively. The $116,000 difference between their book value and their fair value will be amortized as an
adjustment to the carrying value of the investment securities over the remaining lives. 
        DNB
sold $27.8 million and $196.1 million securities from the AFS portfolio during 2011 and 2010, respectively. DNB also sold $0 and $29.9 million securities from
the HTM portfolio during 2011 and 2010, respectively. The sales from HTM in 2010 are discussed in the paragraph above. Gains and losses resulting from investment sales, redemptions or calls were as
follows: 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Gross realized gains-AFS
 
 $
294
 
 $
2,246
 


 Gross realized gains-HTM
 
 
 —
 
 
 178
 


 Gross realized losses-AFS
 
 
 (256
)
 
 (214
)


 Gross realized losses-HTM
 
 
 —
 
 
 (203
)


 
 


 Net realized gain
 
 $
38
 
 $
2,007
 


 
 




        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, investment securities with a carrying value of approximately $96 million and $105 million, respectively, were pledged to secure public
funds, repurchase agreements, FHLBP advances and for other purposes as required by law. See Footnote 7 regarding the use of certain securities as collateral. 
 (3)    LOANS AND LEASES  
















 
 
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 $
26,461
 
 $
30,929
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
 232,297
 
 
 218,099
 


 Commercial
 
 
 101,120
 
 
 97,544
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 191
 
 
 898
 


 Consumer
 
 
 43,615
 
 
 48,701
 


 
 


 Total loans and leases
 
 $
403,684
 
 $
396,171
 


 Less allowance for credit losses
 
 
 (6,164
)
 
 (5,884
)


 
 


 Net loans and leases
 
 $
397,520
 
 $
390,287
 


 
 




        DNB
has a significant concentration of residential and commercial mortgage loans collateralized by first mortgage liens on properties located in Chester County. DNB did not have any
concentration of loans to borrowers engaged in similar activities that exceed 10% of total loans at December 31, 2011, except for loans of approximately $86.2 million relating to
commercial real estate buildings. See Footnote 7 regarding the use of certain loans as collateral. 
65




 










Table of Contents 
 (4)    ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  
        Changes in the allowance for credit losses, for the years indicated, are as follows: 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Beginning balance
 
 $
5,884
 
 $
5,477
 


 Provision
 
 
 1,480
 
 
 2,216
 


 Loans charged off
 
 
 (1,112
)
 
 (1,307
)


 Leases charged off
 
 
 (200
)
 
 (548
)


 Recoveries
 
 
 112
 
 
 46
 


 
 


 Net charge-offs
 
 
 (1,200
)
 
 (1,809
)


 
 


 Ending balance
 
 $
6,164
 
 $
5,884
 


 
 


 Reserve for unfunded loan commitments
 
 $
99
 
 $
150
 


 
 




        The
performance and credit quality of the loan portfolio is also monitored by analyzing the age of the loans receivable as determined by the length of time a recorded payment is past
due. The following tables present the classes of the loan portfolio summarized by the past due status as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010: 
 Age Analysis of Past Due Loans Receivables  































 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
30-59
Days Past
Due
 
60-89
Days Past
Due
 
Greater
than
90 Days
 
Total
Past
Due
 
Current
 
Total
Loans
Receivables
 
Loans
Receivable
> 90
Days and
Accruing
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
$
692
 
$
—
 
$
1,873
 
$
2,565
 
$
23,896
 
$
26,461
 
$
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
257
 
 
—
 
 
2,324
 
 
2,581
 
 
229,716
 
 
232,297
 
 
210
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
—
 
 
54
 
 
200
 
 
254
 
 
76,048
 
 
76,302
 
 
—
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
312
 
 
312
 
 
24,506
 
 
24,818
 
 
—
 


 Lease financing
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
61
 
 
61
 
 
130
 
 
191
 
 
—
 


 Consumer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home equity
 
 
175
 
 
—
 
 
60
 
 
235
 
 
35,807
 
 
36,042
 
 
—
 


 Other
 
 
15
 
 
—
 
 
21
 
 
36
 
 
7,537
 
 
7,573
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
1,139
 
$
54
 
$
4,851
 
$
6,044
 
$
397,640
 
$
403,684
 
$
210
 


 
 




66



 
Table of Contents
































 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
30-59
Days Past
Due
 
60-89
Days Past
Due
 
Greater
than
90 Days
 
Total
Past
Due
 
Current
 
Total
Loans
Receivables
 
Loans
Receivable
> 90
Days and
Accruing
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
$
77
 
$
110
 
$
2,334
 
$
2,521
 
$
28,408
 
$
30,929
 
$
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
175
 
 
—
 
 
834
 
 
1,009
 
 
217,090
 
 
218,099
 
 
—
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
73
 
 
182
 
 
360
 
 
615
 
 
69,965
 
 
70,580
 
 
—
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
3,180
 
 
3,180
 
 
23,784
 
 
26,964
 
 
—
 


 Lease financing
 
 
41
 
 
—
 
 
273
 
 
314
 
 
584
 
 
898
 
 
—
 


 Consumer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home equity
 
 
33
 
 
—
 
 
58
 
 
91
 
 
40,306
 
 
40,397
 
 
—
 


 Other
 
 
71
 
 
—
 
 
2
 
 
73
 
 
8,231
 
 
8,304
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
470
 
$
292
 
$
7,041
 
$
7,803
 
$
388,368
 
$
396,171
 
$
—
 


 
 




        The
following table sets forth those assets that are: (i) placed on non-accrual status, (ii) contractually delinquent by 90 days or more and still
accruing, (iii) troubled debt restructurings other than those included in items (i) and (ii), and (iv) OREO as a result of foreclosure or voluntary transfer to DNB as well as
other repossessed assets. 
 Non-Performing Assets  
















 
 
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Non-accrual loans:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 $
1,873
 
 $
2,334
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
 2,114
 
 
 834
 


 Commercial
 
 
 3,233
 
 
 3,722
 


 Lease financing
 
 
 61
 
 
 273
 


 Consumer
 
 
 151
 
 
 60
 


 
 


 Total non-accrual loans
 
 
 7,432
 
 
 7,223
 


 Loans 90 days past due and still accruing (*)
 
 
 210
 
 
 —
 


 Troubled debt restructurings
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Total non-performing loans
 
 
 7,642
 
 
 7,223
 


 Other real estate owned & other repossessed property
 
 
 3,974
 
 
 4,324
 


 
 


 Total non-performing assets
 
 $
11,616
 
 $
11,547
 


 
 




67



 
Table of Contents
        The
following tables summarize information in regards to impaired loans by loan portfolio class as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and for the years then ended. 
 Impaired Loans  

























 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Recorded
Investment
 
Unpaid
Principal
Balance
 
Related
Allowance
 
Average
Recorded
Investment
 
Interest
Income
Recognized
 


 
 


 With no related allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
$
2,014
 
$
2,413
 
$
—
 
$
1,095
 
$
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
821
 
 
58
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
202
 
 
566
 
 
—
 
 
206
 
 
1
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
312
 
 
634
 
 
—
 
 
339
 
 
—
 


 Lease financing
 
 
61
 
 
74
 
 
—
 
 
123
 
 
—
 


 Consumer
 
 
151
 
 
152
 
 
—
 
 
79
 
 
—
 


 With allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
959
 
 
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
2,114
 
 
2,116
 
 
826
 
 
444
 
 
—
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
450
 
 
—
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
2,720
 
 
2,833
 
 
359
 
 
2,813
 
 
—
 


 Lease financing
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
27
 
 
—
 


 Consumer
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Total:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 
2,014
 
 
2,413
 
 
—
 
 
2,054
 
 
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
2,114
 
 
2,116
 
 
826
 
 
1,265
 
 
58
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
202
 
 
566
 
 
—
 
 
656
 
 
1
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
3,032
 
 
3,467
 
 
359
 
 
3,152
 
 
—
 


 Lease financing
 
 
61
 
 
74
 
 
—
 
 
150
 
 
—
 


 Consumer
 
 
151
 
 
152
 
 
—
 
 
79
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
7,574
 
$
8,788
 
$
1,185
 
$
7,356
 
$
59
 


 
 




68



 
Table of Contents


























 
 
December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Recorded
Investment
 
Unpaid
Principal
Balance
 
Related
Allowance
 
Average
Recorded
Investment
 
Interest
Income
Recognized
 


 
 


 With no related allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
$
638
 
$
780
 
$
—
 
$
1,092
 
$
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
782
 
 
792
 
 
—
 
 
916
 
 
70
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
197
 
 
250
 
 
—
 
 
282
 
 
3
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
460
 
 
895
 
 
—
 
 
818
 
 
31
 


 Lease financing
 
 
273
 
 
826
 
 
—
 
 
335
 
 
7
 


 Consumer
 
 
60
 
 
61
 
 
—
 
 
43
 
 
1
 


 With allowance recorded:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 
1,696
 
 
2,071
 
 
103
 
 
1,606
 
 
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
52
 
 
52
 
 
22
 
 
39
 
 
—
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
345
 
 
345
 
 
145
 
 
369
 
 
1
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
2,720
 
 
2,720
 
 
223
 
 
3,063
 
 
—
 


 Lease financing
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Consumer
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Total:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
 
2,334
 
 
2,851
 
 
103
 
 
2,698
 
 
—
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
834
 
 
844
 
 
22
 
 
955
 
 
70
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
542
 
 
595
 
 
145
 
 
651
 
 
4
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
3,180
 
 
3,615
 
 
223
 
 
3,881
 
 
31
 


 Lease financing
 
 
273
 
 
826
 
 
—
 
 
335
 
 
7
 


 Consumer
 
 
60
 
 
61
 
 
—
 
 
43
 
 
1
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
7,223
 
$
8,792
 
$
493
 
$
8,563
 
$
113
 


 
 




69



 
Table of Contents
        The
following tables present the classes of the loan portfolio summarized by the aggregate pass rating and the classified ratings of special mention, substandard and doubtful within
DNB's internal risk rating system as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
 Credit Quality Indicators  

























 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Pass
 
Special Mention
 
Substandard
 
Doubtful
 
Total
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
$
24,589
 
$
—
 
$
1,872
 
$
—
 
$
26,461
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
214,086
 
 
11,346
 
 
4,834
 
 
2,031
 
 
232,297
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
74,961
 
 
690
 
 
586
 
 
65
 
 
76,302
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
17,624
 
 
—
 
 
7,194
 
 
—
 
 
24,818
 


 Lease financing
 
 
191
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
191
 


 Consumer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home equity
 
 
35,976
 
 
—
 
 
66
 
 
—
 
 
36,042
 


 Other
 
 
7,573
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
7,573
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
375,000
 
$
12,036
 
$
14,552
 
$
2,096
 
$
403,684
 


 
 




 

























 
 
December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Pass
 
Special
Mention
 
Substandard
 
Doubtful
 
Total
 


 
 


 Residential mortgage
 
$
28,595
 
$
—
 
$
2,334
 
$
—
 
$
30,929
 


 Commercial mortgage
 
 
202,062
 
 
10,054
 
 
5,983
 
 
—
 
 
218,099
 


 Commercial:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial term
 
 
68,916
 
 
241
 
 
1,423
 
 
—
 
 
70,580
 


 Commercial construction
 
 
18,294
 
 
—
 
 
8,670
 
 
—
 
 
26,964
 


 Lease financing
 
 
765
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
133
 
 
898
 


 Consumer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home equity
 
 
40,386
 
 
—
 
 
11
 
 
—
 
 
40,397
 


 Other
 
 
8,304
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
8,304
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
367,322
 
$
10,295
 
$
18,421
 
$
133
 
$
396,171
 


 
 




70



 
Table of Contents
        The
following tables set forth the activity and composition of DNB's allowance for credit losses at the dates indicated. 
 Allowance for Credit Losses and Recorded Investment in Financing Receivables  




























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Commercial
 
Lease
Financing
 
Residential
Mortgage
 
Consumer
 
Unallocated
 
Total
 


 
 


 Allowance for credit losses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Beginning balance — January 1, 2011
 
$
4,387
 
$
86
 
$
454
 
$
482
 
$
475
 
$
5,884
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
(768
)
 
(200
)
 
(280
)
 
(64
)
 
—
 
 
(1,312
)


 Recoveries
 
 
9
 
 
3
 
 
79
 
 
21
 
 
—
 
 
112
 


 Provisions
 
 
1,317
 
 
121
 
 
130
 
 
(179
)
 
91
 
 
1,480
 


 
 


 Ending balance — December 31, 2011
 
$
4,945
 
$
10
 
$
383
 
$
260
 
$
566
 
$
6,164
 


 
 


 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
1,185
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
1,185
 


 
 


 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
3,760
 
$
10
 
$
383
 
$
260
 
$
566
 
$
4,979
 


 
 


 Loans receivables:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending balance
 
$
333,417
 
$
191
 
$
26,461
 
$
43,615
 
 
 
 
$
403,684
 


 
 


 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
5,348
 
$
61
 
$
2,014
 
$
151
 
 
 
 
$
7,574
 


 
 


 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
328,069
 
$
130
 
$
24,447
 
$
43,464
 
 
 
 
$
396,110
 


 
 


 Reserve for unfunded loan commitments
 
$
90
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
9
 
 
 
 
$
99
 


 
 




 




























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Commercial
 
Lease
Financing
 
Residential
Mortgage
 
Consumer
 
Unallocated
 
Total
 


 
 


 Allowance for credit losses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Beginning balance — January 1, 2010
 
$
3,800
 
$
150
 
$
648
 
$
473
 
$
406
 
$
5,884
 


 Charge-offs
 
 
(577
)
 
(548
)
 
(520
)
 
(210
)
 
—
 
 
(1,855
)


 Recoveries
 
 
11
 
 
20
 
 
15
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
46
 


 Provisions
 
 
1,153
 
 
464
 
 
311
 
 
219
 
 
69
 
 
2,216
 


 
 


 Ending balance — December 31, 2010
 
$
4,387
 
$
86
 
$
454
 
$
482
 
$
475
 
$
5,884
 


 
 




71



 
Table of Contents
 (5)    OFFICE PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT  


















 
 
Estimated
Useful Lives
 
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Land
 
 
 
 $
611
 
 $
611
 


 Buildings
 
 5-31.5 years
 
 
 10,882
 
 
 10,796
 


 Furniture, fixtures and equipment
 
 2-20 years
 
 
 13,513
 
 
 13,103
 


 
 


 Total cost
 
 
 
 
 25,006
 
 
 24,510
 


 Less accumulated depreciation
 
 
 
 
 (17,160
)
 
 (16,262
)


 
 


 Office property and equipment, net
 
 
 
 $
7,846
 
 $
8,248
 


 
 




        Amounts
charged to operating expense for depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 amounted to $913,000 and $1.1 million, respectively. 
 (6)    DEPOSITS  
        Included in interest bearing time deposits are certificates of deposit issued in amounts of $100,000 or more in the amount of
$50.6 million and $72.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These certificates and their remaining maturities at December 31, 2011 were as follows: 













(Dollars in thousands)
 
December 31
2011
 


 
 


 Three months or less
 
 $
6,335
 


 Over three through six months
 
 
 5,782
 


 Over six through twelve months
 
 
 21,161
 


 Over one year through two years
 
 
 14,333
 


 Over two years
 
 
 2,974
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
50,585
 


 
 




        Certificates
of deposit scheduled to mature have the following remaining maturities: 













(Dollars in thousands)
 
December 31
2011
 


 
 


 One year or less
 
 $
65,985
 


 Over one year through two years
 
 
 15,495
 


 Over two years through three years
 
 
 15,083
 


 Over three years through four years
 
 
 6,483
 


 Over four years through five years
 
 
 2,186
 


 Over five years
 
 
 3
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
105,235
 


 
 




 (7)    FHLBP ADVANCES AND SHORT-TERM BORROWED FUNDS  
        DNB's short-term borrowed funds consist of borrowings at the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLBP), repurchase
agreements and Federal funds purchased. Repurchase agreements and Federal funds purchased generally represent one-day borrowings. Borrowings at the FHLBP consist of overnight and
90 day borrowings. DNB had $23.8 million of repurchase agreements at December 31, 2011 with an average rate of 0.40% and $23.3 million of repurchase agreements at
December 31, 2010 with an average rate of .65%. 
72




 










Table of Contents 
        In addition to short-term borrowings, DNB maintains borrowing arrangements with a correspondent bank and the FHLBP, as well as access to the discount
window at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia to meet short-term liquidity needs. Through these relationships, DNB has available credit of approximately $184.7 million. DNB has
a maximum borrowing capacity at the FHLBP of approximately $167.7 million. At December 31, 2011, DNB had $20.0 million of outstanding long-term advances, which mature
at various dates through the year-ended December 31, 2015, as shown in the table below. These advances are collateralized by loans and investment securities, and a lien on the
Bank's FHLBP stock. At December 31, 2010, DNB had $25.0 million of outstanding long-term advances with an average rate of 4.43%. All of the advances are convertible term
advances and are callable, at the FHLBP's option, at various dates. If an advance is called by the FHLBP, DNB has the option of repaying the borrowing, or continuing to borrow at three month Libor
plus 10-14 basis points, depending on the advance. In addition to the $20.0 million of borrowings from the FHLBP at December 31, 2011, the FHLBP had issued letters of credit,
on DNB's behalf, totaling $20.0 million against DNB's available credit lines. These letters of credit were used to secure public deposits as required by law. 
        Other
borrowings totaled $598,000 at December 31, 2011 in lease obligations. Other borrowings at December 31, 2010 totaled $2.6 million and included a $621,000 lease
obligation and a $2.0 million secured financing. In December, 2010, DNB transferred SBA loans of $2.0 million which were accounted for as a secured financing as of December 31,
2010. Pursuant to ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing, such SBA loan transfer are treated as a secured financing until the recourse period expires which is
generally 90 days. 
















 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Weighted
Average Rate
 
Amount
 


 
 


 Due by December 31, 2012
 
 
—
%
$
—
 


 Due by December 31, 2013
 
 
2.48
 
 
10,000
 


 Due by December 31, 2014
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Due by December 31, 2015
 
 
5.86
 
 
10,000
 


 
 


 Total
 
 
 4.17
%
$
20,000
 


 
 




 (8)    CAPITAL LEASE AND OPERATING LEASE OBLIGATIONS  
        Included in other borrowings is a long-term capital lease agreement, which relates to DNB's West Goshen branch. As of
December 31, 2011 the lease has a carrying amount of $343,000, net of accumulated depreciation of $407,000, and is included in the balance of office properties and equipment in the accompanying
statements of financial condition. The following is a schedule of the future minimum capital lease payments, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, as of
December 31, 2011: 













(Dollars in thousands)
 
Year ended
December 31
Amount
 


 
 


 2012
 
$
106
 


 2013
 
 
106
 


 2014
 
 
107
 


 2015
 
 
107
 


 2016
 
 
107
 


 Thereafter
 
 
602
 


 
 


 Total minimum lease payments
 
 
1,135
 


 Less amount representing interest
 
 
(537
)


 
 


 Present value of net minimum lease payments
 
 $
598
 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 




73



 
Table of Contents
        The
following is a schedule of the future minimum operating lease payments as of December 31, 2011. 













(Dollars in thousands)
 
Year ended
December 31
Amount
 


 
 


 2012
 
$
602
 


 2013
 
 
605
 


 2014
 
 
522
 


 2015
 
 
421
 


 2016
 
 
325
 


 Thereafter
 
 
1,292
 


 
 


 Total minimum lease payments
 
 $
3,767
 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 




 (9)    JUNIOR SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES  
        DNB has two issuances of junior subordinated debentures (the "debentures") as follows. The majority of the proceeds of each issuance
were invested in DNB's
subsidiary, DNB First, National Association, to increase the Bank's capital levels. The junior subordinated debentures issued in each case qualify as a component of capital for regulatory purposes.
DNB Capital Trust I and II are special purpose Delaware business trusts, which are not consolidated. 
 DNB Capital Trust I  
        DNB's first issuance of junior subordinated debentures was on July 20, 2001. This issuance of debentures are floating rate and
were issued to DNB Capital Trust I, a Delaware business trust in which DNB owns all of the common equity. DNB Capital Trust I issued $5 million of floating rate (6 month Libor plus
3.75%, with a cap of 12%) capital preferred securities to a qualified institutional buyer. The proceeds of these securities were used by the Trust, along with DNB's capital contribution, to purchase
$5,155,000 principal amount of DNB's floating rate junior subordinated debentures. The preferred securities have been redeemable since July 25, 2006 and must be redeemed upon maturity of the
debentures on July 25, 2031. 
 DNB Capital Trust II  
        DNB's second issuance of junior subordinated debentures was on March 30, 2005. This issuance of debentures are floating rate and
were issued to DNB Capital Trust II, a Delaware business trust in which DNB owns all of the common equity. DNB Capital Trust II issued $4.0 million of floating rate (the rate was fixed at 6.56%
for the first 5 years and is now adjusting at a rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 1.77%) capital preferred securities. The proceeds of these securities were used by the Trust, along with
DNB's capital contribution, to purchase $4,124,000 principal amount of DNB's floating rate junior subordinated debentures. The preferred securities have been redeemable since May 23, 2010. The
preferred securities must be redeemed upon maturity of the debentures on May 23, 2035. 
 (10)    FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS  
        FASB ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, establishes a fair value hierarchy based on the nature of data inputs for
fair value determinations, under which DNB is required to value each asset within its scope using assumptions that market participations would utilize to value that asset. When DNB uses its own
assumptions, it is required to disclose additional information about the assumptions used and the effect of the measurement on earnings or the net change in assets for the period. 
74



 
Table of Contents
        The
three levels of the fair value hierarchy under FASB ASC Topic 820 are as follows: 
        Level 1—Quoted
prices in active markets for identical securities. 
        Level 2—Quoted
prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model derived
valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable. 
        Level 3—Instruments
whose significant value drivers are unobservable. 
        A
description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value is set forth below: 
        DNB's
available-for-sale investment securities, which generally include U.S. government agencies and mortgage backed securities, collateralized mortgage
obligations, corporate bonds and equity securities are reported at fair value. These securities are valued by an independent third party ("preparer"). The preparer's evaluations are based on market
data. They utilize evaluated pricing models that vary by asset and incorporate available trade, bid and other market information. For securities that do not trade on a daily basis, their evaluated
pricing applications apply available information such as benchmarking and matrix pricing. The market inputs normally sought in the evaluation of securities include benchmark yields, reported trades,
broker/dealer quotes (only obtained from market makers or broker/dealers recognized as market participants), issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bid, offers and
reference data. For certain securities additional inputs may be used or some market inputs may not be applicable. Inputs are prioritized differently on any given day based on market conditions. 
        U.S.
Government agencies are evaluated and priced using multi-dimensional relational models and option adjusted spreads. State and municipal securities are evaluated on a series of
matrices including reported trades and material event notices. Mortgage backed securities are evaluated using matrix correlation to treasury or floating index benchmarks, prepayment speeds, monthly
payment information and other benchmarks. Other investments are evaluated using a broker-quote based application, including quotes from issuers. 
        Impaired
loans are those loans that the Bank has measured impairment generally based on the fair value of the loan's collateral. Fair value is generally determined based upon independent
third-party appraisals of the properties, or discounted cash flows based upon the expected proceeds. These assets are included as Level 3 fair values, based upon the lowest level of input that
is significant to the fair value measurements. 
        OREO
assets are adjusted to fair value less estimated selling costs upon transfer of the loans to OREO. Subsequently, OREO assets are carried at the lower of carrying value or fair
value. Fair value is based upon independent market prices, appraised values of the collateral or management's estimation of the value of the collateral. There assets are included as level 3
fair values. 
75



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table summarizes the assets at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 that are recognized on DNB's balance sheet using fair value measurement determined
based on the differing levels of input. 






















 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3
 
Assets at
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
 $
—
 
 $
43,891
 
 $
—
 
 $
43,891
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 25,313
 
 
 —
 
 
 25,313
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
 —
 
 
 6,152
 
 
 —
 
 
 6,152
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 —
 
 
 26,347
 
 
 —
 
 
 26,347
 


 Asset-backed securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,815
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,815
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 12
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 12
 


 
 


 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
 
 $
12
 
 $
107,518
 
 $
—
 
 $
107,530
 


 
 


 Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Impaired loans
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,649
 
 $
3,649
 


 OREO & other repossessed property
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 100
 
 
 100
 


 
 


 Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
3,749
 
 $
3,749
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




 






















 
 
December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3
 
Assets at
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US Government agency obligations
 
$
—
 
$
44,244
 
$
—
 
$
44,244
 


 GSE mortgage-backed securities
 
 
—
 
 
63,998
 
 
—
 
 
63,998
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations GSE
 
 
—
 
 
16,618
 
 
—
 
 
16,618
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
—
 
 
17,288
 
 
—
 
 
17,288
 


 Equity securities
 
 
13
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
13
 


 
 


 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
 
$
13
 
$
142,148
 
$
—
 
$
142,161
 


 
 


 Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Impaired loans
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
4,320
 
$
4,320
 


 
 


 Total assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
4,320
 
$
4,320
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




        Impaired loans.    Impaired loans, which are measured for impairment using the fair value of the
collateral for collateral dependent loans, had a carrying amount of $7.6 million at December 31, 2011. Of this, $4.8 million had a valuation allowance of $1.2 million and
$2.8 million had no valuation allowance as of December 31, 2011. Impaired loans had a carrying amount of $7.2 million at December 31, 2010. Of this, $4.8 million had
a valuation allowance of $493,000 and $2.4 million had no valuation allowance as of December 31, 2010. 
        Other Real Estate Owned & other repossessed property.    Other real estate owned ("OREO")
consists of properties acquired as a result of, or in-lieu-of, foreclosure. Properties or other assets (primarily repossessed assets formerly leased) are classified as OREO and
other repossessed property are initially recorded at fair value less cost to sell at the date of foreclosure, establishing a new cost basis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically
performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying value or fair value, less estimated costs to sell. Costs relating to the development or improvement of the assets are
capitalized and costs relating to holding the assets are charged to expense. 
76



 
Table of Contents
DNB
had $4.0 million of such assets at December 31, 2011, which consisted of $3.8 million in OREO and $212,000 in other repossessed property. DNB had $4.3 million of such
assets at December 31, 2010, which consisted of $4.1 million in OREO and $220,000 in other repossessed property. Subsequent to the
repossession of these assets, DNB wrote down the carrying values by $23,000 in other repossessed assets during the year ending December 31, 2011. 
        Below
is management's estimate of the fair value of all financial instruments, whether carried at cost or fair value on DNB's consolidated balance sheet. The carrying amounts and
estimated fair values of financial instruments at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are as follows: 






















 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Carrying
Amount
 
Estimated
Fair
Value
 
Carrying
Amount
 
Estimated
Fair
Value
 


 
 


 Financial assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 $
32,877
 
 $
32,877
 
 $
26,360
 
 $
26,360
 


 AFS investment securities
 
 
 107,530
 
 
 107,530
 
 
 142,161
 
 
 142,161
 


 HTM investment securities
 
 
 36,427
 
 
 37,681
 
 
 8,431
 
 
 8,723
 


 Restricted stock
 
 
 3,625
 
 
 3,625
 
 
 4,201
 
 
 4,201
 


 Loans and leases, net of allowance
 
 
 397,520
 
 
 395,320
 
 
 390,287
 
 
 391,091
 


 Accrued interest receivable
 
 
 2,536
 
 
 2,536
 
 
 2,283
 
 
 2,283
 


 Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deposits
 
 
 497,545
 
 
 490,681
 
 
 492,746
 
 
 494,673
 


 Borrowings
 
 
 44,368
 
 
 47,094
 
 
 50,951
 
 
 53,608
 


 Junior subordinated debentures
 
 
 9,279
 
 
 8,481
 
 
 9,279
 
 
 9,132
 


 Accrued interest payable
 
 
 444
 
 
 444
 
 
 527
 
 
 527
 


 Off-balance sheet instruments
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




        The
specific estimation methods and assumptions used can have a substantial impact on the resulting fair values of financial instruments. Following is a brief summary of the significant
assumptions, methods, and estimates used in estimating fair value. 
        Limitations    Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on relevant market
information about the financial instrument. These estimates do not reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time DNB's entire holdings of a particular financial
instrument. Because no market exists for a significant portion of DNB's financial instruments, fair value estimates are based on judgments regarding future expected loss experience, current economic
conditions, risk characteristics of various financial instruments, and other factors. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and
therefore cannot be determined with precision. Changes in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates. 
        Cash and Cash Equivalents, Investment Securities, Accrued Interest Receivable and Accrued Interest Payable
    The carrying amounts for short-term investments (cash and cash equivalents) and accrued interest receivable and payable approximate fair value. The fair value of investment
securities are determined by an independent third party ("preparer"). The preparer's evaluations are based on market data. They utilize evaluated pricing models that vary by asset and incorporate
available trade, bid and other market information. For securities that do not trade on a daily basis, their evaluated pricing applications apply available information such as benchmarking and matrix
pricing. The market inputs normally sought in the evaluation of securities include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes (only obtained from market makers or broker/dealers
recognized as market participants), issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bid, offers and reference data. For certain securities additional inputs may 
77



 
Table of Contents
be
used or some market inputs may not be applicable. Inputs are prioritized differently on any given day based on market conditions. 
        U.S.
Government agencies are evaluated and priced using multi-dimensional relational models and option adjusted spreads. State and municipal securities are evaluated on a series of
matrices including reported trades and material event notices. Mortgage backed securities are evaluated using matrix
correlation to treasury or floating index benchmarks, prepayment speeds, monthly payment information and other benchmarks. Other investments are evaluated using a broker- quote based application,
including quotes from issuers. The carrying amount of non-readily marketable equity securities approximates liquidation value. 
        Loans    Fair values are estimated for portfolios of loans with similar financial characteristics. Loans
are segregated by type such as commercial, commercial mortgages, residential mortgages, consumer and non-accrual loans. The fair value of performing loans is calculated by discounting
expected cash flows using an estimated market discount rate. Expected cash flows include both contractual cash flows and prepayments of loan balances. Prepayments on consumer loans were determined
using the median of estimates of securities dealers for mortgage-backed investment pools. 
        The
estimated discount rate considers credit and interest rate risk inherent in the loan portfolios and other factors such as liquidity premiums and incremental servicing costs to an
investor. Management has made estimates of fair value discount rates that it believes to be reasonable. However, because there is no market for many of these financial instruments, management has no
basis to determine whether the fair value presented would be indicative of the value negotiated in an actual sale. 
        The
fair value for non-accrual loans not based on fair value of collateral was derived through a discounted cash flow analysis, which includes the opportunity costs of
carrying a non-performing asset. An estimated discount rate was used for these non-accrual loans, based on the probability of loss and the expected time to recovery. 
        Deposits and Borrowings    The fair values disclosed for demand deposits are, by definition, equal to
the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (that is, their carrying amounts). The carrying amounts of variable-rate money market accounts, savings accounts, and interest checking
accounts approximate their fair values at the reporting date. Fair values for fixed-rate CDs are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently
being offered on certificates to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits. 
        Off-balance-sheet Instruments (Disclosed at Cost)    Off-balance-sheet
instruments are primarily comprised of loan commitments, which are generally priced at market at the time of funding. Fees on commitments to extend credit and stand-by letters of credit
are deemed to be immaterial and these instruments are expected to be settled at face value or expire unused. It is impractical to assign any fair value to these instruments. At December 31,
2011, un-funded loan commitments totaled $57.7 million. Stand-by letters of credit totaled $4.0 million at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010,
un-funded loan commitments totaled $65.7 million. Stand-by letters of credit totaled $2.4 million at December 31, 2010. 
78



 
Table of Contents
 (11)    FEDERAL INCOME TAXES  
        Income tax expense (benefit) was comprised of the following: 
















 
 
Year Ended
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Current tax expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
 $
2,240
 
 $
1,188
 


 State
 
 
 —
 
 
 1
 


 Deferred income tax expense (benefit):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
 
 (174
)
 
 440
 


 State
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Income tax expense
 
 $
2,066
 
 $
1,629
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




        The
effective income tax rates of 29.6% for 2011 and 30.7% for 2010 were different than the applicable statutory Federal income tax rate of 34%. The reason for these differences follows: 
















 
 
Year Ended
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Federal income taxes at statutory rate
 
 $
2,369
 
 $
1,802
 


 Decrease resulting from:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Low income housing credits
 
 
 —
 
 
 (9
)


 Tax-exempt interest and dividend preference
 
 
 (222
)
 
 (94
)


 Bank owned life insurance
 
 
 (84
)
 
 (85
)


 Other, net increase
 
 
 3
 
 
 15
 


 
 


 Income tax expense
 
 $
2,066
 
 $
1,629
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




79



 
Table of Contents
        The
tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below: 
















 
 
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Deferred tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for credit losses
 
 $
2,096
 
 $
2,001
 


 Unrealized losses on securities
 
 
 4
 
 
 695
 


 Unrealized losses on reclassified securities
 
 
 31
 
 
 —
 


 Unrealized loss on pension obligation
 
 
 725
 
 
 447
 


 AMT credit carry forward
 
 
 —
 
 
 33
 


 Low income housing tax credit carry forward (LIHC)
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Capital loss disallowance
 
 
 1
 
 
 —
 


 State net operating losses
 
 
 —
 
 
 543
 


 Unvested stock awards
 
 
 19
 
 
 27
 


 Deferred gain on sale / leaseback on buildings
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Deferred compensation (SERP)
 
 
 380
 
 
 358
 


 Nonqualified stock options
 
 
 15
 
 
 —
 


 Non-accrued interest
 
 
 347
 
 
 316
 


 Joint venture difference
 
 
 64
 
 
 89
 


 Deferred compensation (BOLI)
 
 
 248
 
 
 251
 


 Provision for unfunded loans
 
 
 34
 
 
 48
 


 OREO write-downs
 
 
 69
 
 
 77
 


 Accrued expenses
 
 
 48
 
 
 31
 


 
 


 Total gross deferred tax assets
 
 
 4,081
 
 
 4,916
 


 Deferred tax liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation
 
 
 (91
)
 
 (119
)


 Pension expense
 
 
 (134
)
 
 (130
)


 Bank shares tax credit
 
 
 (102
)
 
 (86
)


 Prepaid expenses
 
 
 (139
)
 
 (216
)


 
 


 Total gross deferred tax liabilities
 
 
 (466
)
 
 (551
)


 
 


 Valuation allowance
 
 
 (1
)
 
 (543
)


 
 


 Net deferred tax asset
 
 $
3,614
 
 $
3,822
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, DNB had no material unrecognized tax benefits or accrued interest and penalties. It is DNB's policy to account for interest and penalties accrued relative
to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. Federal and state tax years 2008 through 2011 were open for examination as of December 31, 2011. 
        DNB
had capital loss carryovers of $1,293,000 which expired on December 31, 2010. DNB had recorded a valuation allowance of $441,000 for the entire amount of tax benefits
associated with this item. During 2010, DNB incurred $3,000 of capital losses that could not be used. They will expire on December 31, 2013. A $1,000 valuation allowance has been recorded for
the tax benefits associated with this item. In addition, DNB had net operating loss carryovers with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania of $5.7 million and $5.4 million at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively for which a full valuation allowance has been established. These carryovers will begin to expire in 2021. In addition, DNB had AMT carry forwards as of
December 31, 2010 of $33,000. The AMT credit carry forward is expected to be fully utilized on the 2011 federal tax return, however, if it is not, it has an indefinite life and management
believes it is more likely than not that these credits will be utilized. All LIHC carry forward have been used. 
80




 










Table of Contents 
 (12)    EARNINGS PER SHARE  
        Basic earnings per share ("EPS") is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is computed using the treasury stock method and reflects the potential dilution that could occur from the exercise of stock options, and warrants and the amortized portion of unvested
stock awards. Stock options and unvested stock awards for which the exercise or the grant price exceeds the average market price over the period have an anti-dilutive effect on EPS and,
accordingly, are excluded from the calculation. Treasury shares are not deemed outstanding for calculations. There were 0 anti-dilutive stock warrants outstanding, 148,459
anti-dilutive stock options outstanding, and 0 anti-dilutive stock awards at December 31, 2011. There were 186,311 anti-dilutive stock warrants, 158,975
anti-dilutive stock options outstanding and 8,550 anti-dilutive stock awards at December 31, 2010. See Note 17 for a discussion of stock warrants issued in
conjunction with Preferred shares issued to the U.S. Treasury
Department as part of the CPP. The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share: 




























 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


(In thousands,
except per share data)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 
 
Income
 
Shares
 
Amount
 
Income
 
Shares
 
Amount
 


 
 


 Basic EPS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common stockholders
 
 $
4,123
 
 
 2,675
 
 $
1.54
 
 $
3,052
 
 
 2,636
 
 $
1.16
 


 
 


 Effect of potential dilutive common stock equivalents — stock options, restricted shares and warrants
 
 
 —
 
 
 20
 
 
 (0.01
)
 
 —
 
 
 1
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Diluted EPS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income available to common stockholders after assumed conversions
 
 $
4,123
 
 
 2,695
 
 $
1.53
 
 $
3,052
 
 
 2,637
 
 $
1.16
 


 
 




 (13)    OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)  
        The components of "Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)" and the related tax effects are as follows: 



















(Dollars in thousands)
 
Before-Tax
Amount
 
Tax
Benefit
(Expense)
 
Net-of-Tax
Amount
 


 
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
4,902
 


 Other Comprehensive Income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized holding gains arising during the period
 
 $
2,069
 
$
(704
)
$
1,365
 


 Discount on AFS to HTM reclassification
 
 
 (116
)
 
39
 
 
(77
)


 Accretion of discount on AFS to HTM reclassification
 
 
 24
 
 
(8
)
 
16
 


 Less reclassification for gains included in net income
 
 
 (38
)
 
13
 
 
(25
)


 Unrealized actuarial losses — pension
 
 
 (817
)
 
278
 
 
(539
)


 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
5,642
 


 
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
3,670
 


 Other Comprehensive Income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized holding gains arising during the period
 
$
369
 
$
(125
)
$
244
 


 Accretion of discount on AFS to HTM reclassification
 
 
594
 
 
(202
)
 
392
 


 Less reclassification for gains included in net income
 
 
(2,007
)
 
682
 
 
(1,325
)


 Unrealized actuarial losses — pension
 
 
(121
)
 
41
 
 
(80
)


 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
2,901
 


 
 




81



 
Table of Contents
        The
components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included in stockholders' equity, are as follows: 



















(Dollars in thousands)
 
Before-Tax
Amount
 
Tax
Effect
 
Net-of-Tax
Amount
 


 
 


 December 30, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net unrealized loss on AFS securities
 
 $
(13
)
$
4
 
$
(9
)


 Discount on AFS to HTM reclassification
 
 
 (92
)
 
31
 
 
(61
)


 Unrealized actuarial losses — pension
 
 
 (2,131
)
 
725
 
 
(1,406
)


 
 


 Total of accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 $
(2,236
)
$
760
 
$
(1,476
)


 
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net unrealized loss on AFS securities
 
$
(2,044
)
$
695
 
$
(1,349
)


 Unrealized actuarial losses — pension
 
 
(1,314
)
 
447
 
 
(867
)


 
 


 Total of accumulated other comprehensive income
 
$
(3,358
)
$
1,142
 
$
(2,216
)


 
 




 (14)    BENEFIT PLANS  
        Pension Plan    The Bank maintains a defined benefit pension plan (the "Plan") covering all employees,
including officers, who have been employed for one year and have attained 21 years of age. Prior to May 1, 1985, an individual must have attained the age of 25 and accrued one year of
service. The Plan provides pension benefits to eligible retired employees at 65 years of age equal to 1.5% of their average monthly pay multiplied by their years of accredited service (maximum
40 years). The accrued benefit is based on the monthly average of their highest five consecutive years of their last ten years of service. The Plan generally covers only full-time
employees. 
        Effective
December 31, 2003, DNB amended its Plan to curtail future eligibility and so that no participants will earn additional benefits under the Plan after December 31,
2003. As a result of this amendment, no further service or compensation was credited under the Plan after December 31, 2003. The Plan, although frozen, will continue to provide benefit payments
and employees can still earn vesting credits until retirement. 
        The
following table sets forth the Plan's funded status, as of the measurement dates of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and amounts recognized in DNB's consolidated financial
statements at December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
















 
 
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Projected benefit obligation
 
 $
(6,777
)
 $
(6,629
)


 
 


 Accumulated benefit obligation
 
 
 (6,777
)
 
 (6,629
)


 Fair value of plan assets
 
 
 5,040
 
 
 5,696
 


 
 


 Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position consist of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 $
(1,737
)
 $
(933
)


 
 


 Funded status
 
 $
(1,737
)
 $
(933
)


 
 


 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consist of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
 $
2,131
 
 $
1,314
 


 
 


 Total
 
 $
2,131
 
 $
1,314
 


 
 




82



 
Table of Contents
        The
amounts and changes in DNB's pension benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 
















 
 
Year ended December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Change in benefit obligation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
 
 $
6,629
 
 $
6,715
 


 Interest cost
 
 
 346
 
 
 394
 


 Actuarial loss
 
 
 514
 
 
 507
 


 Benefits paid
 
 
 (771
)
 
 (1,008
)


 Service cost
 
 
 59
 
 
 21
 


 
 


 Benefit obligation at end of year
 
 $
6,777
 
 $
6,629
 


 
 


 Change in plan assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Fair value of assets at beginning of year
 
 $
5,696
 
 $
6,015
 


 Actual return on plan assets
 
 
 (48
)
 
 744
 


 Employer contribution
 
 
 163
 
 
 0
 


 Benefits paid
 
 
 (771
)
 
 (1,008
)


 Estimated expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 (55
)


 
 


 Fair value of assets at end of year
 
 $
5,040
 
 $
5,696
 


 
 




        The
Plan's assets are invested using an asset allocation strategy in units of certain equity, bond, real estate and money market funds. The following table summarizes the weighted
average asset allocations as of the dates indicated: 
















 
 
December 31
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 4.2
%
 
 6.1
%


 
 


 Equity securities
 
 
 44.2
 
 
 44.8
 


 Fixed income securities
 
 
 51.6
 
 
 49.1
 


 
 


 Total
 
 
 100.0
%
 
 100.0
%


 
 




        Equity
securities consist mainly of equity common trust funds and mutual funds. Fixed income securities consist mainly of fixed income common trust funds and individual securities.
Pension plan assets are invested with a moderate growth objective, with target asset allocations of approximately 50 - 60% bonds and cash and approximately
40 - 50% in stocks. 
83



 
Table of Contents
        Net
periodic pension costs for the years indicated include the following components: 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Service cost
 
 $
59
 
 $
21
 


 Interest cost
 
 
 346
 
 
 394
 


 Expected return on plan assets
 
 
 (309
)
 
 (351
)


 Recognized net actuarial loss
 
 
 56
 
 
 48
 


 
 


 Net periodic cost
 
 $
152
 
 $
112
 


 
 


 Assumptions used:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Discount rate
 
 
 4.25
%
 
 5.40
%


 Rate of increase in compensation level
 
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 Expected long-term rate of return on assets
 
 
 5.50
 
 
 6.00
 


 
 




DNB's
estimated future benefit payments are as follows: 
















(Dollars in thousands)
 
Period
 
Benefits
 


 
 


 
 
 
2012
 
$
294
 


 
 
 
2013
 
 
290
 


 
 
 
2014
 
 
298
 


 
 
 
2015
 
 
338
 


 
 
 
2016
 
 
359
 


 
 
 
2017-2021
 
 
2,102
 


 
 




        The
fair value of DNB's pension plan assets by asset category are as follows: 






















 
 
December 31, 2011
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3
 
Assets at
Fair
Value
 


 
 


 Mutual fund — equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US equities
 
 $
1,217
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
1,217
 


 International equities
 
 
 812
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 812
 


 Real estate
 
 
 201
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 201
 


 Mutual funds — fixed income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Domestic fixed income
 
 
 577
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 577
 


 US corporate bonds, notes and cash
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,023
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,023
 


 Cash
 
 
 210
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 210
 


 
 


 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
 
 $
3,017
 
 $
2,023
 
 $
—
 
 $
5,040
 


 
 




84



 
Table of Contents























 
 
December 31, 2010
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Level 1
 
Level 2
 
Level 3
 
Assets at
Fair
Value
 


 
 


 Mutual fund — equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 US equities
 
$
1,325
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
1,325
 


 International equities
 
 
998
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
998
 


 Real estate
 
 
231
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
231
 


 Mutual funds — fixed income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Domestic fixed income
 
 
993
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
993
 


 US corporate bonds, notes and cash
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Corporate bonds
 
 
—
 
 
1,803
 
 
—
 
 
1,803
 


 Cash
 
 
346
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
346
 


 
 


 Total assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis
 
$
3,893
 
$
1,803
 
$
—
 
$
5,696
 


 
 




        Retirement and Death Benefit Agreement    On November 24, 1999, the Bank and Henry F. Thorne, its
then current Chief Executive Officer (the "Executive"), entered into a Death Benefit Agreement providing for supplemental death and retirement benefits for him (the "Supplemental Plan"). On
December 23, 2003, the Supplemental Plan was replaced by a Retirement and Death Benefit Agreement (the "Replacement Plan"). 
        The
Replacement Plan provides that the Bank and the Executive share in the rights to the cash surrender value and death benefits of a split-dollar life insurance policy (the "Policy")
The policy is designed to provide the Executive, upon attaining age 65, with projected annual after-tax payments of approximately $35,000. In addition, the Policy is intended to provide
the Executive with a projected death benefit of $750,000. 
        In
July 2008, DNB commenced making monthly payments of $3,658 to the Executive. The remaining liability under the plan was $730,000 and $740,000 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The annual expense for the same respective periods was $41,000 and $44,000. 
        Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    On
December 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of DNB Financial Corporation approved, and effective April 1, 2007 and December 8, 2008 modified, a Supplemental Executive Retirement
Plan (also known as a SERP) for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William S. Latoff. The purpose of the SERP is to provide Mr. Latoff a pension supplement beginning at age 70 for
15 years in approximately equal amounts each year and to compensate him for the loss of retirement plan funding opportunities from his other business interests because of his commitments to DNB
as Chairman and CEO. 
        The
remaining liability under the plan was $1.1 million and $1.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The annual expense for the same respective
periods was $63,000 and $60,000. 
        401(k) Retirement Savings Plan    In 1994, the Bank adopted a retirement savings plan intended to comply
with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Participants are permitted to authorize pre-tax savings contributions to a separate trust established under the 401(k)
plan, subject to limitations on deductibility of contributions imposed by the Internal Revenue Code. Effective July 1, 2007 the Bank amended the plan to allow after-tax
contributions to be made as well. The contributions are subject to the same limitations. Effective January 1, 2010, management indicated that it would evaluate discretionary matching
contributions each quarter based upon DNB's financial performance. DNB had no matching contributions to the 401(k) plan in 2011 and 2010. 
        Profit Sharing Plan    The Bank maintains a Profit Sharing Plan for eligible employees. The plan
provides that the Bank make contributions equal to 3% of the eligible participant's W-2 wages. DNB's 
85



 
Table of Contents
related
expense associated with the Profit Sharing Plan was $219,000 and $216,000 in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        Stock Option Plan    DNB has a Stock Option Plan for employees and directors. Under the plan, options
(both qualified and non-qualified) to purchase a maximum of 643,369 (as adjusted for subsequent stock dividends) shares of DNB's common stock could be issued to employees and directors. 
        Under
the plan, option exercise prices must equal the fair market value of the shares on the date of option grant and the option exercise period may not exceed ten years. Vesting of
options under the plan is determined by the Plan Committee. There were 156,144 and 189,007 shares available for grant at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. All options with the exception
of 44,600 options granted on April 23, 2010 and 44,600 options granted on December 12, 2011 are immediately exercisable. The options granted on April 23, 2010 have a fair value of
$100,000 or $2.25 per share, based on a risk free interest rate of 3.273%, a dividend yield of 1.73% and a volatility of 35.564% and are subject to four year cliff vesting. These options which expire
on April 23, 2017 if not exercised or cancelled, have an exercise price of $6.93 per share, and the shares are restricted from resale for two years after exercise. These options are exercisable
only at and after such time as the market value of the common stock first equals or exceeds $7.97, which is 115% of the $6.93 exercise price. The options granted on December 12, 2011 have a
fair value of $141,000 or $3.17 per share, based on a risk free interest rate of 1.445%, a dividend yield of 1.16% and a volatility of 36.513% and are subject to three year cliff vesting. These
options which expire on December 12, 2018 if not exercised or cancelled, have an exercise price
of $10.31 per share, and the shares are restricted from resale for two years after exercise. These options are exercisable only at and after such time as the market value of the common stock first
equals or exceeds $11.34, which is 110% of the $10.31 exercise price. DNB expensed $27,000 and $17,000 during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively and anticipates additional
expense of $57,000 through April 23, 2014 for the options granted on April 23, 2010 and $139,000 through December 12, 2014 for the options granted on December 12, 2011, the
dates the options can first be exercised. 
        Stock
option activity is indicated below: 
















 
 
Number
Outstanding
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price
 


 
 


 Outstanding January 1, 2010
 
 
169,503
 
$
19.19
 


 Issued
 
 
44,600
 
 
6.93
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(1,109
)
 
20.95
 


 Expired
 
 
(9,419
)
 
9.23
 


 
 


 Outstanding December 31, 2010
 
 
203,575
 
$
16.96
 


 Issued
 
 
44,600
 
 
10.31
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(2,323
)
 
12.95
 


 Expired
 
 
(9,414
)
 
11.16
 


 
 


 Outstanding December 31, 2011
 
 
 236,438
 
$
15.98
 


 
 




86




 










Table of Contents 
        The weighted-average price and weighted average remaining contractual life for the outstanding options are listed below for the dates indicated. 
























December 31, 2011
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted Average 
 
 
 


Range of Exercise Prices
 
Number
Outstanding
 
Number
Exercisable
 
Exercise
Price
 
Remaining
Contractual Life
 
Intrinsic
Value
 


 
 


 $  6.93-13.99
 
 
88,200
 
 
—
 
$
8.64
 
6.14 years
 
$
180,002
 


   14.00-19.99
 
 
81,096
 
 
81,096
 
 
17.44
 
2.96 years
 
 
—
 


   20.00-22.99
 
 
19,101
 
 
19,101
 
 
22.78
 
2.98 years
 
 
—
 


   23.00-24.27
 
 
48,041
 
 
48,041
 
 
24.27
 
3.30 years
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 
 236,438
 
 
148,238
 
$
15.98
 
4.22 years
 
$
180,002
 


 
 




 
























December 31, 2010
 


 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted Average 
 
 
 


Range of Exercise Prices
 
Number
Outstanding
 
Number
Exercisable
 
Exercise
Price
 
Remaining
Contractual Life
 
Intrinsic
Value
 


 
 


 $  6.93-10.99
 
 
44,600
 
 
—
 
$
6.93
 
6.32 years
 
$
92,322
 


   11.00-13.99
 
 
9,414
 
 
9,414
 
 
11.16
 
0.50 years
 
 
—
 


   14.00-19.99
 
 
82,419
 
 
82,419
 
 
17.44
 
3.98 years
 
 
—
 


   20.00-22.99
 
 
19,101
 
 
19,101
 
 
22.78
 
3.98 years
 
 
—
 


   23.00-24.27
 
 
48,041
 
 
48,041
 
 
24.27
 
4.30 years
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 
 203,575
 
 
158,975
 
$
16.96
 
4.40 years
 
$
92,322
 


 
 




        Other Stock-Based Compensation    DNB maintains an Incentive Equity and Deferred Compensation Plan. The
plan provides that up to 243,101 (as adjusted for subsequent stock dividends) shares of common stock may be granted, at the discretion of the Board, to individuals of DNB. Shares already granted are
issuable on the earlier of three years after the date of the grant or a change in control of DNB if the recipients are then employed by DNB ("Vest Date"). Upon issuance of the shares, resale of the
shares is restricted for an additional one year, during which the shares may not be sold, pledged or otherwise disposed of. Prior to the Vest Date and in the event the recipient terminates association
with DNB for reasons other than death, disability or change in control, the recipient forfeits all rights to the shares that would otherwise be issued under the grant. 
        Share
awards granted by the plan were recorded at the date of award based on the market value of shares. Awards are being amortized to expense over the three-year
cliff-vesting period. DNB records compensation expense equal to the value of the shares being amortized. For the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, $61,000 and $121,000 was
amortized to expense. At December 31, 2011, approximately $195,000 in additional compensation will be recognized over the weighted average 
87



 
Table of Contents
remaining
service period of approximately 2.67 years. At December 31, 2011, 177,424 shares were reserved for future grants under the plan. Stock grant activity is indicated below. 
















 
 
Shares
 
Weighted Average
Stock Price
 


 
 


 Non-vested stock awards — January 1, 2010
 
 
24,101
 
$
13.43
 


 Granted
 
 
14,200
 
 
6.93
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(707
)
 
10.55
 


 Vested
 
 
(14,844
)
 
15.81
 


 
 


 Non-vested stock awards — December 31, 2010
 
 
22,750
 
$
7.91
 


 
 


 Granted
 
 
15,000
 
 
10.31
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(4
)
 
9.55
 


 Vested
 
 
(8,546
)
 
9.55
 


 
 


 Non-vested stock awards — December 31, 2011
 
 
 29,200
 
$
8.67
 


 
 




 (15)    COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK  
        In the normal course of business, various commitments and contingent liabilities are outstanding, such as guarantees and commitments to
extend credit, borrow money or act in a fiduciary capacity, which are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Management does not anticipate any significant losses as a result of these
commitments. 
        DNB
had outstanding stand-by letters of credit totaling $4.0 million and unfunded loan and lines of credit commitments totaling $57.7 million at
December 31, 2011, of which, $55.2 million were variable rate and $2.5 million were fixed rate. 
        These
instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amount recognized on the balance sheet. The exposure to credit loss in the event
of non-performance by the party to the financial instrument for commitments to extend credit and stand-by letters of credit is represented by the contractual amount. Management
uses the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for on-balance-sheet instruments. 
        Stand-by
letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by DNB to guarantee the performance or repayment of a financial obligation of a customer to a third party. Those
guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements. The credit risks involved in issuing letters of credit are essentially the same as those involved in extending
loan facilities to customers. DNB holds various forms of collateral to support these commitments. 
        Commitments
to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed
expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. DNB evaluates each customer's creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of
collateral, if any, obtained upon the extension of credit, usually consists of real estate, but may include securities, property or other assets. 
        DNB
maintains borrowing arrangements with correspondent banks and the FHLB of Pittsburgh, as well as access to the discount window at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia to meet
short-term liquidity needs. Through these relationships, DNB has available credit of approximately $184.7 million. 
        Approximately
$45.1 million of assets were held by DNB First Wealth Management in a fiduciary, custody or agency capacity at December 31, 2011. These assets are not assets
of DNB, and are not included in the consolidated financial statements. 
88



 
Table of Contents
        DNB
is a party to a number of lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. While any litigation causes an element of uncertainty, management is of the opinion that the liability,
if any, resulting from the actions, will not have a material effect on the accompanying financial statements. 
 (16)    PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
        Condensed financial information of DNB Financial Corporation (parent company only) follows: 
















Condensed Statements of Financial Condition
 
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash
 
 $
331
 
 $
605
 


 Investment securities
 
 
 12
 
 
 13
 


 Investment in subsidiary
 
 
 60,311
 
 
 54,122
 


 Other assets
 
 
 125
 
 
 130
 


 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
60,779
 
 $
54,870
 


 
 


 Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Junior subordinated debentures
 
 $
9,279
 
 $
9,279
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 444
 
 
 383
 


 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 9,723
 
 
 9,662
 


 
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 51,056
 
 
 45,208
 


 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
 $
60,779
 
 $
54,870
 


 
 




 
















Condensed Statements of Operations
 
Year Ended
December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity in undistributed income of subsidiary
 
 $
2,448
 
 $
4,047
 


 Dividends from subsidiary
 
 
 2,762
 
 
 —
 


 Other income
 
 
 —
 
 
 (3
)


 
 


 Total income
 
 
 5,210
 
 
 4,044
 


 
 


 Expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
 
 308
 
 
 374
 


 Other expenses
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 
 


 Total expense
 
 
 308
 
 
 374
 


 
 


 Net income
 
 $
4,902
 
 $
3,670
 


 
 




89



 
Table of Contents

















Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
 
Year Ended December 31
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Cash Flows From Operating Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 $
4,902
 
 $
3,670
 


 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 in operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Equity in undistributed income of subsidiary
 
 
 (5,210
)
 
 (4,047
)


 Loss on sale of asset
 
 
 —
 
 
 3
 


 Unvested stock amortization
 
 
 80
 
 
 124
 


 Net change in other liabilities
 
 
 —
 
 
 (31
)


 Net change in other assets
 
 
 6
 
 
 6
 


 
 


 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities
 
 
 (222
)
 
 (275
)


 
 


 Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Payments for investments in and advances to subsidiaries
 
 
 (13,077
)
 
 (142
)


 Sale or repayment of investments in and advances to subsidiaries
 
 
 12,839
 
 
 642
 


 Other, net
 
 
 —
 
 
 2
 


 
 


 Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities
 
 
 (238
)
 
 502
 


 
 


 Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Proceeds from issuance of common stock
 
 
 263
 
 
 212
 


 Issuance of preferred stock and warrants
 
 
 12,955
 
 
 —
 


 Repurchase of preferred stock and warrants
 
 
 (12,208
)
 
 —
 


 Dividends paid
 
 
 (824
)
 
 (905
)


 
 


 Net Cash Provided (Used) by Financing Activities
 
 
 186
 
 
 (693
)


 
 


 Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
 
 (274
)
 
 (466
)


 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at Beginning of Period
 
 
 605
 
 
 1,071
 


 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents at End of Period
 
 $
331
 
 $
605
 


 
 




 (17)    REGULATORY MATTERS  
        Recent market conditions have made it difficult or uneconomical to access the capital markets. As a result, the United States Congress,
the Treasury, and the FDIC have announced various programs designed to enhance market liquidity and bank capital. 
        In
response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, on October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") was signed
into law and established the Troubled Assets Relief Program ("TARP") administered by the U.S. Treasury Department ("Treasury"). As part of TARP, the Treasury established the Capital Purchase Program
("CPP") to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and
providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. In connection with EESA, there have been numerous actions by the Federal Reserve Board, Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to
further the economic and banking industry stabilization efforts under EESA. It remains unclear at this time what further legislative and regulatory measures will be implemented under EESA affecting
DNB. 
        On
January 30, 2009, as part of the CPP administered by the United States Department of the Treasury, DNB Financial Corporation entered into a Letter Agreement and a Securities
Purchase Agreement with the U.S. Treasury, pursuant to which DNB issued and sold on January 30, 2009, and the U.S. Treasury purchased for cash on that date (i) 11,750 shares of DNB's
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2008A, par value $10.00 per share, having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per 
90



 
Table of Contents
share
(the "CPP Shares"), and (ii) a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 186,311 shares of DNB's common stock, $1.00 par value, at an exercise price of $9.46 per share, for an
aggregate purchase price of $11,750,000 in cash. This transaction closed on January 30, 2009. The issuance and sale of these securities was a private placement exempt from registration pursuant
to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933. From January 30, 2009 to August 4, 2011, the Bank provided dividends to DNB in connection with the Series 2008A Preferred
Stock.. The Series 2008A Preferred Stock had priority over DNB's common stock with regard to the payment of dividends and liquidation distribution. The Series 2008A Preferred Stock
qualified as Tier 1 capital. DNB paid cumulative dividends at a rate of five percent per annum while these shares were outstanding. Dividends were payable quarterly in arrears and accrued as
earned over the period the Series 2008A Preferred Stock was outstanding. Preferred dividends paid (declared and accrued) and the related accretion was deducted from net income for computing
income available to common stockholders and earnings per share computations. Dividends were payable quarterly on February 15, May 15, August 15, and November 15 of each
year. 
        As
further response to the economic crisis, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"), more commonly known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package, was
signed into law on February 17, 2009, by President Obama. ARRA included a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health,
and education needs. In addition, ARRA imposed certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients until they had repaid the Treasury., 
        On
August 4, 2011, DNB entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with the Secretary of the Treasury, pursuant to which DNB issued and sold to the Treasury 13,000 shares of its
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A ("Series 2011A Preferred Stock"), having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the CPP Shares"), for aggregate
proceeds of $13,000,000. The Securities Purchase Agreement was entered into, and the Series 2011A Preferred Stock was issued, pursuant to the Treasury's Small Business Lending Fund program
("SBLF"), a $30 billion fund established under the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, that encourages lending to small businesses by providing capital to qualified community banks with assets of
less than $10 billion. Of the $13 million in aggregate proceeds, $11,879,000 was used on August 4, 2011 to repurchase all CPP Shares ($11,750,000 was paid in principal and
$128,900 in accrued, unpaid dividends related to the CPP Shares) held by the Treasury as described above. The securities sold in this transaction were exempt from registration under
Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as a transaction by DNB not involving a public offering. 
        On
September 21, 2011, DNB entered into the Warrant Letter Agreement with the Treasury. Pursuant to the Warrant Letter Agreement, DNB Financial Corporation repurchased from the
Treasury the warrant to purchase 186,311 shares of DNB Financial Corporation's common stock issued to Treasury in January 2009 under CPP. DNB Financial Corporation paid a purchase price of $458,000
for the warrant. 
        Under
the Federal Reserve's Regulation H, DNB First, National Association may not, without regulatory approval, declare or pay a dividend to DNB if the total of all dividends
declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) the Bank's net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers
to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. 
        Federal
banking agencies impose three minimum capital requirements—Total risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based and Leverage capital. The
risk-based capital ratios measure the adequacy of a bank's capital against the riskiness of its assets and off-balance sheet activities. Failure to maintain adequate capital is
a basis for "prompt corrective action" or other regulatory enforcement action. In assessing a bank's capital adequacy, regulators also consider other factors such as interest rate risk exposure;
liquidity, funding and market risks; quality and level of earnings; concentrations of credit, quality of loans and investments; risks of any nontraditional activities; effectiveness of bank policies;
and management's overall ability to monitor and control risks. 
91



 
Table of Contents
        Quantitative
measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require DNB to maintain certain minimum amounts and ratios as set forth below. Management believes that DNB and
the Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. The Bank is considered "Well Capitalized" under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as
Well Capitalized, the Bank must maintain minimum ratios as set forth below. There are no conditions or events since the most recent regulatory notification that management believes would have changed
the Bank's category. Actual capital amounts and ratios are presented below. 




























 
 
Actual
 
For Capital
Adequacy
Purposes
 
To Be Well
Capitalized
Under
Prompt
Corrective
Action
Provisions
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 


 
 


 DNB Financial Corporation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total risk-based capital
 
 $
66,716
 
 
15.57
%
$
34,275
 
 
8.00
%
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 Tier 1 risk-based capital
 
 
 61,354
 
 
14.32
 
 
17,138
 
 
4.00
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 Tier 1 (leverage) capital
 
 
 61,354
 
 
10.14
 
 
24,205
 
 
4.00
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 
 


 December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total risk-based capital
 
$
61,653
 
 
14.28
%
$
34,531
 
 
8.00
%
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 Tier 1 risk-based capital
 
 
56,255
 
 
13.03
 
 
17,265
 
 
4.00
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 Tier 1 (leverage) capital
 
 
56,255
 
 
9.25
 
 
24,324
 
 
4.00
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 


 
 


 DNB First, N.A.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 December 31, 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total risk-based capital
 
 $
66,692
 
 
15.58
%
$
34,242
 
 
8.00
%
$
42,803
 
 
10.00
%


 Tier 1 risk-based capital
 
 
 61,330
 
 
14.33
 
 
17,121
 
 
4.00
 
 
25,682
 
 
6.00
 


 Tier 1 (leverage) capital
 
 
 61,330
 
 
10.14
 
 
24,188
 
 
4.00
 
 
30,235
 
 
5.00
 


 
 


 December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total risk-based capital
 
$
61,288
 
 
14.21
%
$
34,497
 
 
8.00
%
$
43,121
 
 
10.00
%


 Tier 1 risk-based capital
 
 
55,890
 
 
12.96
 
 
17,248
 
 
4.00
 
 
25,872
 
 
6.00
 


 Tier 1 (leverage) capital
 
 
55,890
 
 
9.20
 
 
24,306
 
 
4.00
 
 
30,383
 
 
5.00
 


 
 




92




 











Table of Contents 



 
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
Board
of Directors and
Stockholders of DNB Financial Corporation 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of DNB Financial Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Corporation") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Corporation is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal
control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances,
but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of DNB Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. 



Malvern,
Pennsylvania
March 22, 2012 
93




 











Table of Contents 
  
 
Item 9.        Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure     
        None 
  
 
Item 9A.        Controls and Procedures     
        DNB's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have reviewed and evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of December 31, 2011, the end of the period covered by this report, in accordance with the requirements of Exchange Act
Rule 240.13a-15(b). Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have concluded that DNB's current disclosure controls and procedures are
effective and timely, providing them with material information relating to DNB and its subsidiaries required to be disclosed in the report DNB files under the Exchange Act. 
 
 
  Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
        Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Management assessed the
effectiveness of DNB's internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2011. To make this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control — Integrated Framework. Management believes that, as of
December 31, 2011 DNB's internal control over financial reporting was effective. This annual report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of DNB's independent
registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management's report was not subject to attestation by DNB's independent registered public accounting firm
pursuant to the exemption provided to issuers that are not "large accelerated filers" or "accelerated filers". 
  
 
Item 9B.        Other Information     
        None 
 
 
  Part III     
  
 
Item 10.        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant     
        The information required herein with respect to Registrant's directors and officers is incorporated by reference to pages 7-38 of DNB's Proxy
Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and the information required herein with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is incorporated
by reference to page 8 of DNB's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. DNB has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to DNB's principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. DNB's current Code of Ethics is incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 14 to this report. 
  
 
Item 11.        Executive Compensation     
        The information required herein is incorporated by reference to pages 22-26 of DNB's Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. 
94



 
Table of Contents
  
 
Item 12.        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters     
        (a)   Information
Regarding Equity Compensation Plans 
        The
following table summarizes certain information relating to equity compensation plans maintained by DNB as of December 31, 2011: 



















Plan category
 
Number of securities
to be issued
upon exercise of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights
 
Weighted-
average price of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights
 
Number of securities
remaining available
for future issuance
under equity
compensation plans
(excluding securities
reflected in first column)
 


 
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1995 Stock Option Plan
 
 
236,438
 
$
15.98
 
 
156,144
 


 2004 Incentive Equity and Deferred Compensation Plan
 
 
29,200
 
 
8.67
 
 
177,424
 


 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 


 Total
 
 
 265,638
 
$
15.18
 
 
333,568
 


 
 




        (b)   The
balance of the information required herein is incorporated by reference to Page 7 of DNB's Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
  
 
Item 13.        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence     
        The information required herein is incorporated by reference to pages 39-40 of DNB's Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders. 
  
 
Item 14.        Principal Accountant Fees and Services     
        The information required herein is incorporated by reference to page 44 of DNB's Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
95




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  Part IV     
  
 
Item 15.        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.     
        (a)(1) Financial Statements. 
        The
consolidated financial statements listed below, together with an opinion of ParenteBeard LLC dated March 22, 2012 for the year ending December 31, 2011 with
respect thereto, are set forth beginning at page 50 of this report under Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 













 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
 
 


 Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
 
 
 
 


 Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
 


 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity and Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
 


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 
 
 




        (a)(2)    Not
applicable 
        (a)(3)    Exhibits,
pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. 
        The
exhibits listed on the Index to Exhibits on pages 98-102 of this report are incorporated by reference or filed or furnished herewith in response to this Item. 
96




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  SIGNATURES     
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 













 
 
 DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION


 March 22, 2012
 

 
 

 



 
 
 BY:
 
/s/ WILLIAM S. LATOFF

  William S. Latoff, Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer





        Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated. 











/s/ WILLIAM J. HIEB

  William J. Hieb, Director, President and
Chief Risk & Credit Officer
 
March 22, 2012


/s/ GERALD F. SOPP

  Gerald F. Sopp
Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)
 
March 22, 2012


/s/ THOMAS A. FILLIPPO

  Thomas A. Fillippo
Director
 
March 22, 2012


/s/ GERARD F. GRIESSER

  Gerard F. Griesser
Director
 
March 22, 2012


/s/ MILDRED C. JOYNER

  Mildred C. Joyner
Director
 
March 22, 2012


/s/ JAMES J. KOEGEL

  James J. Koegel
Director
 
March 22, 2012


/s/ JAMES H. THORNTON

  James H. Thornton
Director
 
March 22, 2012




97




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
 Index to Exhibits  












Exhibit No.
Under Item 601
of Regulation S-K 
 
 


 
3(i)
 
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended effective December 8, 2008, filed March 31, 2009 as item 3(i) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2008
(No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(ii)
 
Bylaws of the Registrant as amended December 8, 2008, filed March 31, 2009 as item 3(ii) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2008 (No. 1-34242) and
incorporated herein by reference.


 
(iii)
 
Certificate of Designations of Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2008A of DNB Financial Corporation, filed as Exhibit 4.3 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on January 26, 2009
and incorporated herein by reference.


 
4(a)
 
Registrant has certain debt obligations outstanding, for none of which do the instruments defining holders rights authorize an amount of securities in excess of 10% of the total assets of the Registrant
and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Registrant agrees to furnish copies of such agreements to the Commission on request.


 
(b)
 
Form of Preferred Stock Certificate to the United States Department of the Treasury, filed as Exhibit 4.4 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on January 30, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference.


 
(c)
 
Form of Warrant to Purchase Common Stock to the United States Department of the Treasury, filed as Exhibit 4.5 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on January 30, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference.


 
(d)
 
Form of Certificate for 13,000 shares of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A, $10.00 par value per share of DNB Financial Corporation, filed as Exhibit 99.2 to Form 8-K
(No. 1-34242) on August 8, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(e)
 
Certificate of Designation of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 2011A, $10.00 par value per share, filed as Exhibit 99.3 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on August 8, 2011
and incorporated herein by reference.


 
10(a)*
 
Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements dated December 20, 2006 between DNB Financial Corporation and DNB First, N.A. and the following executive officers, each in the form filed
March 26, 2007 as item 10(a) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference: Bruce E. Moroney, C. Tomlinson Kline III, and Richard J. Hartmann.


 
(b)**
 
1995 Stock Option Plan of DNB Financial Corporation (as amended and restated, effective as of April 27, 2004), filed on March 29, 2004 as Appendix A to Registrant's Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Stockholders held April 27, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(c)*
 
Form of waiver signed by William S. Latoff, William J. Hieb, Gerald F. Sopp, Bruce E. Moroney and Albert J. Melfi, Jr., each dated January 30, 2009, with respect to U.S. Treasury TARP Capital Purchase
Program, filed as Exhibit 4.6 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on January 30, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.




98



 
Table of Contents












 
(d)**
 
DNB Financial Corporation Incentive Equity and Deferred Compensation Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective May 5, 2009), filed March 31, 2009 as Appendix A to Registrant's definitive proxy
statement on Schedule 14-A (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(e)*
 
Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement among DNB Financial Corporation, DNB First, N.A. and William S. Latoff, dated December 20, 2006, filed March 26, 2007 as item 10(e) to
Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(f)*
 
Agreement of Lease dated February 10, 2005 between Headwaters Associates, a Pennsylvania general partnership, as Lessor, and DNB First, National Association as Lessee for a portion of premises at 2
North Church Street, West Chester, Pennsylvania, filed March 10, 2005 as Item 10(l) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference, as amended by Addendum to
Agreement of Lease dated as of November 15, 2005, filed March 23, 2006 as Item 10(l) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference, and as further amended by
Second Addendum to Agreement of Lease dated as of May 25, 2006, filed August 14, 2006 as Item 10(l) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference, and as
further amended by Third Addendum to Agreement of Lease dated as of June 9, 2010, filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(f) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by
reference.


 
(g)**
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement for grants prior to 2005 under the Registrant's Stock Option Plan, filed May 11, 2005 as Item 10(n) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31,
2005 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(h)**
 
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for April 18, 2005 and subsequent grants prior to April 23, 2010 under the Stock Option Plan, filed May 11, 2005 as Item 10(o) to
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(i)
 
Agreement of Sale dated June 1, 2005 between DNB First, National Association (the "Bank"), as seller, and Papermill Brandywine Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company, as buyer
("Buyer") with respect to the sale of the Bank's operations center and an adjunct administrative office (the "Property") and accompanying (i) Agreement of Lease between the Buyer as landlord and the Bank as tenant, pursuant to which the Property
will be leased back to the Bank, and (ii) Parking Easement Agreement to provide cross easements with respect to the Property, the Buyer's other adjoining property and the Bank's other adjoining property, filed August 15, 2005 as
Item 10(p) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2005 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(j)
 
Agreement of Lease dated November 18, 2005 between Papermill Brandywine Company, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company ("Papermill"), as Lessor, and DNB First, National Association as
Lessee for the banks operations center and adjunct administrative office, filed March 23, 2006 as Item 10(q) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by
reference.




99



 
Table of Contents












 
(k)*
 
Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreement among DNB Financial Corporation, DNB First, N.A. and William J. Hieb, filed May 15, 2007 as Item 10(l) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended March 31, 2007 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(l)**
 
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for grants on and after December 22, 2005 and prior to April 23, 2010 under the Stock Option Plan, filed March 23, 2006 as Item 10(s) to
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(m)*
 
Deferred Compensation Plan For Directors of DNB Financial Corporation (adopted effective October 1, 2006), filed November 14, 2006 as Item 10(s) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended September 30, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(n)*
 
DNB Financial Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (adopted effective October 1, 2006), filed November 14, 2006 as Item 10(t) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
September 30, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(o)*
 
Trust Agreement, effective as of October 1, 2006, between DNB Financial Corporation and DNB First, National Association (Deferred Compensation Plan), filed November 14, 2006 as Item 10(u) to
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(p)*
 
Change of Control Agreements among DNB Financial Corporation, DNB First, N.A. and each of the following executive officers, each in the form filed March 26, 2007 as item 10(q) to Form 10-K
for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference: Albert J. Melfi, Jr. and Gerald F. Sopp.


 
(q)*
 
DNB Financial Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for William S. Latoff as amended and restated effective April 1, 2007, filed May 15, 2007 as Item 10(r) to Form 10-Q for
the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference, as further amended by Amendment dated December 8, 2008, filed March 31, 2009 as item 3(r) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended
December 31, 2008 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(r)*
 
Trust Agreement effective as of December 20, 2006 between DNB Financial Corporation and DNB First, N.A. (William S. Latoff SERP), filed March 26, 2007 as item 10(s) to Form 10-K for the
fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference, as modified by Agreement to Terminate Trust dated as of April 1, 2007, filed May 15, 2007 as Item 10(s) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal
quarter ended March 31, 2007 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(s)*
 
DNB Offer Letter to Albert J. Melfi, Jr., dated November 10, 2006, filed March 26, 2005 as item 10(t) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 (No. 1-34242)
and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(t)*
 
DNB Offer Letter to Gerald F. Sopp, dated December 20, 2006, filed March 26, 2007 as item 10(u) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2006 (No. 1-34242) and
incorporated herein by reference.


 
(u)**
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated November, 28, 2007, filed March 28, 2008 as item 10(v) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2007 (No. 1-34242) and
incorporated herein by reference.




100



 
Table of Contents












 
(v)*
 
Amendments dated December 16, 2009 to Change of Control Agreements among DNB Financial Corporation, DNB First, N.A. and William S. Latoff, William J. Hieb, Albert J. Melfi, Richard J. Hartman, Gerald
F. Sopp and Bruce E. Moroney with respect to compliance with certain provisions of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA"), the American Recovery Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA") and the provisions of the Interim Final Rule on
"TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance" published by the United States Treasury Department ("UST") on June 15, 2009, filed March 26, 2010 as item 10(w) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2009 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(w)**
 
Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated April 23, 2010 between DNB Financial Corporation and William S. Latoff, filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(x) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(x)**
 
Form of Restricted Stock Option Agreement for non-employee directors for awards made on and after April 23, 2010 pursuant to the 1995 Stock Option Plan of DNB Financial Corporation (as amended and
restated, effective as of April 27, 2004), filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(y) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(y)**
 
Form of Restricted Stock Option Agreement for employees for awards made on and after April 23, 2010 pursuant to the 1995 Stock Option Plan of DNB Financial Corporation (as amended and restated,
effective as of April 27, 2004), filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(z) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(z)**
 
Form of Amendment effective April 23, 2010, to the Restricted Stock Award agreements made between James H. Thornton, James J. Koegel, Mildred C. Joyner and Thomas A. Fillippo, non-employee Directors
of the registrant, and the registrant on November 28, 2007 and December 17, 2008, filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(aa) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by
reference.


 
(aa)**
 
Form of Amendment effective April 23, 2010, to the Restricted Stock Award agreements made between Eli Silberman, a non-employee Director of the registrant, and the registrant on November 28, 2007
and December 17, 2008, filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(bb) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(bb)**
 
Form of Amendment effective April 23, 2010, to the Restricted Stock Award agreements made between William S. Latoff, William J. Hieb, Albert J. Melfi, Gerald F. Sopp and Bruce E. Moroney, officers of
the registrant, and the registrant on November 28, 2007 and December 17, 2008, filed August 13, 2010 as Item 10(cc) to Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010 (No. 1-34242) and incorporated herein by
reference.


 
(cc)
 
Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of August 4, 2011, between the Secretary of the Treasury and DNB Financial Corporation, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on
August 8, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(dd)
 
Letter Agreement dated August 4, 2011 between the Secretary of the Treasury and DNB Financial Corporation, filed as Exhibit 99.4 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on August 8, 2011 and
incorporated herein by reference.




101



 
Table of Contents












 
(ee)
 
Warrant Letter Agreement, dated September 21, 2011, between DNB Financial Corporation and the Secretary of the Treasury, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on
September 22, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference.


 
(ff)*
 
Form of Amendment to Change of Control Agreement For Named Executive Officers, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K (No. 1-34242) on October 28, 2011 and incorporated herein by
reference.


 
(gg)**
 
Restricted Stock Award Agreement dated December 12, 2011 between DNB Financial Corporation and William S. Latoff, filed as Item 99.1 to Form 8-K/A (No. 1-34242) on January 6, 2012
and incorporated herein by reference.


 
11
 
Registrant's Statement of Computation of Earnings Per Share is set forth in Footnote 12 to Registrant's consolidated financial statements at page 81 of this Form 10-K and is incorporated
herein by reference.


 
14
 
Code of Ethics as amended and restated effective February 23, 2005, filed March 10, 2005 as Item 10(m) to Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 (No. 1-34242)
and incorporated herein by reference.


 
21
 
List of Subsidiaries, filed herewith


 
23
 
Consent of ParenteBeard LLC, filed herewith.


 
31.1
 
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14 (a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer, filed herewith.


 
31.2
 
Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14 (a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer, filed herewith.


 
32.1
 
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer, filed herewith.


 
32.2
 
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer, filed herewith.


 
99.1
 
Certification Pursuant to 12 C.F.R. 30.7(A)


 
101.INS
 
XBRL Instance Document


 
101.SCH
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document


 
101.CAL
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document


 
101.LAB
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document


 
101.PRE
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document


 
101.DEF
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document








*Management
contract or compensatory plan arrangement.
**Stockholder
approved compensatory plan pursuant to which DNB's Common Stock may be issued to employees of DNB. 

102















Table of Contents 




















 DNB FINANCIAL CORPORATION
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
4 Brandywine Avenue
Downingtown, PA 19335
Tel. 610-269-1040 Fax 484-359-3176
Internet http://www.dnbfirst.com FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Investors, brokers, security analysts and
others desiring financial information
should contact Gerald F. Sopp at
484-359-3143 or gsopp@dnbfirst.com INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM
ParenteBeard LLC
1200 Atwater Drive, Suite 225
Malvern, PA 19355 COUNSEL
Stradley, Ronon, Stevens and
Young, LLP
30 Valley Stream Parkway
Malvern, PA 19355 REGISTRAR AND STOCK
TRANSFER AGENT
Registrar and Transfer Company
10 Commerce Drive
Cranford, NJ 07016
800-368-5948
www.rtco.com MARKET MAKERS
Boenning & Scattergood, Inc.
800-842-8928
Janney Montgomery Scott, Inc.
800-526-6397
Raymond James Financial, Inc.
800-800-4693

 




 
 



 DIRECTORS
William S. Latoff
Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer
Thomas A. Fillippo, Sr.
William J. Hieb
Gerard F. Griesser
Mildred C. Joyner
James J. Koegel
James H. Thornton DIRECTORS EMERITUS
Robert J. Charles
Vernon J. Jameson
Eli Silberman
Henry F. Thorne
 




 
 



  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
William S. Latoff
Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer
William J. Hieb
President and Chief Risk & Credit
Officer
Albert J. Melfi, Jr.
Executive Vice President
Chief Lending Officer
Bruce E. Moroney
Executive Vice President
Chief Accounting Officer
Gerald F. Sopp
Executive Vice President
Chief Financial Officer & Secretary



















Table of Contents 













