
10-K
1
d260760d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, DC 20549 
FORM 10-K 
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
Commission file number 001-09718  THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as
specified in its charter)   












 
 
 Pennsylvania
 
 
  
 25-1435979
 
 


 
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 

  
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 

 One PNC Plaza  249 Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707
 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code - (412) 762-2000  
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 








Title of Each Class
 
 
 
   Name of Each Exchange     on Which Registered    

 Common Stock, par value $5.00
 

 
New York Stock Exchange

 Depositary Shares Each Representing 1/4000 Interest in a Share of 9.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series L, par value $1.00
 

 
New York Stock Exchange

 12.000% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (issued by National City Preferred
Capital Trust I)
 

 
New York Stock Exchange

 6.625% Trust Preferred Securities (issued by National City Capital Trust III)
 

 
New York Stock Exchange

 8.000% Trust Preferred Securities (issued by National City Capital Trust IV)
 

 
New York Stock Exchange

 6.125% Capital Securities (issued by PNC Capital Trust D)
 

 
New York Stock Exchange


7 3/4%
Trust Preferred Securities (issued by PNC Capital Trust E)
 

 
New York Stock Exchange

 Warrants (expiring December 31, 2018) to purchase Common Stock
 

 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
$1.80 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock - Series B, par value $1.00  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes X No      
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
     No X  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to
be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days. Yes X No       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes X No       Indicate by
check mark if the disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated
by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. X  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   










Large accelerated filer X
 
Accelerated filer     
 
Non-accelerated filer     
 
Smaller reporting company     
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes
     No X   The aggregate market value of the registrant’s outstanding voting common stock held
by nonaffiliates on June 30, 2011, determined using the per share closing price on that date on the New York Stock Exchange of $59.61, was approximately $31.3 billion. There is no non-voting common equity of the registrant outstanding.
 Number of shares of registrant’s common stock outstanding at February 17, 2012: 527,568,487 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders (Proxy Statement) are incorporated
by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. 


Table of Contents

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










PART I 
 
 
  
  Page  
 

 Item 1
 
 Business.
  
 
2
  

 Item 1A
 
 Risk Factors.
  
 
11
  

 Item 1B
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments.
  
 
23
  

 Item 2
 
 Properties.
  
 
23
  

 Item 3
 
 Legal Proceedings.
  
 
23
  

 Item 4
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures.
  
 
23
  

 Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
24
  

 Directors of the Registrant
  
 
25
  




 PART II 
 



 Item 5
 
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.

  
 
25
  


 
 Common Stock Performance Graph
  
 
26
  

 Item 6
 
 Selected Financial Data.
  
 
27
  

 Item 7
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
29
  

 Item 7A
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
  
 
101
  

 Item 8
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
  
 
101
  

 Item 9
 
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure.
  
 
212
  

 Item 9A
 
 Controls and Procedures.
  
 
212
  

 Item 9B
 
 Other Information.
  
 
212
  




 PART III 
  








 Item 10
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.
  
 
212
  

 Item 11
 
 Executive Compensation.
  
 
213
  

 Item 12
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters.
  
 
213
  

 Item 13
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.
  
 
215
  

 Item 14
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services.
  
 
215
  





 PART IV
 

  




 Item 15
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules. 
  
 
215
  

 SIGNATURES
  
 
216
  

 EXHIBIT INDEX
  
 
E-1
  
 PART I  Forward-Looking Statements: From time to time, The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (PNC or the Corporation) has made and may continue to make written or oral forward-looking statements regarding our
outlook for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels and ratios, liquidity levels, asset levels, asset quality and other matters regarding or affecting PNC and its future business and operations or the impact of legal, regulatory or supervisory
matters on our business operations or performance. This Annual Report on Form 10-K (the Report or Form 10-K) also includes forward-looking statements. With respect to all such forward-looking statements, you should review our Risk Factors discussion
in Item 1A, our Risk Management, Critical Accounting Estimates And Judgments, and Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information sections included in Item 7, and Note 22 Legal Proceedings and Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees
in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.

ITEM 1 – BUSINESS 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW   Headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we are one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States. We have businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and
institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of our products and services nationally and others in our primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland,
Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Missouri, Wisconsin and Georgia. We also provide certain products and services internationally. At December 31, 2011, our consolidated total assets, deposits and total
shareholders’ equity were $271.2 billion, $188.0 billion and $34.1 billion, respectively.  We were incorporated under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1983 with the consolidation of Pittsburgh National Corporation and Provident National Corporation. Since 1983, we have diversified our geographical presence, business mix and product capabilities through internal
growth, strategic bank and non-bank acquisitions and equity investments, and the formation of various non-banking subsidiaries. 
PENDING ACQUISITION OF RBC BANK (USA) 
On June 19, 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement with Royal Bank of Canada and RBC USA Holdco Corporation to acquire RBC Bank (USA), the US
retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada, for $3.45 billion. The purchase price is subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments based on the closing date tangible net asset value of RBC Bank (USA), as defined in the definitive
agreement. RBC Bank (USA) has approximately $25 billion in “proforma” assets as reflected in the definitive agreement to be included in the transaction and more than 400 branches in North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and
South Carolina. The transaction is expected to close in March 2012, subject to remaining customary closing conditions. 
FLAGSTAR BRANCH ACQUISITION  Effective December 9, 2011, PNC acquired 27 branches in the northern metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia area from Flagstar Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. We assumed approximately $210
million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction.  BANKATLANTIC
BRANCH ACQUISITION  Effective June 6, 2011, PNC acquired 19 branches in the greater Tampa, Florida area
from BankAtlantic, a subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. We assumed approximately $324 million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction.  REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS  In
addition to the following information relating to our lines of business, we incorporate the information under the captions
 
 
2    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


Business Segment Highlights, Product Revenue, and Business Segments Review in Item 7 of this Report here by reference. Also, we include the financial and other information by business in
Note 25 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report here by reference.  Assets, revenue
and earnings attributable to foreign activities were not material in the periods presented. Business segment results for periods prior to 2011 have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and current business and management structure and
to present those periods on the same basis. Business segment information does not include PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS). Results of operations of GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related after-tax gain on its sale in the third
quarter of 2010 are reflected in discontinued operations.  Retail Banking provides deposit, lending, brokerage, investment
management, and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and online banking channels. The branch network is
principally located in our primary geographical markets.  Our core strategy is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary
checking and transaction relationships with PNC. We also seek revenue growth by deepening our share of our customers’ financial assets, including savings and liquidity deposits, loans and investable assets. A key element of our strategy is to
expand the use of lower-cost alternative distribution channels while continuing to optimize the traditional branch network. In addition, we have a disciplined process to continually improve the engagement of both our employees and customers, which
is a strong indicator of customer growth, retention and relationship expansion.  Corporate & Institutional Banking
provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured
loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital
markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to middle-market companies, our multi-seller conduit, securities underwriting, and securities
sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking
provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.

Corporate & Institutional Banking is focused on becoming a premier provider of financial services
in each of the markets it serves. The value proposition to its customers is driven by providing a broad range of competitive and high quality products and services by a team fully committed to delivering the comprehensive resources of PNC to help
each client succeed. Corporate & Institutional Banking’s primary goals are to achieve market share growth and enhanced returns by means of expansion and retention of customer relationships and prudent risk and expense management.
 Asset Management Group includes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and
institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services include financial and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for individuals
and their families. Institutional asset management provides investment management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments located
primarily in our geographic footprint.  Asset Management Group is focused on being one of the premier bank-held individual and institutional
asset managers in each of the markets it serves. The business seeks to deliver high quality advice and investment management to our high net worth, ultra high net worth and institutional client sectors through a broad array of products and services.
Asset Management Group’s primary goals are to service its clients, grow its business and deliver solid financial performance with prudent risk and expense management.  Residential Mortgage Banking directly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant presence within the retail banking footprint, and
also originates loans through majority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to government agency and/or third-party standards, and sold,
servicing retained, to secondary mortgage conduits Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the Government
National Mortgage Association (GNMA) program, as described in more detail in Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in Item 8 of this Report and included here by reference. The mortgage servicing operation
performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans – primarily those in first lien position – for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loans originated through majority owned affiliates are sold to others.
 Residential Mortgage Banking is focused on adding value to the PNC franchise by building stronger customer relationships, providing quality
investment loans, and  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    3 


Table of Contents


delivering acceptable returns under a moderate risk profile. Our national distribution capability provides volume that drives economies of scale, risk dispersion, and cost-effective extension of
the retail banking footprint for cross-selling opportunities.  BlackRock is a leader in investment
management, risk management and advisory services for institutional and retail clients worldwide. BlackRock provides diversified investment management services to institutional clients, intermediary and individual investors through various
investment vehicles. Investment management services primarily consist of the management of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative investment and cash management products. BlackRock offers its investment products in a variety of
vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds, iShares® exchange-traded funds
(“ETFs”), collective investment trusts and separate accounts. In addition, BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of clients. Financial markets
advisory services include valuation services relating to illiquid securities, dispositions and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution. 
We hold an equity investment in BlackRock. Our investment in BlackRock is a key component of our diversified revenue strategy. BlackRock’s ability
to increase revenue, earnings and shareholder value over time is predicated on its ability to generate new business in investment management and BlackRock Solutions products and services. New business efforts are dependent on BlackRock’s
ability to achieve clients’ investment objectives in a manner consistent with their risk preferences and to deliver excellent client service. All of these efforts require the commitment and contributions of BlackRock employees. Accordingly, the
ability to attract and retain talented professionals is critical to BlackRock’s long-term success.  Non-Strategic Assets
Portfolio (formerly, Distressed Assets Portfolio) includes commercial residential development loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans, retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. We
obtained the majority of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies, and they fall outside of our core business strategy.  SUBSIDIARIES  Our corporate legal structure at December 31, 2011
consisted of one domestic subsidiary bank, including its subsidiaries, and approximately 122 active non-bank subsidiaries. Our bank subsidiary is PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.), headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. For
additional information on our subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 to this Report. 
 

STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK
HOLDING COMPANIES  The following statistical information is included on the indicated pages of this Report
and is incorporated herein by reference:   






   
 
Form 10-K page

 Average Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis
 
208

 Analysis Of Year-To-Year ChangesIn Net Interest Income
 
207

 Book Values Of Securities
 
41 – 44
and 142 – 148

 Maturities And Weighted-Average Yield Of Securities
 
147

 Loan Types
 
38 – 40
127 and 209

 Selected Loan Maturities And Interest Sensitivity
 
211

 Nonaccrual, Past Due And Restructured Loans And Other Nonperforming Assets
 
73 – 81
113 – 114 127 –136 and 209 – 210

 Potential Problem Loans And Loans Held For Sale
 
45 and 74 – 83

 Summary Of Loan Loss Experience
 
81 – 83, 127 – 140and 210

 Assignment Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses
 
81 – 83 and 211

 Average Amount And Average Rate Paid On Deposits
 
208

 Time Deposits Of $100,000 Or More
 
162 and 211

 Selected Consolidated Financial Data
 
27 – 28

 Short-term borrowings – not included as average balances during 2011, 2010 and 2009
were less than 30% of total shareholders’ equity at the end of each period.
 
 
   
 
4    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

EUROPEAN EXPOSURE 
As of December 31, 2011, our loans, leases, securities, derivatives, letters of credit, unfunded contractual commitments and other direct financial
exposure (“exposure”) with European entities totaled $2.1 billion of which $1.6 billion or .59% of our total assets represent outstanding balances. European entities are defined as supranational, sovereign, financial institutions and
non-financial entities within the countries that comprise the European Union, European Union candidate countries and other European countries. Of the $2.1 billion in direct financial exposure, $357 million are securities issued by AAA-rated
sovereigns, $625 million represents cross-border leases in support of national infrastructure and supported by letters of credit having trigger mechanisms that require collateral in the form of cash or United States Treasury securities, and $440
million of unfunded contractual commitments primarily to United Kingdom local office commitments for Business Credit corporate customers on a secured basis. There was no individual country where the exposure was greater than .75% of total assets.
 We also track other European financial exposures where PNC is appointed as a fronting bank by our clients and we elect to assume the joint
probability of default risk. For PNC to incur a loss in these types of indirect exposures, the obligor and the financial counterparty participating bank would need to default. As of December 31, 2011, PNC had $2.0 billion of indirect exposure where
PNC is the fronting bank.  Foreign exposure underwriting and approvals are centralized. Country exposures are monitored and reported on a
regular basis. We actively monitor sovereign risk, banking system health, and market conditions and adjust limits as appropriate. We rely on information from internal and external sources including international financial institutions, economists
and analysts, industry trade organizations, rating agencies, econometric data analytical service providers, and geopolitical news analysis services.  Among the regions and nations that PNC monitors, we have identified eight countries for which we are more closely monitoring their economic and financial situation. The basis for the increased monitoring
includes, but is not limited to, sovereign debt burden, near term financing risk, political instability, GDP trends, balance of payments, market confidence, banking system distress and/or holdings of stressed sovereign debt. The countries identified
are: Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain (collectively “GIIPS”), Belgium, France and Turkey. Direct and indirect exposure to entities in the GIIPS countries totaled $181 million as of December 31, 2011 of which $118 million is direct
exposure in the form of cross-border leases within Portugal and indirect exposure primarily composed of $48 million from letters of credit with strong underlying obligors and $15 million of unfunded commitments to Spain. Direct and indirect exposure
to entities in Belgium, France, and Turkey totaled $924 million as of December 31, 2011 of which, there is direct exposure of $75 million in the form of cross-border leases


within Belgium, and $11 million of 90% Overseas Private Investment Corporation (“OPIC”) guaranteed Turkish loans and indirect exposure primarily composed of $770 million in letters of
credit with strong underlying obligors in France and Belgium.  SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
 OVERVIEW  PNC is a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act) and a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLB Act). 
We are subject to numerous governmental regulations, some of which are highlighted below. You should also read Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, included here by reference, for additional information regarding our regulatory matters. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our permissible activities and investments and require
compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, investment management and other customers, among other things. They also restrict our ability to repurchase stock or pay dividends, or to receive dividends from bank subsidiaries,
and impose capital adequacy requirements. The consequences of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions.  In
addition, we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by, among other regulatory bodies, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), which results in
examination reports and ratings (which are not publicly available) that can impact the conduct and growth of our businesses. These examinations consider not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but also capital levels, asset quality
and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. The results of examination activity by any of our federal bank regulators potentially can result in the imposition of significant limitations on our
activities and growth. These regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on the operations of a regulated entity where the relevant agency determines, among other things, that such operations are
conducted in an unsafe or unsound manner, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent with the regulations or supervisory policies of the agency. This supervisory framework could materially impact the conduct, growth and
profitability of our operations.  We also are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by virtue of our status as
a public company and by the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) due to the nature of some of our businesses. Our banking and securities businesses with operations outside the United States, including those conducted by BlackRock,
are also subject to regulation by  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    5 


Table of Contents


appropriate authorities in the foreign jurisdictions in which they do business. 
Effective as of July 21, 2011, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), a new agency established by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), assumed responsibility for examining PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates (including PNC) for compliance with consumer financial protection laws and enforcing such laws with respect to PNC Bank, N.A. and its
affiliates. This authority previously was exercised by the OCC and Federal Reserve. Starting July 21, 2011, the CFPB also assumed authority for prescribing rules governing the provision of consumer financial products and services such as credit
cards, student and other loans, deposits and residential mortgages. After this date, the subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A. are generally subject to state consumer protection laws. Additionally, new provisions concerning the applicability of state
consumer protection laws to national banks became effective on July 21, 2011. Questions may arise as to whether certain state consumer financial laws may be preempted with respect to PNC Bank, N.A. after this date. We expect to experience an
increase in regulation of our retail banking business and additional compliance obligations, revenue and costs impacts.  As a regulated
financial services firm, our relationships and good standing with regulators are of fundamental importance to the operation and growth of our businesses. The Federal Reserve, OCC, SEC, and other domestic and foreign regulators have broad enforcement
powers, and powers to approve, deny, or refuse to act upon our applications or notices to conduct new activities, acquire or divest businesses or assets and deposits, or reconfigure existing operations. Dodd-Frank provides the CFPB with broad
enforcement powers over PNC Bank, N.A. and its affiliates with respect to compliance with consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB also has the ability to issue rules that affect a wide range of the consumer financial products and services that
we provide.  We anticipate new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, focused specifically on banking and other
financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives would be in addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), the American Recovery and Reinvestment
Act of 2009 (Recovery Act), the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (Credit CARD Act), the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act (the SAFE Act), and Dodd-Frank, as well as changes to the regulations
implementing the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, including the new rules set forth in Regulation E related to overdraft charges.

Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, comprehensively reforms the regulation of
financial institutions, products and services. Dodd-Frank requires various federal regulatory agencies to implement numerous rules and regulations. Because the federal agencies are granted broad discretion in drafting these rules and regulations,
and many implementing rules either have not yet been issued or have only been issued in proposed form, many of the details and much of the impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for many months or years. Among other things, Dodd-Frank provides for
new capital standards that eliminate the treatment of trust preferred securities as Tier 1 regulatory capital; requires that deposit insurance assessments be calculated based on an insured depository institution’s assets rather than its insured
deposits, and raises the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (the balance in the Deposit Insurance Fund divided by estimated insured deposits) to 1.35%; establishes a comprehensive regulatory regime for the derivatives activities of financial
institutions; limits proprietary trading and owning or sponsoring hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities; requires the Federal Reserve to establish a variety of enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies with $50
billion or more in total assets; places limitations on the interchange fees we can charge for debit card transactions; and establishes new minimum mortgage underwriting standards for residential mortgages. 
Legislative and regulatory developments to date, as well as those that come in the future, have had and are likely to continue to have an impact on the
conduct of our business. The more detailed description of the significant regulations to which we are subject included in this Report is based on the current regulatory environment and is subject to potentially material change. See also the
additional information included in Item 1A of this Report under the risk factors discussing the impact of financial regulatory reform initiatives, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it, on the regulatory environment
for the financial services industry. Among other areas that have been receiving a high level of regulatory focus over the last several years are compliance with anti-money laundering laws and the protection of confidential customer information. In
addition, at least in part driven by the current economic and financial situation, there is an increased focus on fair lending and other issues related to the mortgage industry. Ongoing mortgage-related regulatory reforms include measures aimed at
reducing mortgage foreclosures.  Additional legislation, changes in rules promulgated by the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the CFPB, the SEC, the CFTC, other federal and state regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules may directly affect the method of
operation and profitability of our businesses. The profitability of our businesses could also be affected by rules and regulations that impact the business and financial communities
 
 
6    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

There are numerous rules governing the regulation of financial services institutions and their holding
companies. Accordingly, the following discussion is general in nature and does not purport to be complete or to describe all of the laws and regulations that apply to us. To a substantial extent, the purpose of the regulation and supervision of
financial services institutions and their holding companies is not to protect our shareholders and our non-customer creditors, but rather to protect our customers (including depositors) and the financial markets in general. 
BANKING REGULATION AND SUPERVISION  
On November 22, 2011, the Federal Reserve adopted a final rule implementing an annual capital plan review process for domestic bank holding companies
(BHCs) that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. In addition, on that date, the Federal Reserve launched its annual review process, referred to as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR), for 2012. In connection with
the 2012 CCAR, and as part of the annual capital planning process in future years, the Federal Reserve will undertake a supervisory assessment of the capital adequacy of the BHCs, including PNC, that have $50 billion or more in total consolidated
assets. This capital adequacy assessment will be based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted by each participating BHC to the Federal Reserve. In connection with the 2012 CCAR, PNC filed its capital plan with the Federal Reserve on
January 9, 2012.  The Federal Reserve will evaluate PNC’s capital plan based on PNC’s risk profile and the strength of
PNC’s internal capital assessment process under the regulatory capital standards currently applicable and in accordance with PNC’s plans to address proposed revisions to the regulatory capital framework developed by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision (Basel III) and as set forth in relevant provisions of Dodd-Frank. The Federal Reserve’s evaluation will take into consideration any capital distribution plans, such as plans to pay or increase common stock dividends or to
reinstate or increase common stock repurchase programs. In conducting this analysis, the Federal Reserve will consider the projected capital adequacy and performance of PNC under base case and adverse economic scenarios developed by both PNC and the
Federal Reserve. After completing its review, the Federal Reserve may object or not object to the firm’s proposed capital actions. The Federal Reserve has stated that, after completion of the 2012 CCAR exercise, it expects to publish the
Federal Reserve’s estimates of certain capital, revenue and loss information under the Federal Reserve’s own supervisory stress scenario for each of the largest 19 BHCs participating in the 2012 reviews, including PNC. 
PNC expects to receive the Federal Reserve’s response (either a non-objection or objection) to the capital plan submitted as part of the 2012 CCAR
by the end of the first quarter 2012. The Basel III capital framework has yet to be finalized by the Federal banking agencies and is therefore subject to further


change. Using management’s assumptions relevant to calculation of ratios under Basel III, PNC expects its proforma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III to reach about 8.0 to 8.5 percent
during 2013. This estimate is based on available data and information as of December 31, 2011 and on the phase-in of Basel III rules. It also represents our assumptions and interpretations regarding the Basel II advanced measurement approaches
regarding the calculation of risk-weighted assets related to credit, operational and market risk. Both our Basel II and Basel III estimates are point in time estimates and will be subject to both further regulatory guidance and clarity, and the
refinement of internal estimates and methodologies.  As a result of Dodd-Frank, subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A. will be subject to state law
and regulation to the same extent as if they were not subsidiaries of a national bank. Additionally, based on Dodd-Frank, state authorities may assert that certain state consumer financial laws that provide different requirements or limitations than
Federal law may apply to national banks, including PNC Bank, N.A. Such state laws may be preempted if they meet certain standards set forth in Dodd-Frank or other applicable law.  Dodd-Frank established the 10-member inter-agency Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is charged with identifying systemic risks and strengthening the regulation of in general, including
changes to the laws governing taxation, antitrust regulation and electronic commerce. financial holding companies and certain non-bank companies deemed to be “systemically important” and could, in extraordinary cases and in conjunction
with the Federal Reserve, break up financial firms that are deemed to be “too big to fail.” Dodd-Frank also requires the Federal Reserve to establish prudential standards for bank holding companies with total consolidated assets equal to
or greater than $50 billion that are more stringent than the standards and requirements applicable to bank holding companies with assets below this threshold, and that increase in stringency for bank holding companies that present heightened risk to
the financial system. Additional information concerning these enhanced prudential standards is provided in Item 1A of this Report. The FSOC may make recommendations to the Federal Reserve concerning the establishment and refinement of these
prudential standards and reporting and disclosure requirements.  Because of PNC’s ownership interest in BlackRock, BlackRock is subject
to the supervision and regulation of the Federal Reserve.  Parent Company Liquidity and Dividends. The principal source of our
liquidity at the parent company level is dividends from PNC Bank, N.A. PNC Bank, N.A. is subject to various federal restrictions on its ability to pay dividends to PNC Bancorp, Inc., its direct parent. PNC Bank, N.A. is also subject to federal laws
limiting extensions of credit to its parent holding company and non-bank affiliates as discussed
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    7 


Table of Contents


in Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Further information on bank level
liquidity and parent company liquidity and on certain contractual restrictions is also available in “Liquidity Risk Management” in the Risk Management section and “Trust Preferred Securities” in the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
and VIEs section of Item 7 of this Report, and in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
Under Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company is expected to serve as a source of financial strength to its subsidiary banks and to commit
resources to support such banks. Consistent with the “source of strength” policy for subsidiary banks, the Federal Reserve has stated that, as a matter of prudent banking, a bank holding company generally should not maintain a rate of cash
dividends unless its net income available to common shareholders has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears to be consistent with the corporation’s capital needs, asset quality and
overall financial condition. Further, in providing guidance to the large BHCs participating in the 2012 CCAR, discussed above, the Federal Reserve stated that it expects plans submitted in 2012 will reflect conservative dividend payout ratios and
net share repurchase programs, and that requests that imply common dividend payout ratios above 30% of projected after-tax net income available to common shareholders will receive particularly close scrutiny. The Federal Reserve stated that it
expects BHCs that meet the minimum capital ratio requirements under Basel III during the transition periods provided by Basel III, but that do not meet the fully-phased in Basel III ratio of 7 percent Tier 1 common equity (plus any applicable
capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks), to maintain prudent earnings retention policies with a view to meeting the fully-phased in requirement as soon as reasonably possible. 
Additional Powers Under the GLB Act. The Gramm – Leach – Bliley Act (GLB Act) permits a qualifying bank holding company to become
a “financial holding company” and thereby engage in, or affiliate with financial companies engaging in, a broader range of activities than would otherwise be permitted for a bank holding company. Permitted affiliates include securities
underwriters and dealers, insurance companies and companies engaged in other activities that are determined by the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, to be “financial in nature or incidental thereto” or
are determined by the Federal Reserve unilaterally to be “complementary” to financial activities. We became a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000. In order to be and remain a financial holding company, a bank holding
company and its subsidiary depository institutions must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” In addition, a


financial holding company generally may not engage in a new financial activity if any of its insured depository institutions received a less than Satisfactory rating at its most recent evaluation
under the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).  The Federal Reserve is the “umbrella” regulator of a financial holding company, with
its operating entities, such as its subsidiary broker-dealers, investment managers, investment companies, insurance companies and banks, also subject to the jurisdiction of various federal and state “functional” regulators with normal
regulatory responsibility for companies in their lines of business.  As subsidiaries of a financial holding company under the GLB Act, our
non-bank subsidiaries are generally allowed to conduct new financial activities, and PNC is generally permitted to acquire non-bank financial companies that have less than $10 billion in assets, with after-the-fact notice to the Federal Reserve. In
addition, our non-bank subsidiaries (and any financial subsidiaries of subsidiary banks) are permitted to engage in certain activities that were not permitted for bank holding companies and banks prior to enactment of the GLB Act, and to engage on
less restrictive terms in certain activities that were previously permitted. Among other activities, we currently rely on our status as a financial holding company to conduct merchant banking activities and securities underwriting and dealing
activities. In addition, the GLB Act permits national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., to engage in expanded activities through the formation of a “financial subsidiary.” PNC Bank, N.A. has filed a financial subsidiary certification with the
OCC and currently engages in insurance agency activities through financial subsidiaries. PNC Bank, N.A. may also generally engage through a financial subsidiary in any activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity.
Certain activities, however, are impermissible for a financial subsidiary of a national bank, including insurance underwriting, insurance company investment activities, real estate investment or development, and merchant banking. 
Other Federal Reserve and OCC Regulation and Supervision. The federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective action as
deemed appropriate for an insured depository institution and its holding company. In some cases, the extent of these powers depends upon whether the institution in question is considered “well capitalized,” “adequately
capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized.” Generally, the smaller an institution’s capital base in relation to its risk-weighted or total assets, the
greater the scope and severity of the agencies’ powers, ultimately permitting the agencies to appoint a receiver for the institution. Business activities may also be influenced by an institution’s capital classification. For instance, only
a “well capitalized” depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and an “adequately capitalized” depository institution may
 
 
8    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


Laws and regulations limit the scope of our permitted activities and investments. In addition to the activities that would be permitted to be conducted by a financial subsidiary, national banks
(such as PNC Bank, N.A.) and their operating subsidiaries may engage in any activities that are determined by the OCC to be part of or incidental to the business of banking.  Moreover, examination ratings of “3” or lower, lower capital ratios than peer group institutions, regulatory concerns regarding management, controls, assets, operations or other factors, can all
potentially result in practical limitations on the ability of a bank or bank holding company to engage in new activities, grow, acquire new businesses, repurchase its stock or pay dividends, or to continue to conduct existing activities. 
The Federal Reserve’s prior approval is required whenever we propose to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or thrift, to
acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any bank or thrift, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company or thrift holding company. The BHC Act enumerates the factors the
Federal Reserve Board must consider when reviewing the merger of bank holding companies or the acquisition of banks. These factors include the competitive effects of the proposal in the relevant geographic markets; the financial and managerial
resources and future prospects of the companies and banks involved in the transaction; the effect of the transaction on financial stability; the organizations’ compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations; the convenience and
needs of the communities to be served; and the records of performance under the CRA of the insured depository institutions involved in the transaction. In cases involving interstate bank acquisitions, the Board also must consider the concentration
of deposits nationwide and in certain individual states. OCC prior approval is required for PNC Bank, N.A. to acquire another insured bank or thrift by merger. In deciding whether to approve such a transaction, the OCC is required to consider
factors similar to those that must be considered by the Federal Reserve. Our ability to grow through acquisitions could be limited by these approval requirements.  At December 31, 2011, PNC Bank, N.A. was rated “Outstanding” with respect to CRA. 
FDIC Insurance. PNC Bank, N.A. is insured by the FDIC and subject to premium assessments. Regulatory matters could increase the cost of
FDIC deposit insurance premiums to an insured bank as FDIC deposit insurance premiums are “risk based.” Therefore, higher fee percentages would be charged to banks that have lower capital ratios or higher risk profiles. These risk profiles
take into account weaknesses that are found by the primary banking regulator through its examination and supervision of the bank. A negative evaluation by the FDIC or a bank’s primary federal banking regulator could increase the costs to a bank
and result in an


aggregate cost of deposit funds higher than that of competing banks in a lower risk category. Under Dodd-Frank, in April 2011, the deposit insurance base calculation shifted from deposits to
average assets less Tier 1 capital. This methodology change did not materially impact the premiums due to the FDIC.  CFPB Regulation and
Supervision. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the CFPB authority to examine PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. for compliance with a broad range of federal consumer financial laws and regulations, including the laws and regulations that relate to
credit card, deposit, mortgage and other consumer financial products and services we offer. In addition, Dodd-Frank gives the CFPB broad authority to take corrective action against PNC Bank, N.A. and PNC as it deems appropriate. The CFPB also has
powers that it was assigned in Dodd-Frank to issue regulations and take enforcement actions to prevent and remedy acts and practices relating to consumer financial accept brokered deposits only with prior regulatory approval. At December 31,
2011, PNC Bank, N.A. exceeded the required ratios for classification as “well capitalized.” For additional discussion of capital adequacy requirements, we refer you to “Funding and Capital Sources” in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet Review section of Item 7 of this Report and to Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. products and services that it deems to be unfair, deceptive or abusive. The agency
also has authority to impose new disclosure requirements for any consumer financial product or service. These authorities are in addition to the authority the CFPB assumed on July 21, 2011 under existing consumer financial law governing the
provision of consumer financial products and services.  SECURITIES AND DERIVATIVES
REGULATION  The SEC is the functional regulator of our registered broker-dealer and investment advisor
subsidiaries. The registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are also subject to rules and regulations promulgated by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), among others.  Several of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as investment advisers and provide services to clients, other PNC affiliates and related entities, including registered investment companies. Under
rules adopted under Dodd-Frank, we have been required to register additional subsidiaries as investment advisors to private equity funds. Broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
and the regulations thereunder. Investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to the requirements of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. An investment advisor to registered investment companies is also
subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the regulations thereunder.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    9 


Table of Contents

Our broker-dealer and investment advisory subsidiaries also may be subject to state securities laws and
regulations. Over the past several years, the SEC and other governmental agencies have been focused on the mutual fund, hedge fund and broker-dealer industries. Congress and the SEC have adopted regulatory reforms and are continuing additional
reforms that have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, the extent of regulation of the mutual fund, hedge fund and broker-dealer industries and impose additional compliance obligations and costs on our subsidiaries involved with those
industries.  Under provisions of the federal securities laws applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers and registered investment
companies and their service providers, a determination by a court or regulatory agency that certain violations have occurred at a company or its affiliates can result in fines, restitution, a limitation on permitted activities, disqualification to
continue to conduct certain activities and an inability to rely on certain favorable exemptions. Certain types of infractions and violations can also affect a public company in its timing and ability to expeditiously issue new securities into the
capital markets. In addition, certain changes in the activities of a broker-dealer require approval from FINRA, and FINRA takes into account a variety of considerations in acting upon applications for such approval, including internal controls,
capital levels, management experience and quality, prior enforcement and disciplinary history and supervisory concerns.  BlackRock has
subsidiaries in securities and related businesses subject to SEC and FINRA regulation, as described above, and a federally chartered nondepository trust company subsidiary subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC. For additional information
about the regulation of BlackRock, we refer you to the discussion under the “Regulation” section of Item 1 Business in BlackRock’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained electronically at the SEC’s
website at www.sec.gov.  In addition, Title VII of Dodd-Frank subjects virtually all derivative transactions (swaps) to regulation by either
the CFTC (in the case of non security-based swaps) or the SEC (in the case of security-based swaps). This legislation was enacted, among other reasons, to reduce systemic risk, increase transparency, and promote market integrity within the financial
system by, among other things: (i) providing for the registration and comprehensive regulation of swap dealers (SDs) and major swap participants (MSPs); (ii) imposing mandatory clearing and trade execution requirements on all standardized
swaps, with certain limited exemptions; (iii) creating robust recordkeeping and real-time public data reporting regimes with respect to swaps; (iv) imposing capital and margin requirements on SDs and MSPs; (v) imposing business
conduct requirements on SDs and MSPs in their dealings with counterparties; and (vi) enhancing the CFTC’s


and SEC’s rulemaking and enforcement authorities with respect to SDs and MSPs. Under the rules anticipated under Dodd-Frank, we expect one or more of our subsidiaries to register with the
CFTC as a SD for interest rate and foreign exchange swaps and accordingly be subject to all of the new regulations and requirements imposed on a SD with respect to these types of swaps.  COMPETITION  We are subject to intense competition from various financial
institutions and from non-bank entities that can offer a number of similar products and services without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions.  In making loans, PNC Bank, N.A. competes with traditional banking institutions as well as consumer finance companies, leasing companies and other non-bank lenders, and institutional investors including
collateralized loan obligation (CLO) managers, hedge funds, mutual fund complexes and private equity firms. Loan pricing, structure and credit standards are extremely important in the current environment as we seek to achieve appropriate
risk-adjusted returns. Traditional deposit-taking activities are also subject to pricing pressures and to customer migration as a result of intense competition for consumer investment dollars. 
PNC Bank, N.A. competes for deposits with: 


 
•
 
 Other commercial banks, 


 
•
 
 Savings banks, 


 
•
 
 Savings and loan associations, 


 
•
 
 Credit unions, 


 
•
 
 Treasury management service companies, 


 
•
 
 Insurance companies, and 


 
•
 
 Issuers of commercial paper and other securities, including mutual funds.  Our various non-bank businesses engaged in investment banking and alternative investment activities compete with: 


 
•
 
 Commercial banks, 


 
•
 
 Investment banking firms, 


 
•
 
 Merchant banks, 


 
•
 
 Insurance companies, 


 
•
 
 Private equity firms, and 


 
•
 
 Other investment vehicles. 
In providing asset management services, our businesses compete with: 


 
•
 
 Investment management firms, 


 
•
 
 Large banks and other financial institutions, 


 
•
 
 Brokerage firms, 


 
•
 
 Mutual fund complexes, and 


 
•
 
 Insurance companies.  We
include here by reference the additional information regarding competition included in the Item 1A Risk Factors section of this Report.
 
 
10    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

EMPLOYEES  Employees totaled 51,891 at December 31, 2011. This total includes 45,940 full-time and 5,951 part-time employees.  SEC REPORTS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INFORMATION  We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, we file annual, quarterly and current reports,
proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Our SEC File Number is 001-09718. You may read and copy this information at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. You can obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  You can also obtain copies of this
information by mail from the Public Reference Section of the SEC, 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549, at prescribed rates.  The SEC also
maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information about issuers, like us, who file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is www.sec.gov. You can also inspect reports, proxy
statements and other information about us at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.  We also
make our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act available free of charge on
our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. PNC’s corporate internet address is www.pnc.com and you can find this information at www.pnc.com/secfilings.
Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of these filings without charge by contacting Shareholder Services at 800-982-7652 or via the online contact form at www.computershare.com/contactus for copies without exhibits, and by contacting
Shareholder Relations at 800-843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com for copies of exhibits, including financial statement and schedule exhibits where applicable. The interactive data file (XBRL) exhibit is only available
electronically.  Information about our Board of Directors and its committees and corporate governance at PNC is available on PNC’s
corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the
PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller) will be posted at this internet address.

Shareholders who would like to request printed copies of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or our
Corporate Governance Guidelines or the charters of our Board’s Audit, Nominating and Governance, Personnel and Compensation, or Risk Committees (all of which are posted on the PNC corporate website) may do so by sending their requests to George
P. Long, III, Chief Governance Counsel and Corporate Secretary, at corporate headquarters at One PNC Plaza, 249 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2707. Copies will be provided without charge to shareholders. 
Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “PNC.” 
INTERNET INFORMATION  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.’s financial reports and information about its products and services are available on the internet at www.pnc.com. We provide information for investors on our
corporate website under “About PNC – Investor Relations,” such as Investor Events, Quarterly Earnings, SEC Filings, Financial Information, Financial Press Releases and Message from the Chairman. Under “Investor Relations,”
we will from time to time post information that we believe may be important or useful to investors. We generally post the following shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases (including earnings
releases), various SEC filings, presentation materials associated with earnings and other investor conference calls or events, and access to live and taped audio from such calls or events. When warranted, we will also use our website to expedite
public access to time-critical information regarding PNC in advance of distribution of a press release or a filing with the SEC disclosing the same information. You can also find the SEC reports and corporate governance information described in the
sections above in the Investor Relations section of our website.  Where we have included web addresses in this Report, such as our web address
and the web address of the SEC, we have included those web addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof. 
ITEM 1A – RISK FACTORS 
We are subject to a number of risks potentially impacting our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a financial services
organization, certain elements of risk are inherent in our transactions and are present in the business decisions we make. Thus, we encounter risk as part of the normal course of our business, and we design risk management processes to help manage
these risks.  There are risks that are known to exist at the outset of a transaction. For example, every loan transaction presents credit risk
(the risk that the borrower may not perform in accordance with contractual terms) and market risk (a
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    11 


Table of Contents


potential loss in earnings or economic value due to adverse movement in market interest rates or credit spreads), with the nature and extent of these risks principally depending on the financial
profile of the borrower and overall economic conditions. We focus on lending that is within the boundaries of our risk framework, and manage these risks by adjusting the terms and structure of the loans we make and through our oversight of the
borrower relationship, as well as through management of our deposits and other funding sources.  Risk management is an important part of our
business model. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to identify, understand and manage the risks presented by our business activities so that we can appropriately balance revenue generation and profitability. These risks include
credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, model risk, compliance and legal risk, and strategic and reputation risk. We discuss our principal risk management processes and, in appropriate places, related historical performance in
the Risk Management section included in Item 7 of this Report.  The following are the key risk factors that affect us. Any one or more of
these risk factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, in addition to presenting other possible adverse consequences, which are described below. These risk factors and other
risks are also discussed further in other sections of this Report.  The possibility of the moderate economic recovery returning to
recessionary conditions or of turmoil or volatility in the financial markets would likely have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.  Although the United States economy has shown modest improvement recently, economic conditions continue to pose a risk to financial institutions, including PNC. The economic recovery, although continuing,
did so at a slower pace in 2011 than previously anticipated. Job growth has not yet been sufficient to significantly reduce high unemployment in the United States. Consumer and business confidence remains low. There continues to be concern regarding
the possibility of a return to recessionary conditions, as well as regarding the possibility of increased turmoil or volatility in financial markets.  The global recession and disruption of the financial markets has led to concerns over capital markets access and the solvency of certain European Union member states, including Greece, Portugal, Ireland,
Italy and Spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. Certain of the major rating agencies have downgraded the sovereign debt of Greece, Portugal and Ireland to below
investment grade. The sovereign debt of Italy and Spain were also downgraded. These ratings downgrades and implementation of European Union and private sector support programs have increased


concerns that other European Union member states could experience similar financial troubles. A failure to adequately address sovereign debt concerns in Europe could hamper economic recovery or
contribute to a return to recessionary economic conditions and contribute to severe stress in the financial markets, including in the United States.  On August 5, 2011, Standard & Poors’s Rating Services lowered its long term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America from AAA to AA+. It is possible that the downgrade
and continued concerns about U.S. fiscal policy and trajectory of the national debt of the U.S. could have severe repercussions on the U.S. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries
and could disrupt economic activity in the U.S. and elsewhere.  Current economic conditions have had an adverse effect on our business and
financial performance and may not improve in the near future. We expect these conditions to continue to have an ongoing negative impact on us and a worsening of conditions would likely aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and
market conditions on us and on others in the financial services industry.  In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with
the current economic and market environment: 


 
•
 
 Investors may have less confidence in the equity markets in general and in financial services industry stocks in particular, which could place downward
pressure on PNC’s stock price and resulting market valuation. 


 
•
 
 Economic and market developments, in the United States, Europe or elsewhere, may further affect consumer and business confidence levels and may cause
declines in credit usage and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. 


 
•
 
 The continuation of the current very low interest rate environment, which is expected to continue at least through late 2014 based on statements by the
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, could affect consumer and business behavior in ways that are adverse to us and could also hamper our ability to increase our net interest income. 


 
•
 
 Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite our
customers become less predictive of future behaviors. 


 
•
 
 The process we use to estimate losses in our credit exposures requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including with respect to economic
conditions and how economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. At any point in time or for any length of time, such losses may no longer be capable of accurate
 
 
12    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
estimation, which may, in turn, adversely impact the reliability of the process for estimating losses and, therefore, the establishment of adequate reserves for those losses.



 
•
 
 We could suffer decreases in customer desire to do business with us, whether as a result of a decreased demand for loans or other financial products
and services or decreased deposits or other investments in accounts with PNC. 


 
•
 
 Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current
market conditions, or otherwise. 


 
•
 
 Increased regulation of compensation at financial services companies as part of government efforts to reform the industry may hinder our ability to
attract, retain and incentivize well-qualified individuals in key positions. 


 
•
 
 Investors in mortgage loans and other assets that we sell or sold are more likely to seek indemnification from us against losses or otherwise seek to
have us share in such losses or to request us to repurchase loans that they believe do not comply with applicable representations and warranties or other contractual provisions. 


 
•
 
 We may be subject to additional fees and taxes as the government seeks to recover some of the costs of its recovery efforts, reduce the national debt
or pay for additional government programs, in particular from the financial services industry.  The regulatory
environment for the financial services industry is being significantly impacted by financial regulatory reform initiatives in the United States and elsewhere, including Dodd-Frank and regulations promulgated to implement it. 
The United States and other governments have undertaken major reform of the regulatory oversight structure of the financial services industry, including
engaging in new efforts to impose requirements designed to reduce systemic risks and protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. We expect to face further increased regulation of our industry as a result of current and future initiatives
intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets. We also expect in many cases more intense
scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of laws and regulations on both the federal and state levels. Compliance with regulations and other supervisory initiatives will likely increase our cost
and reduce our revenue, and may limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) mandates the most wide-ranging


overhaul of financial industry regulation in decades. Dodd-Frank was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Many parts of the law are now in effect and others are now in the implementation stage,
which is likely to continue for several years. The law requires that regulators, some of which are new regulatory bodies created by Dodd-Frank, draft, review and approve more than 300 implementing regulations and conduct numerous studies that are
likely to lead to more regulations, a process that, while well underway, is proceeding somewhat slower than originally anticipated, thus extending the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate impact of Dodd-Frank on us. A number of reform provisions are
likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including PNC, do business.   


 
•
 
 Newly created regulatory bodies include the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). The CFPB
has been given authority to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 billion and their affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer protection laws.
The FSOC has been charged with identifying systemic risks, promoting stronger financial regulation and identifying those non-bank companies that are “systemically important” and thus should be subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve.
In addition, in extraordinary cases and together with the Federal Reserve, the FSOC could break up financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the United States. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank (through provisions commonly known as the “Volcker Rule”) prohibits banks from engaging in some types of proprietary trading and
restricts the ability of banks to sponsor, invest in or have other financial relationships with private equity or hedge funds. In October 2011, four of the five agencies with authority for rulemaking issued proposed rules to implement the Volcker
Rule. In January 2012, the fifth agency issued substantially similar proposed rules. The rules set forth a complex and detailed compliance, reporting and monitoring program for large banks, and seek comments on numerous questions. Comments are due
in February 2012 on the four agency proposals and later in 2012 on the single agency proposal and a final rule will not be published until some time after those dates. The proposed rules currently require that banking entities have the necessary
compliance programs in place by July 2012. Even with the publication of proposed rules, however, there remains considerable uncertainty and we are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the Volcker Rule. The manner in which the
questions posed by the proposed rules are addressed by the agencies will have an
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    13 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
important influence on the impact of the final rules on PNC. Although PNC no longer has a designated proprietary trading operation, the proposed rules broadly define what constitutes potentially
prohibited “proprietary trading,” thereby making the scope of the statutory and regulatory exemptions for trading activities, including the exemptions for hedging activities and customer trading, all the more important. Until more is known
about how the final rules will define “proprietary trading” and the scope of permissible trading activities, it is not possible to determine the impact to PNC of the proprietary trading prohibition. However, any meaningful limitation on
PNC’s ability to hedge its risks in the ordinary course or to trade on behalf of customers would likely be adverse to PNC’s business and results of operations. In addition, the proposed rules contain extensive compliance and recordkeeping
requirements related to permissible trading activities. Such requirements, if included in a final rule, could increase the costs of hedging or other types of permissible transactions and potentially result in PNC not engaging in certain
transactions, or types of transactions, in which we would otherwise engage. With respect to the restrictions on private equity and hedge fund activities, as of December 31, 2011, PNC held interests in such funds likely to be covered totaling
approximately $880 million and sponsored three such funds with total invested capital of approximately $441 million. PNC expects that over time it will need to eliminate these investments and cease sponsoring these funds, although it is likely that
at least some of these amounts will reduce over time in the ordinary course before compliance is required, and the Volcker Rule also permits extensions of the compliance date under some circumstances. A forced sale of some of these investments due
to the Volcker Rule could result in PNC receiving less value than it would otherwise have received. Depending on the provisions of the final rule, it is possible that other structures through which PNC conducts business, such as operating
subsidiaries, joint ventures or securitization vehicles, but that are not typically referred to as private equity or hedge funds, could be restricted, with an impact that cannot now be evaluated. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve to establish enhanced prudential standards governing capital, liquidity, risk management, stress testing and
related disclosures, and single-counterparty credit exposure limits for bank holding companies and certain foreign banking organizations with $50 billion or more in consolidated total assets (“covered companies”). Dodd-Frank also requires
the Federal Reserve to establish an “early remediation” regime for covered companies under which the Federal Reserve must or



 
 
 
may take increasingly stringent actions against a covered company as its financial health deteriorates. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve requested comment on proposed rules that would
implement these requirements for domestic covered companies, including PNC. The proposed enhanced prudential standards would include, among other things, heightened liquidity risk management and stress testing requirements; new standards governing
oversight by a covered company’s board of directors and board-level risk committee; and new limits on the aggregate amount of credit exposure a covered company may have to any single customer or counterparty. These proposed rules also would
establish an “early remediation” regime for covered companies, under which the Federal Reserve would be required to take increasingly stringent actions against a covered company as its financial condition or risk management deteriorated as
reflected by the company’s current or projected post-stress capital levels, compliance with supervisory liquidity and risk management standards and, in some instances, market-based indicators, such as credit default swap spreads. Comments on
the proposed rules will be accepted until at least March 31, 2012. Final rules will not be issued until some time after such date, and as such the impact of these rules cannot now be evaluated. Many aspects of the rules, at least as proposed,
would not become effective until mid-2013 at the earliest.   


 
•
 
 In addition, the relevant regulatory agencies have proposed rules to implement the Dodd-Frank provisions requiring retention of risk by certain
securitization participants through holding interests in the securitization vehicles, but the rules are not yet finalized or effective. As a result, the ultimate impact of these Dodd-Frank provisions on PNC remains unpredictable. That impact on PNC
could be direct, by requiring PNC to hold interests in a securitization vehicle or other assets that represent a portion of the credit risk of the assets held by the securitization vehicle, or indirect, by impacting markets in which PNC
participates. Since the beginning of the financial crisis, there has been and continues to be substantially less private (that is, non-government backed) securitization activity than had previously been the case. It is unclear at present whether and
to what extent the private securitization markets will rebound. In recent years PNC has only engaged in a limited extent in securitization transactions under circumstances where we might expect to be required to retain additional risk on our balance
sheet as a result of implementation of these Dodd-Frank provisions. If the market for private securitizations rebounds and PNC decides to increase its participation in that market, we would likely be required under the regulations to retain more
risk  
 
14    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents



 
•
 
 On the indirect impact side, PNC originates loans of a variety of types, including residential and commercial mortgages, credit card, auto, and
student, that historically have commonly been securitized, and PNC is also a significant servicer of residential and commercial mortgages held by others, including securitization vehicles. PNC anticipates that the risk retention requirements will
impact the market for loans of types that historically have been securitized, potentially affecting the volumes of loans securitized, the types of loan products made available, the terms on which loans are offered, consumer and business demand for
loans, and the need for third-party loan servicers. It should be noted that the risk retention rules themselves could have the effect of slowing the rebound in the securitization markets. One effect of having substantially reduced opportunities to
securitize loans would likely be a reduction in the willingness of banks, including PNC, to make loans due to balance sheet management requirements. Any of these potential impacts of the Dodd-Frank risk retention rules could affect the way in which
PNC conducts its business, including its product offerings, and could also affect PNC’s revenue and profitability, although, as noted above, not in ways that are currently predictable. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank imposes a new regulatory regime on the U.S. derivatives markets. While some of the provisions related to derivatives came into effect
July 16, 2011, most of the new requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) (in the case of non security-based swaps) and the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) (in the case of security-based swaps). One aspect of the Dodd-Frank regulatory regime for non security-based swaps is that substantial oversight responsibility has been provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, will for the first
time have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of PNC’s businesses. Although the ultimate impact will depend on the final regulations, PNC expects that its derivatives business will be subject to new substantive requirements,
including registration with the CFTC, margin requirements in excess of current market practice, capital requirements specific to this business, real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements
(including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps, and disclosure of PNC’s material incentives and conflicts of interest related to its derivatives business), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all
standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as



 
 
 
required to be cleared. To the extent PNC enters into act in the “best interests” of the special entity. In addition, the final rules for the registration of municipal advisors (which
currently remain at the proposal stage) could result in changes in the nature and extent of our municipal swaps business. The above described requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on PNC and will
introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action).   


 
•
 
 New provisions under Dodd-Frank concerning the applicability of state consumer protection laws to national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., became
effective on July 21, 2011. Questions may arise as to whether certain state consumer financial laws that may have previously been preempted by federal law are no longer preempted as a result of the effectiveness of these new provisions.
Depending on how such questions are resolved, we may experience an increase in state-level regulation of our retail banking business and additional compliance obligations, revenue impacts and costs. In addition, provisions under Dodd-Frank that also
took effect on July 21, 2011 permit state attorneys general to bring civil actions against national banks, such as PNC Bank, N.A., for violations of law, as well as regulations issued by the CFPB. 
 


 
•
 
 Dodd-Frank requires bank holding companies that have $50 billion or more in assets, such as PNC, to periodically submit to the Federal Reserve, the
FDIC and the FSOC a resolution plan that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. The Federal Reserve and the
FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on PNC, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies jointly determine that the company’s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of
PNC under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and additionally could require PNC to divest assets or take other actions if we did not submit an acceptable resolution plan within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. The FDIC also has adopted a
rule that requires large insured depository institutions, including PNC Bank, N.A., to periodically submit a resolution plan to the FDIC that includes, among other things, an analysis of how the institution could be resolved under the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) in a manner that protects depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of the bank in accordance with the FDI Act. PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. must file their first plans
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    15 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
under these rules by December 31, 2013. Depending resolution plans submitted by PNC and PNC Bank, N.A., it is possible that these requirements could affect the ways in which PNC structures
and conducts its business and result in higher compliance and operating costs.   


 
•
 
 Other provisions of Dodd-Frank will affect regulatory oversight, holding company capital requirements, and residential mortgage products.
 While much of how the Dodd-Frank and other financial industry reforms will change our current business operations depends
on the specific regulatory promulgations and interpretations, many of which have yet to be released or finalized, it is clear that the reforms, both under Dodd-Frank and otherwise, will have a significant effect on our entire industry. Although
Dodd-Frank and other reforms will affect a number of the areas in which we do business, it is not clear at this time the full extent of the adjustments that will be required and the extent to which we will be able to adjust our businesses in
response to the requirements. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects at this stage, we believe compliance with Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations and other initiatives will continue to negatively
impact revenue, at least to some extent, and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. 
Capital requirements imposed by Dodd-Frank, together with new capital and liquidity standards adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
(the Basel Committee), will result in banks and bank holding companies needing to maintain more and higher quality capital and greater liquidity than has historically been the case.  New and evolving capital standards, both as a result of Dodd-Frank and implementation of new capital standards adopted by the Basel Committee, including the so-called “Basel III” capital accord
issued in December 2010, will have a significant effect on banks and bank holding companies, including PNC. Basel III, among other things, narrows the definition of regulatory capital and establishes higher minimum risk-based capital ratios that,
when fully phased-in, will require banking organizations, including PNC, to maintain a minimum Tier 1 common ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0%. A capital conservation buffer of 2.5% above each of these
levels also is required, which potentially may be supplemented by an additional countercyclical capital buffer. In addition, Basel III introduces an international leverage ratio. The capital standards adopted by the Basel Committee and to be
implemented in the United States also increase the capital requirements for specific types of exposures (including sub-investment grade securitization exposures) and requires


that unconsolidated investments in financial entities on how the agencies conduct their review of the a swap with a “special entity” such as any federal agency, state or state agency,
city, county, municipality, or other political subdivisions of a state, additional business conduct requirements will be imposed on PNC, including the requirement that PNC have a reasonable basis to believe that the special entity has a qualified
representative that undertakes a duty to act in the best interests of the special entity and that is independent of PNC and the requirement that PNC disclose to the special entity the capacity in which PNC is acting in connection with the swap (and
if PNC is acting in more than one capacity, the material differences between such capacities). Further, to the extent PNC acts as an advisor to a special entity, PNC will be required to than would otherwise have been the case, and as a result could
be required to consolidate certain securitization vehicles on our balance sheet, with currently an uncertain financial impact. (potentially including PNC’s investment in BlackRock), as well as mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets,
above certain thresholds be deducted from regulatory capital.  Basel III also includes new short-term liquidity standards (the Liquidity
Coverage Ratio) and long-term funding standards (the Net Stable Funding Ratio). The Liquidity Coverage Ratio, which is scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2015, is designed to ensure that banking organizations maintain an adequate level of
cash, or assets that can readily be converted to cash, to meet potential short-term liquidity needs. The Net Stable Funding Ratio, which is scheduled to take effect by January 1, 2018, is designed to promote a stable maturity structure of
assets and liabilities of banking organizations over a one-year time horizon.  In November 2011, the Basel Committee also adopted a framework
that would require globally systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”) to maintain additional Tier 1 common capital ranging between 1.0% to 2.5% of risk-weighted assets, with the actual required amount varying based on the firm’s global
systemic importance as determined using five criteria (size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, cross-jurisdictional activity, and complexity). Regulatory authorities have not yet definitively determined the banking organizations that
would be subject to a surcharge as a G-SIB although, based on the criteria included in the Basel Committee’s framework, PNC believes that it is unlikely to be deemed a G-SIB. Dodd-Frank directs the Federal Reserve to establish heightened
risk-based and leverage capital requirements and liquidity requirements for bank holding companies, like PNC, that have $50 billion or more in assets. The Federal Reserve has proposed to rely primarily on the forthcoming Basel III capital and
liquidity rules, as well as certain existing or proposed rules, to fulfill this directive. However, the Federal Reserve has stated that it is still considering whether to impose an additional capital surcharge on bank holding companies that have $50
billion or more in consolidated total assets, but that are not subject to a G-SIB surcharge.  
 
16    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Because implementation of the new Basel III capital and liquidity standards, as well as any additional
heightened capital or liquidity standards that may be established by the Federal Reserve under the Dodd-Frank Act, remain subject to rule making in the U.S. and, in many cases, to extended observation and phase-in periods, the full effect of these
standards on PNC’s regulatory capital is uncertain at this time. However, pursuant to the “Collins Amendment” to Dodd-Frank, the U.S. federal banking agencies recently adopted a final rule that requires the phase-out of trust
preferred securities from Tier 1 regulatory capital, and defined the risk-based capital standards generally applicable to all banking organizations. As of December 31, 2011, PNC had $2.4 billion of trust preferred securities included in Tier 1
capital which, under these rules and to the extent the securities remain outstanding, will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital over time.  In
December 2011, the Federal banking agencies also requested comment on proposed rules that would replace the use of credit ratings as a means of determining regulatory capital requirements under the agencies’ market risk capital rule with
alternative methodologies, as required by Section 939A of Dodd-Frank. The agencies have indicated that the credit rating alternatives developed through this rulemaking likely would be incorporated into the agencies’ general risk-based
capital rules affecting so-called “banking book” exposures. Accordingly, the credit rating alternatives that are adopted by the agencies through the market risk rulemaking are likely to significantly influence the amount of capital that
PNC and other U.S. banking organizations must hold with respect to a wide range of exposures including sovereign, state, municipal, corporate, financial institution and securitization exposures, although the extent to which the final rules will
ultimately lead to increased or decreased capital requirements for specific types of exposures or for PNC in the aggregate is not known at this time.  The need to maintain more and higher quality capital, as well as greater liquidity, going forward than historically has been required could limit PNC’s business activities, including lending, and its
ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. It could also result in PNC taking steps to increase its capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or being limited in its ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to
shareholders, or selling or refraining from acquiring assets, the capital requirements for which are inconsistent with the assets’ underlying risks. In addition, the new liquidity standards could require PNC to increase its holdings of highly
liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing PNC’s ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. Moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, U.S.
federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases,
share repurchases and acquisitions. 
Our lending and servicing businesses and the value of the loans and debt securities we hold may be
adversely affected by economic conditions, including a reversal or slowing of the current moderate recovery. Downward valuation of debt securities could also negatively impact our capital position. 
Given the high percentage of our assets represented directly or indirectly by loans, and the importance of lending to our overall business, weak economic
conditions are likely to have a negative impact on our business and our results of operations. This could adversely impact loan utilization rates as well as delinquencies, defaults and customer ability to meet obligations under the loans. This is
particularly the case during the period in which the aftermath of recessionary conditions continues and the positive effects of economic recovery appear to be slow to materialize and unevenly spread among our customers. 
Further, weak economic conditions would likely have a negative impact on our business, our ability to serve our customers, and our results of operations.
Such conditions are  likely to lead to increases in the number of borrowers who become delinquent or default or otherwise demonstrate a
decreased ability to meet their obligations under their loans. This would result in higher levels of non-performing loans, net charge-offs, provision for credit losses and valuation adjustments on loans held for sale. The value to us of other assets
such as investment securities, most of which are debt securities or other financial instruments supported by loans, similarly would be negatively impacted by widespread decreases in credit quality resulting from a weakening of the economy.
 We have historically not considered government insured or guaranteed loans to be higher risk loans as defaults are materially mitigated by
payments of insurance or guaranteed amounts for approved claims by the applicable government agency. While the level of claim denials by government agencies, including the Department of Housing and Urban Development, has historically been low, if
financial conditions prompt government agencies to deny or curtail an increasing number of these claims, we could face additional losses in our lending business. In addition, in the event that submitted claims are denied or curtailed as a result of
our failure as a servicer of the loan to adhere to applicable agency servicing guidelines, we will be required to remit the difference between the claims proceeds that should have been received and the claim amounts actually received to the holder
of the loan.  A failure to sustain reduced amounts of the provision for credit losses, which has benefitted results of operations in recent
periods, could result in decreases in net income.  As was typical in the banking industry, the economic downturn that started in 2007
resulted in PNC experiencing  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    17 


Table of Contents


high levels of provision for credit losses. In the quarters from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2010, PNC’s provision for credit losses ranged from $751 million to
$1.1 billion in each quarter. Subsequently, in part due to improvement in economic conditions, as well as actions taken by PNC to manage its portfolio, PNC’s provision for credit losses has declined substantially, reaching a level of $190
million in the fourth quarter of 2011. This decline in provision for credit losses has been a major contributor to PNC’s ability to maintain and grow its net income during this period. If PNC’s provision for credit losses were to rise back
towards levels experienced during the height of the economic downturn, it would have an adverse effect on PNC’s net income and could result in lower levels of net income than PNC has reported in recent periods. 
Our regional concentrations make us particularly at risk to adverse economic conditions in our primary retail banking footprint. 
Although many of our businesses are national in scope, our retail banking business is concentrated within our retail branch network footprint, located
principally in our primary geographic markets. Following the expected acquisition of RBC Bank (USA), this footprint will expand to include North Carolina, South Carolina, and Alabama. Thus, we are or in the future may be particularly vulnerable to
adverse changes in economic conditions in the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, and Southeast regions.  Our business and performance are vulnerable to
the impact of volatility in debt and equity markets.  As most of our assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be
particularly sensitive to the performance of the financial markets. Turmoil and volatility in U.S. and global financial markets, such as that experienced during the recent financial crisis, can be a major contributory factor to overall weak economic
conditions, leading to some of the risks discussed above, including the impaired ability of borrowers and other counterparties to meet obligations to us. Financial market volatility also can have some of the following adverse effects on PNC and our
business and financial performance: 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value or liquidity of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of servicing rights, including those we carry at fair value. 


 
•
 
 It can affect our ability to access capital markets to raise funds necessary to support our businesses and maintain our overall liquidity position.
Inability to access capital markets as needed, or at cost effective rates, could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the value of the assets that we manage or otherwise administer for others or the assets for which we provide processing and information



 
 
 
services. Although we are not directly impacted by changes in the value of such assets, decreases in the value of those assets would affect related fee income and could result in decreased demand
for our services. 


 
•
 
 It can affect the required funding of our pension obligations to the extent that the value of the assets supporting those obligations drops below
minimum levels. 


 
•
 
 In general, it can impact the nature, profitability or risk profile of the financial transactions in which we engage. 
Volatility in the markets for real estate and other assets commonly securing financial products has been and is likely 
to continue to be a significant contributor to overall volatility in financial markets.  Our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by market interest rates and movements in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the
Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no control and which we may not be able to predict adequately.  As a result of the high percentage of our assets and liabilities that are in the form of interest-bearing or interest-related instruments, changes in interest rates, in the shape of the yield curve or in
spreads between different market interest rates can have a material effect on our business, our profitability and the value of our financial assets and liabilities. For example: 


 
•
 
 Changes in interest rates or interest rate spreads can affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay
on liabilities, which impacts our overall net interest income and profitability. 


 
•
 
 Such changes can affect the ability of borrowers to meet obligations under variable or adjustable rate loans and other debt instruments, and can, in
turn, affect our loss rates on those assets. 


 
•
 
 Such changes may decrease the demand for interest rate based products and services, including loans and deposit accounts. 


 
•
 
 Such changes can also affect our ability to hedge various forms of market and interest rate risk and may decrease the profitability or increase the
risk associated with such hedges. 


 
•
 
 Movements in interest rates also affect mortgage prepayment speeds and could result in impairments of mortgage servicing assets or otherwise affect the
profitability of such assets.  The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the
Federal Reserve, have a significant  
 
18    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. These governmental policies can thus affect the activities and results of operations of banking companies such as PNC. An
important function of the Federal Reserve is to regulate the national supply of bank credit and certain interest rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve influence the rates of interest that we charge on loans and that we pay on borrowings and
interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of our on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Both due to the impact on rates and by controlling access to direct funding from the Federal Reserve Banks, the Federal
Reserve’s policies also influence, to a significant extent, our cost of funding. We cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary, tax and other policies or the effect that they may have on our activities and financial
results.  PNC faces increased risk arising out of its residential mortgage businesses. 
Numerous federal and state governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities are investigating practices in the mortgage lending, servicing and
mortgage-related insurance and reinsurance industries. PNC has received inquiries from governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities on these topics and is responding to these inquiries. These inquiries and investigations could lead to
administrative, civil or criminal proceedings, possibly resulting in remedies including fines, penalties, restitution, alterations in our business practices and additional expenses and collateral costs. See Note 22 Legal Proceedings in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information regarding federal and state governmental, legislative and regulatory inquiries and investigations, including the consent orders entered into by PNC and PNC
Bank, N. A. with the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively.  In addition to governmental or regulatory inquiries and investigations, PNC,
like other companies with residential mortgage origination and servicing operations, faces the risk of class actions, other litigation and claims from the owners of, investors in or purchasers of mortgages originated or serviced by PNC (or
securities backed by such mortgages); homeowners involved in foreclosure proceedings or various mortgage-related insurance programs; downstream purchasers of homes sold after foreclosure; title insurers; and other potential claimants. At this time
PNC cannot predict the ultimate overall cost to or effect upon PNC from governmental, legislative or regulatory actions and private litigation or claims arising out of residential mortgage lending, servicing or reinsurance practices, although such
actions, litigation and claims could, individually or in the aggregate, result in significant expense.  The issues described above may affect
the value of our ownership interests, direct or indirect, in property subject to foreclosure. In addition, possible delays in the schedule for


processing foreclosures may result in an increase in nonperforming loans, additional servicing costs and possible demands for contractual fees or penalties under servicing agreements. 
There is also an increased risk of incurring costs related to further remedial and related efforts required by the consent orders and related to
repurchase requests arising out of either the foreclosure process or origination issues. Reputational damage arising out of this industry-wide inquiry could also have an adverse effect upon our existing mortgage business and could reduce future
business opportunities.  One or more of the foregoing could adversely affect PNC’s business, financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows.  We grow our business in part by acquiring other financial services companies from time to time, and these acquisitions
present a number of risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transactions themselves and to the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing.  Acquisitions of other financial services companies, financial services assets and related deposits and other liabilities present risks and uncertainties to PNC in addition to those presented by the nature
of the business acquired.  In general, acquisitions may be substantially more expensive to complete than anticipated (including unanticipated
costs incurred in connection with the integration of the acquired company). Anticipated benefits (including anticipated cost savings and strategic gains) may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected or may not be achieved in
their entirety as a result of unexpected factors or events.  Our ability to achieve anticipated results from acquisitions is 
often dependent also on the extent of credit losses in the acquired loan portfolios and the extent of deposit attrition, which are, in part, related to
the state of economic and financial markets. Also, litigation and governmental investigations that may be filed or commenced, as a result of an acquisition or otherwise, could impact the timing or realization of anticipated benefits to PNC.
 Integration of an acquired company’s business and operations into PNC, including conversion of the acquired company’s different
systems and procedures, may take longer than anticipated or be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to the acquired company’s or PNC’s existing businesses. In some cases, acquisitions involve our
entry into new businesses or new geographic or other markets, and these situations also present risks and uncertainties in instances where we may be inexperienced in these new areas.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    19 


Table of Contents

Our ability to analyze the risks presented by prospective acquisitions, as well as our ability to prepare
in advance of closing for integration, depends, in part, on the information we can gather with respect to the target, which is more limited than the information we have regarding companies we already own. 
Our pending acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) presents many of the risks and uncertainties related to acquisition transactions themselves and to the
integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing described above.  As a regulated financial institution, our ability to pursue or
complete attractive acquisition opportunities could be negatively impacted by regulatory delays or other regulatory issues. In addition, legal and regulatory or other governmental proceedings, claims, investigations or inquiries relating to
pre-acquisition business and activities of acquired companies may result in future monetary judgments or settlements or other remedies, including damages, fines, penalties, restitution or alterations in our business practices, and in additional
expenses and collateral costs, and may cause reputational harm to PNC. The processes of integrating acquired businesses, as well as the deconsolidation of divested businesses, also pose many additional possible risks which could result in increased
costs, liability or other adverse consequences to PNC. Note 22 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report describes several legal proceedings related to pre-acquisition activities of companies
we have acquired, including National City. Other such legal proceedings may be commenced in the future.  The soundness of other financial
institutions could adversely affect us.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty,
and other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment
banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us
cannot be realized  upon or is liquidated at prices that are not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due
us.  We operate in a highly competitive environment, in terms of the products and services we offer and the geographic markets in which we
conduct business, as well as in our labor markets where we compete for talented employees. Competition could adversely impact our customer acquisition, growth and retention, as well as our credit spreads and product pricing, causing us to lose
market share and deposits and revenues. 
We are subject to intense competition from various financial institutions as well as from non-bank entities
that engage in many similar activities without being subject to bank regulatory supervision and restrictions. This competition is described in Item 1 of this Report under “Competition.” 
In all, the principal bases for competition are pricing (including the interest rates charged on loans or paid on interest-bearing deposits), product
structure, the range of products and services offered, and the quality of customer service (including convenience and responsiveness to customer needs and concerns). The ability to access and use technology is an increasingly important competitive
factor in the financial services industry, and it is a critically important component to customer satisfaction as it affects our ability to deliver the right products and services.  Another increasingly competitive factor in the financial services industry is the competition to attract and retain talented employees across many of our business and support areas. This competition leads
to increased expenses in many business areas and can also cause us to not pursue certain business opportunities.  A failure to adequately
address the competitive pressures we face could make it harder for us to attract and retain customers across our businesses. On the other hand, meeting these competitive pressures could require us to incur significant additional expense or to accept
risk beyond what we would otherwise view as desirable under the circumstances. In addition, in our interest rate sensitive businesses, pressures to increase rates on deposits or decrease rates on loans could reduce our net interest margin with a
resulting negative impact on our net interest income.  The performance of our asset management businesses may be adversely impacted by
overall economic and market conditions as well as the relative performance of our products compared with the offerings by competitors. 
Asset management revenue is primarily based on a percentage of the value of the assets and thus is impacted by general changes in market valuations,
customer preferences and needs. In addition, investment performance is an important factor influencing the level of assets. Poor investment performance could impair revenue and growth as existing clients might 
withdraw funds in favor of better performing products. Additionally, the ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish. Overall
economic conditions may limit the amount that customers are able or willing to invest as well as the value of the assets they do invest.  The
failure or negative performance of products of other financial institutions could lead to a loss of confidence in similar products offered by us without regard to the performance of our products. Such a negative contagion could lead to withdrawals,
redemptions and liquidity issues in such  
 
20    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


products and have a material adverse impact on our assets under management and asset management revenues and earnings.  As a regulated financial services firm, we are subject to numerous governmental regulations and to comprehensive examination and supervision by regulators, which affect our business as well as our
competitive position.  PNC is a bank holding company and a financial holding company and is subject to numerous governmental regulations
involving both its business and organization.  Our businesses are subject to regulation by multiple bank regulatory bodies as well as multiple
securities industry regulators. Applicable laws and regulations restrict our ability to repurchase stock or to receive dividends from subsidiaries  that operate in the banking and securities businesses and impose capital adequacy requirements. PNC’s ability to service its obligations is dependent on the receipt of dividends and advances from its
subsidiaries. Applicable laws and regulations also restrict permissible activities and investments and require compliance with protections for loan, deposit, brokerage, fiduciary, mutual fund and other customers, and for the protection of customer
information, among other things. We are also subject to laws and regulations designed to combat money laundering, terrorist financing, and transactions with persons, companies or foreign governments designated by U.S. authorities. The consequences
of noncompliance can include substantial monetary and nonmonetary sanctions as well as damage to our reputation and businesses.  In addition,
we are subject to comprehensive examination and supervision by banking and other regulatory bodies. Examination reports and ratings (which often are not publicly available) and other aspects of this supervisory framework can materially impact the
conduct, growth, and profitability of our businesses.  Due to the current economic environment and issues facing the financial services
industry, we anticipate that there will be new legislative and regulatory initiatives over the next several years, including many focused specifically on banking and other financial services in which we are engaged. These initiatives will be in
addition to the actions already taken by Congress and the regulators, through enactment of the Credit CARD Act, the SAFE Act, and Dodd-Frank, as well as changes to the regulations implementing the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act, the Federal Truth in Lending Act, and the Electronic Fund Transfer Act. Legislative and regulatory initiatives have had and are
likely to continue to have an impact on the conduct of our business. This impact could include rules and regulations that affect the nature and profitability of our business activities, how we use our capital, how we compensate and incent our
employees, the type and amount of instruments we hold for liquidity purposes, and other matters potentially having a negative effect on our overall business results and prospects.

Under the regulations of the Federal Reserve, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of
financial and managerial strength for its subsidiary banks. As a result, the Federal Reserve could require PNC to commit resources to PNC Bank, N.A. when doing so is not otherwise in the interests of PNC or its shareholders or creditors. 
Our ability to pay dividends to shareholders is largely dependent on dividends from our operating subsidiaries, principally PNC Bank, N.A. Banks are
subject to regulation on the amount and circumstances of dividends they can pay to their holding companies.  We discuss these and other
regulatory issues applicable to PNC, including some particular areas of current regulatory focus or concern, in the Supervision and Regulation section included in Item 1 of this Report and in Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and here by reference.  A failure to comply, or to have adequate policies and
procedures designed to comply, with regulatory requirements could expose us to damages, fines and regulatory penalties and other regulatory actions, which could be significant, and could also injure our reputation with customers and others with whom
we do business.  We must comply with generally accepted accounting principles established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board,
accounting, disclosure and other rules set forth by the SEC, income tax and other regulations established by the US Treasury and state and local taxing authorities, and revenue rulings and other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service, which
affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Changes in accounting standards, or interpretations of those standards, can impact
our revenue recognition and expense policies and affect our estimation methods used to prepare the consolidated financial statements. Changes in income tax regulations, revenue rulings, revenue procedures, and other guidance can impact our tax
liability and alter the timing of cash flows associated with tax deductions and payments. New guidance often dictates how changes to standards and regulations are to be presented in our consolidated financial statements, as either an adjustment to
beginning retained earnings for the period or as income or expense in current  period earnings. In some cases, changes may be applied to
previously reported disclosures.  The determination of the amount of loss allowances and impairments taken on our assets is highly
subjective, and inaccurate estimates could materially impact our results of operations or financial position.  The determination of the
amount of loss allowances and asset impairments varies by asset type and is based upon our
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    21 


Table of Contents


periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information
becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. Although we have policies and procedures in place to determine loss allowance and asset
impairments, due to the substantial subjective nature of this area, there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our financial statements. Furthermore, additional
impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances.  Our asset valuation may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and this, along with market factors such as volatility in one or more markets,
could result in changes to asset valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  We
must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when assets and liabilities are measured and reported at fair value. Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement volatility. Fair values and
the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices and/or other observable inputs provided by independent third-party sources, when available. When such third-party information
is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques utilizing assumptions such as credit quality, liquidity, interest rates and other relevant inputs. Changes in underlying factors or
assumptions in any of the areas underlying our estimates could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations. 
During periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it
may be more difficult to value certain of our assets if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. There may be certain asset classes that were historically in active markets with significant observable data that
rapidly become illiquid due to market volatility, a loss in market confidence or other factors. In such cases, valuations in certain asset classes may require more subjectivity and management judgment; valuations may include inputs and assumptions
that are less observable or require greater estimation. Further, rapidly changing and unprecedented market conditions in any particular market (e.g. credit, equity, fixed income, foreign exchange) could materially impact the valuation of assets as
reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly.

We are subject to operational risk.  Like all businesses, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. Operational
risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and
other obligations. We are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational
functions necessary to our business. Although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls which we review and 
update, no system of controls, however well designed and maintained, is infallible. Control weaknesses or failures or other operational risks could result
in charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone business opportunities.  We continually encounter technological
change and we could falter in our ability to remain competitive in this arena.  The financial services industry is continually undergoing
rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our
continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that satisfy customer demands and create efficiencies in our operations. We may not be able to
effectively implement new technology-driven products and services that allow us to remain competitive or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.  Our information systems may experience interruptions or breaches in security.  We rely
heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in disruptions to our accounting, deposit, loan and other systems, and adversely affect our
customer relationships. While we have policies and  procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible events, there can be
no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be sufficiently remediated.  There have been increasing efforts on the part of third parties to breach data security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions, including through the use of social engineering
schemes such as “phishing.” In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change
 
 
22    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, we may be unable to proactively address these
techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. The ability of our customers to bank remotely, including online and through mobile devices, requires secure transmission of confidential information and increases the risk of data security
breaches.  Although to date efforts to breach our data security have not had a material impact on PNC, the occurrence of any such failure,
interruption or security breach of our systems, particularly if widespread or resulting in financial losses to our customers, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose
us to civil litigation and financial liability.  Our business and financial results could be impacted materially by adverse results in
legal proceedings.  Many aspects of our business involve substantial risk of legal liability. We have been named or threatened to be named
as defendants in various lawsuits arising from our business activities (and in some cases from the activities of companies we have acquired). In addition, we are regularly the subject of governmental investigations and other forms of regulatory
inquiry. We also are at risk when we have agreed to indemnify others for losses related to legal proceedings, including litigation and governmental investigations and inquiries, they face, such as in connection with the sale of a business or assets
by us. The results of these legal proceedings could lead to significant monetary damages or penalties, restrictions on the way in which we conduct our business, or reputational harm.  Although we establish accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can
be reasonably estimated, we do not have accruals for all legal proceedings where we face a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may
not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, our ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies. 
We discuss further the unpredictability of legal proceedings and describe some of our pending legal proceedings in Note 22 Legal Proceedings in the Notes
To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected,
directly or indirectly, by disasters, by terrorist activities or by international hostilities.  Neither the occurrence nor the potential
impact of disasters, terrorist activities and international hostilities can be


predicted. However, these occurrences could impact us directly (for example, by causing significant damage to our facilities or preventing us from conducting our business in the ordinary course),
or indirectly as a result of their impact on our borrowers, depositors, other customers, suppliers or other counterparties. We could also suffer adverse consequences to the extent that disasters, terrorist activities or international hostilities
affect the financial markets or the economy in general or in any particular region. These types of impacts could lead, for example, to an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in our experiencing higher levels of
nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses.  Our ability to mitigate the adverse consequences of such occurrences
is in part dependent on the quality of our resiliency planning, and our ability, if any, to anticipate the nature of any such event that occurs. The adverse impact of disasters or terrorist activities or international hostilities also could be
increased to the extent that there is a lack of preparedness on the part of national or regional emergency responders or on the part of other organizations and businesses that we deal with, particularly those that we depend upon but have no control
over.  ITEM 1B – UNRESOLVED STAFF
COMMENTS  There are no SEC staff comments regarding PNC’s periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act that are
pending resolution.  ITEM 2 – PROPERTIES 
Our executive and primary administrative offices are located at One PNC Plaza, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The 30-story structure is owned by PNC Bank,
N.A.  We own or lease numerous other premises for use in conducting business activities, including operations centers, offices, and branch and
other facilities. We consider the facilities owned or occupied under lease by our subsidiaries to be adequate. We include here by reference the additional information regarding our properties in Note 10 Premises, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements
in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  ITEM 3
– LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  See the information set forth in Note 22 Legal Proceedings in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is incorporated here by reference. 
ITEM 4 – MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
Not applicable  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    23 


Table of Contents

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF
THE REGISTRANT  Information regarding each of our executive officers as of February 17, 2012 is set
forth below. Executive officers do not have a stated term of office. Each executive officer has held the position or positions indicated or another executive position with the same entity or one of its affiliates for the past five years unless
otherwise indicated below.   














Name
 
Age
 
 
Position with PNC
 
 Year
Employed (1)
 

 James E. Rohr
 
 
63
  
 
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (2)
 
 
1972
  

 Joseph C. Guyaux
 
 
61
  
 
 Senior Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer
 
 
1972
  

 William S. Demchak
 
 
49
  
 
 Senior Vice Chairman
 
 
2002
  

 Thomas K. Whitford
 
 
55
  
 
 Vice Chairman
 
 
1983
  

 Joan L. Gulley
 
 
64
  
 
 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
 
 
1986
  

 Michael J. Hannon
 
 
55
  
 
 Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer
 
 
1982
  

 Robert F. Hoyt
 
 
47
  
 
 Executive Vice President, Senior Deputy General Counsel, and Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer
 
 
2009
  

 Richard J. Johnson
 
 
55
  
 
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
2002
  

 Michael P. Lyons
 
 
41
  
 
 Executive Vice President
 
 
2011
  

 E. William Parsley, III
 
 
46
  
 
 Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer and Treasurer
 
 
2003
  

 Helen P. Pudlin
 
 
62
  
 
 Executive Vice President and General Counsel
 
 
1989
  

 Robert Q. Reilly
 
 
47
  
 
 Executive Vice President
 
 
1987
  

 Gregory H. Kozich
 
 
48
  
 
 Senior Vice President and Controller
 
 
2010
  



(1)
Where applicable, refers to year employed by predecessor company. 


(2)
Also serves as a director of PNC. Biographical information for Mr. Rohr is included in “Election of Directors (Item 1)” in our proxy statement for the
2012 annual meeting of shareholders.  Joseph C. Guyaux was appointed Senior Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer in February
2012, prior to which he served as President.  William S. Demchak has served as Senior Vice Chairman since February 2009. Since August 2005, he
has had oversight responsibilities for the Corporation’s Corporate & Institutional Banking business, as well as PNC’s asset and liability management activities. Beginning in September 2010, he assumed supervisory responsibility
for all PNC businesses.  Thomas K. Whitford has served as Vice Chairman since February 2009. He was appointed Chief Administrative Officer in
May 2007. From April 2002 through May 2007 and then from November 2009 until April 2010, he served as Chief Risk Officer.

Joan L. Gulley has served as Chief Human Resources Officer since April 2008. She was appointed Senior Vice
President in April 2008 and then Executive Vice President in February 2009. She served as Chief Executive Officer for PNC’s wealth management business from 2002 to 2006. From 1998 until April 2008, she served as Executive Vice President of PNC
Bank, N.A. and was responsible for product and segment management, as well as advertising and brand management for PNC.  Michael J. Hannon has
served as Executive Vice President since February 2009, prior to which he served as Senior Vice President. He has served as Chief Credit Officer since November 2009. From February 2009 to November 2009 he also served as Chief Risk Officer and served
as Interim Chief Risk Officer from December 2011 to February 2012.  Robert F. Hoyt has served as PNC’s Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer
since May 2009. He has also served as Senior Deputy General Counsel since October 2009, and served as director of business planning from May 2009 to November 2011. He was appointed Executive Vice President in November 2011 and was previously Senior
Vice President. From December 2006 to January 2009, Hoyt served as General Counsel of the U.S. Department of the Treasury.  Richard J. Johnson
has served as Chief Financial Officer since August 2005. He was appointed Executive Vice President in February 2009 and was previously Senior Vice President.  Michael P. Lyons joined PNC in October 2011 and is head of Corporate and Institutional Banking. Previously he served as head of corporate development and strategic planning for Bank of America, principal
investment advisor at Maverick Capital, and as a director in Morgan Stanley’s financial institutions group. He was appointed Executive Vice President in November 2011.  E. William Parsley, III has served as Treasurer and Chief Investment Officer since January 2004. He was appointed Executive Vice President of PNC in February 2009. 
Helen P. Pudlin has served as General Counsel since 1994. She was appointed Executive Vice President in February 2009 and was previously Senior Vice
President.  Robert Q. Reilly has served as the head of PNC’s Asset Management Group since 2005. Previously, he held numerous management
roles in both Corporate Banking and Asset Management. He was appointed Executive Vice President in February 2009.  Gregory H. Kozich joined
PNC as Senior Vice President of PNC Bank, N.A. in October 2010. He has served as Senior Vice President of PNC since February 2011 and Corporate Controller for PNC since March 2011. Prior to joining PNC, he was with Fannie Mae as its corporate
controller and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as a partner in its National Banking Group.  
 
24    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

DIRECTORS OF THE
REGISTRANT  The name, age and principal occupation of each of our directors as of February 17, 2012, and the year he or
she first became a director is set forth below: 


 
•
 
 Richard O. Berndt, 69, Managing Partner of Gallagher, Evelius & Jones LLP (law firm) (2007)


 
•
 
 Charles E. Bunch, 62, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PPG Industries, Inc. (coatings, sealants and glass products) (2007)



 
•
 
 Paul W. Chellgren, 69, Operating Partner, Snow Phipps Group, LLC (private equity) (1995) 


 
•
 
 Kay Coles James, 62, President and Founder of The Gloucester Institute (non-profit) (2006)


 
•
 
 Richard B. Kelson, 65, President and Chief Executive Officer, ServCo, LLC (strategic sourcing, supply chain management)
(2002)


 
•
 
 Bruce C. Lindsay, 70, Chairman and Managing Member of 2117 Associates, LLC (business consulting firm) (1995)


 
•
 
 Anthony A. Massaro, 67, Retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln Electric Holdings, Inc. (manufacturer of welding and cutting
products) (2002)


 
•
 
 Jane G. Pepper, 66, Retired President of the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society (non-profit) (1997)


 
•
 
 James E. Rohr, 63, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PNC (1990)


 
•
 
 Donald J. Shepard, 65, Retired Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer of AEGON N.V. (insurance)
(2007)


 
•
 
 Lorene K. Steffes, 66, Independent Business Advisor (technology and technical services) (2000)


 
•
 
 Dennis F. Strigl, 65, Retired President and Chief Operating Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (telecommunications)
(2001)


 
•
 
 Thomas J. Usher, 69, Non-executive Chairman of Marathon Petroleum Corporation (oil and gas industry) (1992) 


 
•
 
 George H. Walls, Jr., 69, former Chief Deputy Auditor for the State of North Carolina (2006)


 
•
 
 Helge H. Wehmeier, 69, Retired Vice Chairman of Bayer Corporation (healthcare, crop protection, and chemicals)
(1992) PART II  ITEM 5 – MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY,
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
(a) (1) Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is traded under the symbol “PNC.” At the close of business on
February 17, 2012, there were 77,045 common shareholders of record.

Holders of PNC common stock are entitled to receive dividends when declared by the Board of Directors out
of funds legally available for this purpose. Our Board of Directors may not pay or set apart dividends on the common stock until dividends for all past dividend periods on any series of outstanding preferred stock have been paid or declared and set
apart for payment. The Board presently intends to continue the policy of paying quarterly cash dividends. The amount of any future dividends will depend on economic and market conditions, our financial condition and operating results, and other
factors, including contractual restrictions and applicable government regulations and policies (such as those relating to the ability of bank and non-bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to the parent company and regulatory capital limitations). Our
ability to increase our dividend is currently subject to the results of the Federal Reserve’s 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) as part of its supervisory assessment of capital adequacy described under “Supervision and
Regulation” in Item 1 of this Report.  The Federal Reserve has the power to prohibit us from paying dividends without its approval.
For further information concerning dividend restrictions and restrictions on loans, dividends or advances from bank subsidiaries to the parent company, you may review “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Report,
“Funding and Capital Sources” in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section, “Liquidity Risk Management” in the Risk Management section, and “Trust Preferred Securities” in the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and VIEs
section of Item 7 of this Report, and Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities and Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which we
include here by reference.  We include here by reference additional information relating to PNC common stock under the caption “Common
Stock Prices/Dividends Declared” in the Statistical Information (Unaudited) section of Item 8 of this Report.  We include here by
reference the information regarding our compensation plans under which PNC equity securities are authorized for issuance as of December 31, 2011 in the table (with introductory paragraph and notes) that appears in Item 12 of this Report.
 Our registrar, stock transfer agent, and dividend disbursing agent is:  Computershare Trust Company, N.A.  250 Royall Street 
Canton, MA 02021  800-982-7652 
We include here by reference the information that appears under the caption “Common Stock Performance Graph” at the end of this Item 5.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    25 


Table of Contents



(a)   (2)
None.   


(b)
Not applicable.   


(c)
Details of our repurchases of PNC common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011 are included in the following table: 
In thousands, except per share data   


















2011 period
 
Total sharespurchased(a)
 
 
Averagepricepaid pershare
 
 
Total sharespurchased aspart
ofpubliclyannouncedprograms (b)
 
Maximumnumber ofshares thatmay yet bepurchasedunder
theprograms (b)
 


October 1 – 31
 
 
133
 
 
$
52.03
 
 
 
 
 
24,710
 


November 1 – 30
 
 
4
 
 
$
55.51
 
 
 
 
 
24,710
 


December 1 – 31
 
 
1
 
 
$
57.86
 
 
 
 
 
24,710
 


Total
 
 
138
 
 
$
52.16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



(a)
Reflects PNC common stock purchased in connection with our various employee benefit plans. No shares were purchased under the program referred to in note (b) to
this table during the fourth quarter of 2011. Effective January 2011, employer matching contributions to the PNC Incentive Savings Plan are no longer made in PNC common stock, but rather in cash. Note 14 Employee Benefit Plans and Note 15 Stock
Based Compensation Plans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report include additional information regarding our employee benefit plans that use PNC common stock. 


(b)
Our current stock repurchase program allows us to purchase up to 25 million shares on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. This program was
authorized on October 4, 2007 and will remain in effect until fully utilized or until modified, superseded or terminated. The extent and timing of share repurchases under this program will depend on a number of factors including, among others,
market and general economic conditions, economic and regulatory capital considerations, alternative uses of capital, the potential impact on our credit ratings, and contractual and regulatory limitations, including the impact of the Federal
Reserve’s current supervisory assessment of capital adequacy program.  COMMON
STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH  This graph shows the cumulative total shareholder return (i.e., price
change plus reinvestment of dividends) on our common stock during the five-year period ended December 31, 2011, as compared with: (1) a selected peer group of our competitors, called the “Peer Group;” (2) an overall stock
market index, the S&P 500 Index; and (3) a published industry index, the S&P 500 Banks. The yearly points marked on the horizontal axis of the graph correspond to December 31 of that year. The stock performance graph assumes that
$100 was invested on January 1, 2007 for the five-year period and that any dividends were reinvested. The table below the graph shows the resultant compound annual growth rate for the performance period. 
  


 
































 
 
BasePeriod
 
 
 Assumes $100 investment at Close
ofMarket on December 31, 2006
Total Return = Price change plus reinvestment
of dividends
 
 
5-YearCompoundGrowthRate
 

  
 
Dec. 06
 
 
Dec. 07
 
 
Dec. 08
 
 
Dec. 09
 
 
Dec. 10
 
 
Dec. 11
 
 
  
 

 PNC
 
 
100
 
 
 
91.71
 
 
 
71.37
 
 
 
78.70
 
 
 
91.14
 
 
 
88.35
 
 
 
(2.45
)% 

 S&P 500 Index
 
 
100
 
 
 
105.49
 
 
 
66.46
 
 
 
84.05
 
 
 
96.71
 
 
 
98.76
 
 
 
(0.25
)% 

 S&P 500 Banks
 
 
100
 
 
 
70.22
 
 
 
36.87
 
 
 
34.44
 
 
 
41.27
 
 
 
36.89
 
 
 
(18.08
)% 

 Peer Group
 
 
100
 
 
 
76.73
 
 
 
43.02
 
 
 
57.56
 
 
 
72.45
 
 
 
59.35
 
 
 
(9.91
)% 
 The Peer Group for the preceding chart and table consists of the following companies: BB&T Corporation; Comerica
Inc.; Fifth Third Bancorp; KeyCorp; The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; SunTrust Banks, Inc.; U.S. Bancorp; Regions Financial Corporation; Wells Fargo & Company; Capital One Financial, Inc.; Bank of America Corporation; M&T Bank;
and JP Morgan Chase and Company. This Peer Group was approved by the Board’s Personnel and Compensation Committee (the Committee) for 2011. The Committee has approved the same Peer Group for 2012. 
Each yearly point for the Peer Group is determined by calculating the cumulative total shareholder return for each company in the Peer Group from
December 31, 2006 to December 31 of that year (End of Month Dividend Reinvestment Assumed) and then using the median of these returns as the yearly plot point.  In accordance with the rules of the SEC, this section, captioned “Common Stock Performance Graph,” shall not be incorporated by reference into any of our future filings made under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933. The Common Stock Performance Graph, including its accompanying table and footnotes, is not deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act.
 
 
26    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
ITEM 6 – SELECTED
FINANCIAL DATA   


























 
  
Year ended December 31
 

Dollars in millions, except per share data
  
2011 (a)
 
  
 
  
2010 (a)
 
 
2009 (a)
 
 
2008
 
  
2007
 



 



 

 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
  



  

  



 



 



  


 

 Interest income
  
$
    10,194
 
  

  
$
    11,150
 
 
$
    12,086
 
 
$
    6,301
 
  
$
    6,144
 

 Interest expense
  
 
1,494
 
  

  
 
1,920
 
 
 
3,003
 
 
 
2,447
 
  
 
3,197
 

 Net interest income
  
 
8,700
 
  

  
 
9,230
 
 
 
9,083
 
 
 
3,854
 
  
 
2,947
 

 Noninterest income (b)
  
 
5,626
 
  

  
 
5,946
 
 
 
7,145
 
 
 
2,442
 
  
 
2,944
 

 Total revenue
  
 
14,326
 
  

  
 
15,176
 
 
 
16,228
 
 
 
6,296
 
  
 
5,891
 

 Provision for credit losses (c)
  
 
1,152
 
  

  
 
2,502
 
 
 
3,930
 
 
 
1,517
 
  
 
315
 

 Noninterest expense
  
 
9,105
 
  

  
 
8,613
 
 
 
9,073
 
 
 
3,685
 
  
 
3,652
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests
  
 
4,069
 
  

  
 
4,061
 
 
 
3,225
 
 
 
1,094
 
  
 
1,924
 

 Income taxes
  
 
998
 
  

  
 
1,037
 
 
 
867
 
 
 
298
 
  
 
561
 

 Income from continuing operations before noncontrolling interests
  
 
3,071
 
  

  
 
3,024
 
 
 
2,358
 
 
 
796
 
  
 
1,363
 

 Income from discontinued operations (net of income taxes of zero, $338, $54, $63 and $66)
(d)
  
 
 
 
  

  
 
373
 
 
 
45
 
 
 
118
 
  
 
128
 

 Net income
  
 
3,071
 
  

  
 
3,397
 
 
 
2,403
 
 
 
914
 
  
 
1,491
 

 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
15
 
  

  
 
(15
) 
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
32
 
  
 
24
 

 Preferred stock dividends (e)
  
 
56
 
  

  
 
146
 
 
 
388
 
 
 
21
 
  


 

 Preferred stock discount accretion and redemptions (e)
  
 
2
 
  

  
 
255
 
 
 
56
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Net income attributable to common shareholders (e)
  
$
2,998
 
  

  
$
3,011
 
 
$
2,003
 
 
$
861
 
  
$
1,467
 



 



 

 PER COMMON SHARE
  



  

  



 



 



  


 

 Basic earnings
  



  

  



 



 



  


 

 Continuing operations
  
$
5.70
 
  

  
$
5.08
 
 
$
4.30
 
 
$
2.15
 
  
$
4.02
 

 Discontinued operations (d)
  
 
 
 
  

  
 
.72
 
 
 
.10
 
 
 
.34
 
  
 
.38
 

 Net income
  
$
5.70
 
  

  
$
5.80
 
 
$
4.40
 
 
$
2.49
 
  
$
4.40
 

 Diluted earnings
  



  

  



 



 



  


 

 Continuing operations
  
$
5.64
 
  

  
$
5.02
 
 
$
4.26
 
 
$
2.10
 
  
$
3.94
 

 Discontinued operations (d)
  
 
 
 
  

  
 
.72
 
 
 
.10
 
 
 
.34
 
  
 
.38
 

 Net income
  
$
5.64
 
  

  
$
5.74
 
 
$
4.36
 
 
$
2.44
 
  
$
4.32
 

 Book value
  
$
61.52
 
  

  
$
56.29
 
 
$
47.68
 
 
$
39.44
 
  
$
43.60
 

 Cash dividends declared
  
$
1.15
 
  

  
$
.40
 
 
$
.96
 
 
$
2.61
 
  
$
2.44
 



(a)
Includes the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008. 


(b)
Amount for 2009 includes recognition of a $1.1 billion pretax gain on our portion of the increase in BlackRock’s equity resulting from the value of BlackRock
shares issued in connection with BlackRock’s acquisition of Barclays Global Investors (BGI) on December 1, 2009. 


(c)
Amount for 2008 includes the $504 million conforming provision for credit losses related to our National City acquisition. 


(d)
Includes results of operations for GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related after-tax gain on sale. We sold GIS effective July 1, 2010, resulting in a gain
of $639 million, or $328 million after taxes, recognized during the third quarter of 2010. See Sale of PNC Global Investment Servicing in the Executive Summary section of Item 7 and Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 


(e)
We redeemed the Series N (TARP) Preferred Stock on February 10, 2010. In connection with the redemption, we accelerated the accretion of the remaining issuance
discount on the Series N Preferred Stock and recorded a corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $250 million in the first quarter of 2010. This resulted in a noncash reduction in net income attributable to common shareholders and related
basic and diluted earnings per share. The Series N Preferred Stock was issued on December 31, 2008.  Certain prior period
amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation, which we believe is more meaningful to readers of our consolidated financial statements.  For information regarding certain business, regulatory and legal risks, see Item 1A Risk Factors and the Risk Management section of Item 7 of this Report, and Note 22 Legal Proceedings and Note
23 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. Also, see the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information and Critical Accounting
Estimates And Judgments sections included in Item 7 of this Report for certain other factors that could cause actual results or future events to differ, perhaps materially, from historical performance and from those anticipated in the
forward-looking statements included in this Report. See also the Executive Summary section in Item 7 of this Report for additional information affecting financial performance. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    27 


Table of Contents
 


























 
  
At or for the year ended December 31
 

Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011 (a)
 
 
 
  
2010 (a)
 
 
2009 (a)
 
 
2008 (b)
 
 
2007
 



 



 

 BALANCE SHEET HIGHLIGHTS
  



 

  



 



 



 


 

 Assets
  
$
271,205
 
 

  
$
264,284
 
 
$
269,863
 
 
$
291,081
 
 
$
138,920
 

 Loans
  
 
159,014
 
 

  
 
150,595
 
 
 
157,543
 
 
 
175,489
 
 
 
68,319
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses
  
 
4,347
 
 

  
 
4,887
 
 
 
5,072
 
 
 
3,917
 
 
 
830
 

 Interest-earning deposits with banks
  
 
1,169
 
 

  
 
1,610
 
 
 
4,488
 
 
 
14,859
 
 
 
346
 

 Investment securities
  
 
60,634
 
 

  
 
64,262
 
 
 
56,027
 
 
 
43,473
 
 
 
30,225
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
2,936
 
 

  
 
3,492
 
 
 
2,539
 
 
 
4,366
 
 
 
3,927
 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
10,144
 
 

  
 
10,753
 
 
 
12,909
 
 
 
11,688
 
 
 
9,551
 

 Equity investments
  
 
10,134
 
 

  
 
9,220
 
 
 
10,254
 
 
 
8,554
 
 
 
6,045
 

 Noninterest-bearing deposits
  
 
59,048
 
 

  
 
50,019
 
 
 
44,384
 
 
 
37,148
 
 
 
19,440
 

 Interest-bearing deposits
  
 
128,918
 
 

  
 
133,371
 
 
 
142,538
 
 
 
155,717
 
 
 
63,256
 

 Total deposits
  
 
187,966
 
 

  
 
183,390
 
 
 
186,922
 
 
 
192,865
 
 
 
82,696
 

 Transaction deposits (c)
  
 
147,637
 
 

  
 
134,654
 
 
 
126,244
 
 
 
110,997
 
 
 
53,672
 

 Borrowed funds (d)
  
 
36,704
 
 

  
 
39,488
 
 
 
39,261
 
 
 
52,240
 
 
 
30,931
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
34,053
 
 

  
 
30,242
 
 
 
29,942
 
 
 
25,422
 
 
 
14,854
 

 Common shareholders’ equity
  
 
32,417
 
 

  
 
29,596
 
 
 
22,011
 
 
 
17,490
 
 
 
14,847
 



 



 

 CLIENT ASSETS (billions)
  



 

  



 



 



 


 

 Discretionary assets under management
  
$
107
 
 

  
$
108
 
 
$
103
 
 
$
103
 
 
$
74
 

 Nondiscretionary assets under management
  
 
103
 
 

  
 
104
 
 
 
102
 
 
 
125
 
 
 
112
 

 Total assets under administration
  
 
210
 
 

  
 
212
 
 
 
205
 
 
 
228
 
 
 
186
 

 Brokerage account assets (e)
  
 
34
 
 

  
 
34
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
19
 

 Total client assets
  
$
244
 
 

  
$
246
 
 
$
237
 
 
$
257
 
 
$
205
 



 



 

 SELECTED RATIOS
  



 

  



 



 



 


 

 Net interest margin (f)
  
 
3.92
% 
 

  
 
4.14
% 
 
 
3.82
% 
 
 
3.37
% 
 
 
3.00
% 

 Noninterest income to total revenue
  
 
39
 
 

  
 
39
 
 
 
44
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
50
 

 Efficiency
  
 
64
 
 

  
 
57
 
 
 
56
 
 
 
59
 
 
 
62
 

 Return on
  



 

  



 



 



 


 

 Average common shareholders’ equity
  
 
9.56
 
 

  
 
10.88
 
 
 
9.78
 
 
 
6.52
 
 
 
10.70
 

 Average assets
  
 
1.16
 
 

  
 
1.28
 
 
 
.87
 
 
 
.64
 
 
 
1.21
 

 Loans to deposits
  
 
85
 
 

  
 
82
 
 
 
84
 
 
 
91
 
 
 
83
 

 Dividend payout
  
 
20.2
 
 

  
 
6.8
 
 
 
21.4
 
 
 
104.6
 
 
 
55.0
 

 Tier 1 common
  
 
10.3
 
 

  
 
9.8
 
 
 
6.0
 
 
 
4.8
 
 
 
5.4
 

 Tier 1 risk-based
  
 
12.6
 
 

  
 
12.1
 
 
 
11.4
 
 
 
9.7
 
 
 
6.8
 

 Common shareholders’ equity to total assets
  
 
12.0
 
 

  
 
11.2
 
 
 
8.2
 
 
 
6.0
 
 
 
10.7
 

 Average common shareholders’ equity to average assets
  
 
11.9
 
 

  
 
10.4
 
 
 
7.2
 
 
 
9.6
 
 
 
11.3
 



 



 

 SELECTED STATISTICS
  



 

  



 



 



 


 

 Employees
  
 
51,891
 
 

  
 
50,769
 
 
 
55,820
 
 
 
59,595
 
 
 
28,320
 

 Retail Banking branches
  
 
2,511
 
 

  
 
2,470
 
 
 
2,513
 
 
 
2,581
 
 
 
1,102
 

 ATMs
  
 
6,806
 
 

  
 
6,673
 
 
 
6,473
 
 
 
6,233
 
 
 
3,900
 

 Residential mortgage servicing portfolio (billions)
  
$
131
 
 

  
$
139
 
 
$
158
 
 
$
187
 
 


 

 Commercial mortgage servicing portfolio (billions)
  
$
267
 
 

  
$
266
 
 
$
287
 
 
$
270
 
 
$
243
 



(a)
Includes the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008. 


(b)
Includes the impact of National City except for the following Selected Ratios: Net Interest Margin, Noninterest income to total revenue, Efficiency, Return on Average
common shareholders’ equity, Return on Average assets, Dividend payout, and Average common shareholders’ equity to average assets. 


(c)
Represents the sum of interest-bearing money market deposits, interest-bearing demand deposits, and noninterest-bearing deposits. 


(d)
Includes long-term borrowings of $20.9 billion, $24.8 billion, $26.3 billion, $33.6 billion, and $12.6 billion for 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Borrowings which mature more than one year after December 31, 2011 are considered to be long-term. 


(e)
Amounts for 2011 and 2010 include cash and money market balances. 


(f)
Calculated as taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets. The interest income earned on certain earning assets is completely or partially
exempt from federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than taxable investments. To provide more meaningful comparisons of net interest margins for all earning assets, we use net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis in calculating net interest margin by increasing the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets to make it fully equivalent to interest income earned on taxable investments. This adjustment is not permitted under accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) on the Consolidated Income Statement. The taxable-equivalent adjustments to net interest income for the years 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $104 million, $81 million, $65
million, $36 million and $27 million, respectively. 
 
28    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

ITEM 7 –
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
KEY STRATEGIC GOALS  We manage our company for the long term and focus on operating within a moderate risk profile while maintaining strong capital and liquidity positions, investing in our markets and products, and embracing
our corporate responsibility to the communities where we do business. PNC operates under a moderate risk profile which has been primarily attributable to continued improvement in our credit profile as we have experienced overall positive trends in a
number of key measures.  Our strategy to enhance shareholder value centers on driving growth in pre-tax, pre-provision earnings by achieving
growth in revenue from our balance sheet and diverse business mix that exceeds growth in expenses controlled through disciplined cost management.  The primary drivers of revenue are the acquisition, expansion and retention of customer relationships. We strive to expand our customer base by offering convenient banking options and leading technology
solutions, providing a broad range of fee-based and credit products and services, focusing on customer service, and managing a significantly enhanced branding initiative. This strategy is designed to give our customers choices based on their needs.
Rather than striving to optimize fee revenue in the short term, our approach is focused on effectively growing targeted market share and “share of wallet.” We may also grow revenue through appropriate and targeted acquisitions and, in
certain businesses, by expanding into new geographical markets.  We are focused on our strategies for quality growth. We remain committed to
maintaining a moderate risk philosophy characterized by continued improvement in a number of key measures, disciplined credit management, and the successful execution and implementation of strategic business initiatives. We have made substantial
progress in transitioning our balance sheet over the past two years, working to return to our moderate risk profile throughout our expanded franchise. Our actions have resulted in strong capital measures, created a well-positioned balance sheet, and
helped us to maintain strong liquidity and investment flexibility to adjust, where appropriate and permissible, to changing interest rates and market conditions.  We also expect to build capital via retained earnings while having opportunities to return capital to shareholders during 2012 subject to regulatory approvals. See the Funding and


Capital Sources section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section and the Liquidity Risk Management section of this Item 7 and the Supervision and Regulation section in Item 1 of
this Report.  PENDING ACQUISITION OF RBC BANK (USA) 
On June 19, 2011, PNC entered into a definitive agreement to acquire RBC Bank (USA), the US retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada, with
more than 400 branches in North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and South Carolina. The transaction is expected to add approximately $18 billion of deposits and $16 billion of loans to PNC’s Consolidated Balance Sheet and to close
in March 2012, subject to remaining customary closing conditions. See Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
FLAGSTAR BRANCH ACQUISITION  Effective December 9, 2011, PNC acquired 27 branches in the northern metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia area from Flagstar Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. We assumed approximately $210.5
million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction. Our Consolidated Income Statement includes the impact of the branch activity subsequent to our December 9, 2011 acquisition. See Note 2 Acquisition
and Divestiture Activity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
BANKATLANTIC BRANCH ACQUISITION 
Effective June 6, 2011, PNC acquired 19 branches in the greater Tampa, Florida area from BankAtlantic, a subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. We
assumed approximately $324.5 million of deposits associated with these branches. No loans were acquired in the transaction. Our Consolidated Income Statement includes the impact of the branch activity subsequent to our June 6, 2011 acquisition.
See Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
SALE OF PNC GLOBAL INVESTMENT SERVICING 
On July 1, 2010, we sold PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS), a leading provider of processing, technology and business intelligence services
to asset managers, broker-dealers and financial advisors worldwide, for $2.3 billion in cash. The pretax gain in discontinued operations recorded in the third quarter of 2010 related to this sale was $639 million, net of transaction costs, or $328
million after taxes.  Results of operations of GIS through June 30, 2010 are presented as income from discontinued operations, net of
income taxes, on our Consolidated Income Statement in this Report. Once we entered into the sales agreement, GIS was no longer a reportable business segment. See Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    29 


Table of Contents

CAPITAL AND LIQUIDITY ACTIONS
 Our ability to take certain capital actions, including plans to pay or increase common stock dividends or to repurchase shares under
current or future programs, is subject to the results of the supervisory assessment of capital adequacy undertaken by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve) and our primary bank regulators as part of the Comprehensive
Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) process. This capital adequacy assessment is based on a review of a comprehensive capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve. In connection with the annual review process for 2012 (2012 CCAR), PNC filed its
capital plan with the Federal Reserve on January 9, 2012. PNC expects to receive its results under the 2012 CCAR from the Federal Reserve by the end of the first quarter 2012. For additional information concerning the CCAR process and the
factors the Federal Reserve takes into consideration in evaluating capital plans, see Item 1 Business – Supervision and Regulation of this Report.  A summary of 2011 capital and liquidity actions follows.  On April 7, 2011, consistent
with our capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve earlier in 2011, our Board of Directors approved an increase to PNC’s quarterly common stock dividend from $.10 per common share to $.35 per common share. That capital plan also included
plans to repurchase, during the remainder of 2011, up to $500 million of common stock in open market or privately negotiated transactions under our existing share repurchase program; however, we placed those plans on hold pending regulatory approval
for the RBC Bank (USA) acquisition and did not repurchase any PNC common shares under the program during 2011. As noted above, 2012 capital actions, including dividends and repurchase plans, are subject to the results of the 2012 CCAR review
process. The discussion of capital within the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of this Item 7 includes additional information regarding our common stock repurchase program.  After entering into the acquisition agreement for RBC Bank (USA) in June 2011, we submitted an updated capital plan reflecting the proposed acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) to the Federal Reserve for review
and approval. We announced on November 29, 2011, that PNC had been notified that the Federal Reserve had no objections to the proposed revisions to the capital actions submitted by PNC as they pertain to the acquisition of RBC Bank (USA).
Accordingly, we do not plan to issue any shares of PNC common stock as part of the consideration payable to the seller at closing. On December 27, 2011 we announced that the Federal Reserve approved our acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) and that
the OCC approved the merger of RBC Bank (USA) with and into PNC Bank, N.A., which is planned to occur immediately following PNC’s acquisition of RBC Bank (USA). The closing of these transactions is scheduled for March 2012, subject to remaining
customary closing conditions. 
On July 27, 2011, we issued one million depositary shares, each representing a
1/100th interest in a share of our Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series O, in an underwritten public offering resulting in gross proceeds of $1 billion to us before commissions and expenses. We intend to use the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate
purposes, including funding for the pending RBC Bank (USA) acquisition.  On September 19, 2011, PNC Funding Corp issued $1.25 billion of
senior notes due September 2016. Interest is paid semi-annually at a fixed rate of 2.70%. The offering resulted in gross proceeds to us before offering related expenses of $1.24 billion. We intend to use the net proceeds from this offering for
general corporate purposes, including funding for the pending RBC Bank (USA) acquisition.  On November 15, 2011, we redeemed $750 million
of trust preferred securities issued by National City Capital Trust II with a current distribution rate of 6.625% and an original scheduled maturity date of November 15, 2036. The redemption price was $25 per trust preferred security plus any
accrued and unpaid distributions to the redemption date of November 15, 2011. The redemption resulted in a noncash charge for the unamortized discount of $198 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
RECENT MARKET AND INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENTS 
There have been numerous legislative and regulatory developments and dramatic changes in the competitive landscape of our industry over the last several
years.  The United States and other governments have undertaken major reform of the regulation of the financial services industry, including
engaging in new efforts to impose requirements designed to strengthen the stability of the financial system and protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. We expect to face further increased regulation of our industry as a result of
current and future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability and enhanced regulation of financial services companies and to enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions and markets. We also expect
in many cases more intense scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels. Compliance with new regulations will increase our costs and reduce our
revenue. Some new regulations may limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), enacted in July 2010, mandates the most wide-ranging overhaul of financial industry regulation in decades. Many parts of the law are now in effect and others are now in the implementation stage, which is likely
to continue for several years.  
 
30    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Until such time as the regulatory agencies issue final regulations implementing all of the numerous
provisions of Dodd-Frank, PNC will not be able to fully assess the impact the legislation will have on its businesses. However, we believe that the expected changes will be manageable for PNC and will have a smaller impact on us than on our larger
peers.  Included in these recent legislative and regulatory developments are evolving regulatory capital standards for 
financial institutions. Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve Board to establish capital requirements that would, among other things, eliminate the Tier
1 treatment of trust preferred securities following a phase-in period expected to begin in 2013. Evolving standards also include the so-called “Basel III” initiatives that are part of the effort by international banking supervisors to
improve the ability of the banking sector to absorb shocks in periods of financial and economic stress and changes by the federal banking agencies to reduce the use of credit ratings in the rules governing regulatory capital. The recent Basel III
capital initiative, which has the support of US banking regulators, includes heightened capital requirements for major banking institutions in terms of both higher quality capital and higher regulatory capital ratios. Basel III capital standards
require implementing regulations and standards by the banking regulators. Under the Basel III accord, the new Basel III capital standards will become effective under a phase-in period beginning January 1, 2013 and will be in full effect
January 1, 2019.  A number of reform provisions are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies,
including PNC, do business. We provide additional information on a number of these provisions (including new regulatory agencies (such as the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)), consumer protection regulation, enhanced capital
requirements, limitations on investment in and sponsorship of funds, risk retention by securitization participants, new regulation of derivatives, potential applicability of state consumer protection laws, and limitations on interchange fees) and
some of their potential impacts on PNC in Item 1 Business–Supervision and Regulation and Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report. 
RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE MATTERS  Beginning in the third quarter of 2010, mortgage foreclosure documentation practices among US financial institutions received heightened attention by regulators and the media. PNC’s US market share
for residential servicing is approximately 1.4% according to the National Mortgage News. The vast majority of our servicing business is on behalf of other investors, principally the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and the Federal
National Mortgage Association (FNMA).  Similar to other banks, however, we identified issues regarding some of our foreclosure practices.
Accordingly, after implementing a delay in pursuing individual


foreclosures, we have been moving forward in most jurisdictions on such matters under procedures designed to address as appropriate any documentation issues. We are also proceeding with new
foreclosures under enhanced procedures designed as part of this review to minimize the risk of errors related to the processing of documentation in foreclosure cases.  There have been, and continue to be, numerous governmental, legislative and regulatory inquiries and investigations on this topic and other issues related to mortgage lending and servicing. These
inquiries and investigations may result in significant additional actions, penalties or other remedies.  For additional information, including
with respect to some of the governmental, legislative and regulatory inquiries and investigations, please see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report, and Note 22 Legal Proceedings and Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  PNC’S PARTICIPATION
IN SELECT GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS  TARP Capital Purchase Program
 We redeemed the Series N (TARP) Preferred Stock on February 10, 2010. In connection with the redemption, we accelerated the accretion
of the remaining issuance discount on the Series N Preferred Stock and recorded a corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $250 million in the first quarter of 2010. This resulted in a one-time, noncash reduction in net income attributable to
common shareholders and related basic and diluted earnings per share. See Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Preferred Stock and Sale by US Treasury of TARP Warrant in Note 18 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8 of this Report for additional information.  FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP) 
The FDIC’s TLGP is designed to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system by: 


 
•
 
 Guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of eligible institutions, including FDIC-insured banks and thrifts, as well as certain holding
companies (TLGP-Debt Guarantee Program), and 


 
•
 
 Providing full deposit insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts in FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of the dollar amount
(TLGP-Transaction Account Guarantee Program).  PNC did not issue any securities under the TLGP-Debt Guarantee Program during
2011.  In December 2008, PNC Funding Corp issued fixed and floating rate senior notes totaling $2.9 billion under the FDIC’s TLGP-Debt
Guarantee Program. In March 2009, PNC Funding Corp issued floating rate senior notes totaling $1.0 billion under this program. Each of these series of senior notes is guaranteed through maturity by the FDIC.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    31 


Table of Contents

From October 14, 2008 through December 31, 2009, PNC Bank, National Association (PNC Bank, N.A.)
participated in the TLGP-Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Under this program, all non-interest bearing transaction accounts were fully guaranteed by the FDIC for the entire amount in the account. 
Beginning January 1, 2010, PNC Bank, N.A. ceased participating in the FDIC’s TLGP-Transaction Account Guarantee Program. Dodd-Frank, however,
extended for two years, beginning December 31, 2010, unlimited deposit insurance coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts held at all banks. Therefore, eligible accounts at PNC Bank, N.A. are again eligible for unlimited deposit
insurance, through December 31, 2012. Coverage under this extension is in addition to, and separate from, the coverage available under the FDIC’s general deposit insurance rules.  Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP)  As part of its effort to stabilize the US
housing market, in March 2009 the Obama Administration published detailed guidelines implementing HAMP, and authorized servicers to begin loan modifications. PNC began participating in HAMP through its then subsidiary National City Bank in May 2009
and directly through PNC Bank, N.A. in July 2009, and entered into an agreement on October 1, 2010 to participate in the Second Lien Program. HAMP was scheduled to terminate as of December 31, 2012; however, the Administration has
announced that the HAMP program deadline will be extended to December 31, 2013.  Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP)
 Another part of its efforts to stabilize the US housing market is the Obama Administration’s Home Affordable Refinance Program
(HARP), which provided a means for certain borrowers to refinance their mortgage loans. PNC began participating in HARP in May 2009. In 2011, the Obama Administration revised the program to increase borrower eligibility and extended it for another
twelve months with a new termination date of December 31, 2013.  KEY FACTORS AFFECTING
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE  Our financial performance is substantially affected by a number of external
factors outside of our control, including the following: 


 
•
 
 General economic conditions, including the continuity, speed and stamina of the moderate economic recovery in general and on our customers in
particular, 


 
•
 
 The level of, and direction, timing and magnitude of movement in, interest rates and the shape of the interest rate yield curve,



 
•
 
 The functioning and other performance of, and availability of liquidity in, the capital and other financial markets, 


 
•
 
 Loan demand, utilization of credit commitments and standby letters of credit, and asset quality,



 
•
 
 Customer demand for non-loan products and services, 


 
•
 
 Changes in the competitive and regulatory landscape and in counterparty creditworthiness and performance as the financial services industry
restructures in the current environment, 


 
•
 
 The impact of the extensive reforms enacted in the Dodd-Frank legislation and other legislative, regulatory and administrative initiatives, including
those outlined elsewhere in this Report, and 


 
•
 
 The impact of market credit spreads on asset valuations.  In addition, our success will depend, among other things, upon: 


 
•
 
 Further success in the acquisition, growth and retention of customers, 


 
•
 
 Continued development of the geographic markets related to our recent acquisitions, including full deployment of our product offerings,



 
•
 
 Closing the pending RBC Bank (USA) acquisition and integrating its business into PNC after closing, 


 
•
 
 Revenue growth and our ability to provide innovative and valued products to our customers, 


 
•
 
 Our ability to utilize technology to develop and deliver products and services to our customers, 


 
•
 
 Our ability to manage and implement strategic business objectives within the changing regulatory environment, 


 
•
 
 A sustained focus on expense management, 


 
•
 
 Managing the non-strategic assets portfolio and impaired assets, 


 
•
 
 Improving our overall asset quality and continuing to meet evolving regulatory capital standards, 


 
•
 
 Continuing to maintain and grow our deposit base as a low-cost funding source, 


 
•
 
 Prudent risk and capital management related to our efforts to maintain our desired moderate risk profile, 


 
•
 
 Actions we take within the capital and other financial markets, and 


 
•
 
 The impact of legal and regulatory contingencies.  For additional information, please see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Report and the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information section in this Item 7. 
SUMMARY FINANCIAL RESULTS 
 












Year ended December 31
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net income (millions)
  
$
3,071
 
 
$
3,397
 

 Diluted earnings per common share
  



 


 

 Continuing operations
  
$
5.64
 
 
$
5.02
 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
 
 
 
 
.72
 

 Net income
  
$
5.64
 
 
$
5.74
 

 Return from net income on:
  



 


 

 Average common shareholders’ equity
  
 
9.56
% 
 
 
10.88
% 

 Average assets
  
 
1.16
% 
 
 
1.28
% 
  
 
32    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Our performance in 2011 included the following: 


 
•
 
 Net income for 2011 of $3.1 billion was down 10% from 2010. Results for 2011 included $324 million for residential mortgage foreclosure-related
expenses primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters and a noncash charge of $198 million related to the redemption of trust preferred securities. Results for 2010 included $71 million of residential mortgage-related expenses, $328 million
after-tax gain on our sale of GIS, and integration expenses of $387 million, whereas the comparable amount of integration expenses for 2011 was $42 million. For 2010, net income attributable to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common
share were impacted by a noncash reduction of $250 million related to our redemption of TARP preferred stock. 


 
•
 
 Net interest income of $8.7 billion for 2011 was down 6% from 2010; net interest margin was down to 3.92% in 2011 compared with 4.14% for 2010
primarily due to the impact of lower purchase accounting accretion, a decline in average loan balances and the low interest rate environment. 


 
•
 
 Noninterest income of $5.6 billion in 2011 declined 5% compared with 2010. Noninterest income for 2011 reflected higher asset management fees that were
offset by lower corporate service fees primarily due to a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights and the impact of the rules set forth in Regulation E. The fourth quarter impact of Dodd-Frank on interchange revenue was offset
by increased customer-initiated volumes throughout 2011. 


 
•
 
 The provision for credit losses declined to $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with $2.5 billion in 2010 as overall credit quality continued to improve due
to slowly improving economic conditions and actions we took to reduce exposure levels during the year. 


 
•
 
 Noninterest expense for 2011 increased by 6% compared with 2010, to $9.1 billion primarily due to higher residential mortgage foreclosure-related
expenses and a charge for the unamortized discount related to the redemption of trust preferred securities. 


 
•
 
 Overall credit quality continued to improve during 2011. Nonperforming assets declined $967 million, or 19%, to $4.2 billion as of December 31,
2011 from December 31, 2010. Accruing loans past due increased $12 million, or less than 1%, during 2011 to $4.5 billion at year end primarily attributable to government insured or guaranteed loans. The allowance for loan and lease losses
(ALLL) was $4.3 billion, or 2.73% of total loans and 122% of nonperforming loans, as of December 31, 2011. 


 
•
 
 We remain committed to responsible lending to support economic growth. Total loan originations and new commitments and renewals totaled approximately
$147 billion for 2011, including $4.1 billion of small business loans. Total loans were $159.0 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of



 
 
 
6% from $150.6 billion at December 31, 2010. The growth in total loans exceeded the $2.4 billion decrease in Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio loans driven by customer payment activity and
portfolio management activities to reduce under-performing assets. Consolidated growth in commercial loans of $10.5 billion, auto loans of $2.2 billion, and education loans of $.4 billion was partially offset by declines of $1.7 billion in
commercial real estate loans, $1.5 billion of residential real estate loans and $1.1 billion of home equity loans compared with December 31, 2010. The $3.2 billion decrease in consolidated commercial and residential real estate loans included
$1.4 billion of Non-Strategic Assets 


 
•
 
 Portfolio loans, accounting for approximately 43% of the consolidated decline. 


 
•
 
 Total deposits were $188.0 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $183.4 billion at the prior year end. Growth in transaction deposits
(interest-bearing money market, interest-bearing demand and noninterest-bearing) continued with an increase of $13 billion, or 10%, for the year. Retail certificates of deposit were reduced by $7.8 billion, or 21%, during 2011 and deposit costs were
51 basis points, which was 19 basis points lower than in 2010. 


 
•
 
 Our higher quality balance sheet during 2011 reflected core funding with a loans to deposits ratio of 85% at year end and strong bank and holding
company liquidity positions to support growth. 


 
•
 
 We grew common shareholders’ equity by $2.8 billion during 2011. The Tier 1 common capital ratio was 10.3% at December 31, 2011, up 50 basis
points from December 31, 2010.  Our Consolidated Income Statement Review section of this Item 7 describes in
greater detail the various items that impacted our results for 2011 and 2010.  BALANCE SHEET
HIGHLIGHTS  Total assets were $271.2 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $264.3 billion at December 31,
2010. The increase from year end 2010 resulted primarily from an increase in loans and other assets somewhat offset by a decrease in investment securities and short term investments.  Various seasonal and other factors impact our period-end balances whereas average balances are generally more indicative of underlying business trends apart from the impact of acquisitions and
divestitures. The Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of this Item 7 provides information on changes in selected Consolidated Balance Sheet categories at December 31, 2011 compared with December 31, 2010. 
Total average assets were $265.3 billion for 2011 compared with $264.9 billion for 2010. Average interest-earning assets were $224.3 billion for 2011,
compared with $224.7 billion in 2010. Both comparisons were primarily driven by a $1.8
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    33 


Table of Contents


billion decrease in average total loans partially offset by a $1.7 billion increase in average total investment securities. The overall decline in average loans reflected lower loan demand, loan
repayments, dispositions and net charge-offs. The increase in total investment securities reflected net investments of excess liquidity primarily in agency residential mortgage-backed securities. 
Total loans at December 31, 2011 increased $8.4 billion to $159.0 billion compared with $150.6 billion at December 31, 2010. Average total
loans decreased $1.8 billion or 1%, to $152.0 billion, in 2011 compared with 2010 primarily as loan growth during the second half of 2011 was offset by loan decreases during the first half of 2011. The decrease in average total loans primarily
reflected declines in commercial real estate of $3.7 billion and residential real estate of $2.8 billion, partially offset by a $5.1 billion increase in commercial loans. Commercial real estate loans declined due to loan sales, paydowns, and
charge-offs. The decrease in residential real estate was impacted by portfolio management activities, paydowns and net charge-offs. Commercial loans increased due to a combination of new client acquisition and improved utilization. Loans represented
68% of average interest-earning assets for 2011 and for 2010.  Average investment securities increased $1.7 billion, to $59.7 billion, in 2011
compared with 2010. Average securities held to maturity increased $2.3 billion, to $9.4 billion, in 2011 compared with 2010. This increase was partially offset by the decrease in average securities available for sale of $.6 billion, to $50.3
billion, in 2011 compared with 2010. The increase in average securities held to maturity was primarily a result of transfers totalling $6.3 billion from securities available for sale to securities held to maturity during the second and third
quarters of 2011.  Total investment securities comprised 27% of average interest-earning assets for 2011 and 26% for 2010. 
Average noninterest-earning assets totaled $41.0 billion in 2011 compared with $40.2 billion 2010. 
Average total deposits were $183.0 billion for 2011 compared with $181.9 billion for 2010. Average deposits remained essentially flat from the prior year
period primarily as a result of decreases of $8.9 billion in average retail certificates of deposit, $.4 billion in average other time deposits, and $.4 billion in average time deposits in foreign offices, which were offset by increases of $6.6
billion in average noninterest-bearing deposits, $2.5 billion in average interest-bearing demand deposits and $1.2 billion in average savings deposits. Total deposits at December 31, 2011 were $188.0 billion compared with $183.4 billion at
December 31, 2010 and are further discussed within the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of this Report.

Average total deposits represented 69% of average total assets for 2011 and 2010. 
Average transaction deposits were $138.0 billion for 2011 compared with $128.4 billion for 2010. The continued execution of the retail deposit strategy
and customer preference for liquidity contributed to the year-over-year increase in average balances. In addition, commercial and corporate deposit growth was very strong in 2011.  Average borrowed funds were $35.7 billion for 2011 compared with $40.2 billion for 2010. Maturities of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) borrowings drove the decline compared to 2010. Total borrowed funds at
December 31, 2011 were $36.7 billion compared with $39.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and are further discussed within the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review section of this Item 7. In addition, the Liquidity Risk Management portion of
the Risk Management section of this Item 7 includes additional information regarding our sources and uses of borrowed funds. 
BUSINESS SEGMENT HIGHLIGHTS  Highlights of results for 2011 and 2010 are included below. As a result of its sale, GIS is no longer a reportable business segment.  We refer you to Item 1 of this Report under the captions Business Overview and Review of Business Segments for an overview of our business segments and to the Business Segments Review section of this
Item 7 for a Results Of Businesses – Summary table and further analysis of business segment results for 2011 and 2010, including presentation differences from Note 25 Segment Reporting in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Report.  We provide a reconciliation of total business segment earnings to PNC consolidated income from continuing
operations before noncontrolling interests as reported according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) in Note 25 Segment Reporting in our Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements of Item 8 of this
Report.  Retail Banking 
Retail Banking earned $31 million for 2011 compared with earnings of $144 million in 2010. Earnings declined from the prior year as lower revenues from
the impact of Regulation E rules related to overdraft fees, a low interest rate environment, and the regulatory impact of lower interchange fees on debit card transactions, were partially offset by a lower provision for credit losses and higher
volumes of customer-initiated transactions. Retail Banking continued to maintain its focus on growing core customers, selectively investing in the business for future growth, and disciplined expense management.
 
 
34    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Corporate & Institutional Banking  Corporate & Institutional Banking earned $1.9 billion in 2011 and $1.8 billion in 2010. The increase in earnings was primarily due to an improvement in the provision for credit losses, which was
a benefit in 2011, partially offset by a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights and lower net interest income. We continued to focus on adding new clients, increasing cross sales, and remaining committed to strong expense
discipline.  Asset Management Group  Asset Management Group earned $141 million for 2011 compared with $137 million for 2010. Assets under administration were $210 billion at December 31, 2011 and $212 billion at December 31, 2010.
Earnings for 2011 reflected a benefit from the provision for credit losses and growth in noninterest income, partially offset by higher noninterest expense and lower net interest income. For 2011, the business delivered strong sales production, grew
high value clients and benefitted from significant referrals from other PNC lines of business. Over time and with stabilized market conditions, the successful execution of these strategies and the accumulation of our strong sales performance are
expected to create meaningful growth in assets under management and noninterest income.  Residential Mortgage Banking 
Residential Mortgage Banking earned $87 million in 2011 compared with $269 million in 2010. The decline in earnings was driven by an increase in
noninterest expense associated with increased costs for residential mortgage foreclosure-related expenses, primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters, and lower net interest income, partially offset by an increase in loan originations and
higher loans sales revenue.  BlackRock  Our BlackRock business segment earned $361 million in 2011 and $351 million in 2010. The higher business segment earnings from BlackRock for 2011 compared with 2010 were primarily due to an increase in
revenue.  Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio  This business segment (formerly Distressed Assets Portfolio) consists primarily of acquired non-strategic assets that fall outside of our core business strategy. Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio had
earnings of $200 million in 2011 compared with a loss of $57 million in 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to a lower provision for credit losses partially offset by lower net interest income. 
Other  “Other” reported
earnings of $376 million for 2011 compared with earnings of $386 million for 2010. The decrease in


earnings primarily reflected the noncash charge related to the redemption of trust preferred securities in the fourth quarter of 2011 and the gain related to the sale of a portion of PNC’s
BlackRock shares in 2010 partially offset by lower integration costs in 2011.  CONSOLIDATED INCOME
STATEMENT REVIEW  Our Consolidated Income Statement is presented in Item 8 of this Report. 
Net income for 2011 was $3.1 billion compared with $3.4 billion for 2010. Results for 2011 include the impact of $324 million of residential mortgage
foreclosure-related expenses primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters, a $198 million noncash charge related to redemption of trust preferred securities and $42 million for integration costs. Results for 2010 included the $328 million
after-tax gain on our sale of GIS, $387 million for integration costs, and $71 million of residential mortgage foreclosure-related expenses. For 2010, net income attributable to common shareholders was also impacted by a noncash reduction of $250
million in connection with the redemption of TARP preferred stock. PNC’s results for 2011 were driven by good performance in a challenging environment of low interest rates, slow economic growth and new regulations. 
NET INTEREST INCOME AND NET INTEREST
MARGIN   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net interest income
  
$
8,700
 
 
$
9,230
 

 Net interest margin
  
 
3.92
% 
 
 
4.14
% 
 Changes in net interest income and margin result from the interaction of the volume and composition of interest-earning
assets and related yields, interest-bearing liabilities and related rates paid, and noninterest-bearing sources of funding. See the Statistical Information (Unaudited) – Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income and Average
Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis in Item 8 and the discussion of purchase accounting accretion in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review in Item 7 of this Report for additional information. 
The decreases in net interest income and net interest margin for 2011 compared with 2010 were primarily attributable to a decrease in purchase accounting
accretion on purchased impaired loans primarily due to lower excess cash recoveries. A decline in average loan balances and the low interest rate environment, partially offset by lower funding costs, also contributed to the decrease.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    35 


Table of Contents

The net interest margin was 3.92% for 2011 and 4.14% for 2010. The following factors impacted the
comparison: 


 
•
 
 A 41 basis point decrease in the yield on interest-earning assets. The yield on loans, the largest portion of our earning assets, decreased 38 basis
points. 


 
•
 
 These factors were partially offset by a 20 basis point decline in the rate accrued on interest-bearing liabilities. The rate accrued on
interest-bearing deposits, the largest component, decreased 19 basis points primarily in retail certificates of deposit.  We
expect our 2012 net interest income, including the results of our pending RBC Bank (USA) acquisition following closing, to increase in percentage terms by mid-to-high single digits compared to 2011 as core net interest income should continue to grow
offset by the expected decline in purchase accounting accretion, assuming the economic outlook for 2012 will be a continuation of the 2011 environment.  NONINTEREST INCOME  Noninterest income totaled $5.6
billion for 2011 and $5.9 billion for 2010. Noninterest income for 2011 reflected higher asset management fees and other income, higher residential mortgage banking revenue, and lower net other-than-temporary impairments (OTTI), that were offset by
a decrease in corporate service fees primarily due to a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights, lower service charges on deposits from the impact of Regulation E rules pertaining to overdraft fees, a decrease in net gains on
sales of securities and lower consumer services fees due, in part, to a decline in interchange fees on individual debit card transactions in the fourth quarter partially offset by higher transaction volumes throughout 2011. 
Asset management revenue, including BlackRock, increased $34 million to $1.1 billion in 2011 compared with 2010. The increase was driven by strong sales
performance by our Asset Management Group and somewhat higher equity earnings from our BlackRock investment. Discretionary assets under management at December 31, 2011 totaled $107 billion compared with $108 billion at December 31, 2010.
 For 2011, consumer services fees totaled $1.2 billion compared with $1.3 billion in 2010. The decrease was due to lower interchange rates on
debit card transactions, lower brokerage related revenue, and lower ATM related fees, partially offset by higher volumes of customer-initiated transactions including debit and credit cards. As further discussed in the Retail Banking section of the
Business Segments Review portion of this Item 7, the Dodd-Frank limits on interchange rates were effective October 1, 2011 and had a negative impact on revenues of approximately $75 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, and are expected
to have an additional incremental reduction on 2012 annual revenue of approximately $175 million, based on 2011 transaction volumes.

Corporate services revenue totaled $.9 billion in 2011 and $1.1 billion in 2010. Lower values of commercial
mortgage servicing rights, largely driven by lower interest rates and higher loan prepayment rates, and lower special servicing fees drove the decline.  Residential mortgage revenue totaled $713 million in 2011 and $699 million in 2010. Higher loans sales revenue drove the comparison, largely offset by lower net hedging gains on mortgage servicing rights
and lower servicing fees.  Service charges on deposits totaled $534 million for 2011 and $705 million for 2010. The decline resulted primarily
from the impact of Regulation E rules pertaining to overdraft fees. As further discussed in the Retail Banking section of the Business Segments Review portion of this Item 7, the new Regulation E rules related to overdraft charges negatively
impacted our 2011 revenue by approximately $200 million compared with 2010.  Net gains on sales of securities totaled $249 million for 2011
and $426 million for 2010. The net credit component of OTTI of securities recognized in earnings was a loss of $152 million in 2011, compared with a loss of $325 million in 2010.  Gains on BlackRock related transactions included a fourth quarter 2010 pretax gain of $160 million from our sale of 7.5 million BlackRock common shares as part of a BlackRock secondary common stock
offering.  Other noninterest income totaled $1.1 billion for 2011 compared with $.9 billion for 2010. 
The diversity of our revenue streams should enable us to achieve a solid performance in an environment that will continue to be affected by regulatory
reform headwinds and implementation challenges. Looking to 2012, we see opportunities for growth as a result of our larger franchise and the pending acquisition, our ability to cross-sell our products and services to existing clients and our
progress in adding new clients. We expect noninterest income to increase in percentage terms by the mid-single digits despite further regulatory impacts on debit card interchange fees, assuming the economic outlook for 2012 will be a continuation of
the 2011 environment.  PRODUCT REVENUE  In addition to credit and deposit products for commercial customers, Corporate & Institutional Banking offers other services, including treasury management, capital markets-related products and
services, and commercial mortgage banking activities for customers in all business segments. A portion of the revenue and expense related to these products is reflected in Corporate & Institutional Banking and the remainder is reflected in
the results of other businesses. The Other Information section in the Corporate & Institutional Banking table in the Business Segments Review section of
 
 
36    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


this Item 7 includes the consolidated revenue to PNC for these services. A discussion of the consolidated revenue from these services follows. 
Treasury management revenue, which includes fees as well as net interest income from customer deposit balances, totaled $1.2 billion for both 2011 and
2010. Declining deposit spreads were offset by increases in core processing products, such as lockbox and information reporting, and in growth products such as commercial card and healthcare related services. 
Revenue from capital markets-related products and services totaled $622 million in 2011 compared with $606 million in 2010. The comparison reflects
higher derivatives and foreign exchange sales and the reduced impact of counterparty credit risk on valuations of derivative positions. These increases were partially offset by lower underwriting activity. 
Commercial mortgage banking activities resulted in revenue of $112 million in 2011 compared with $262 million in 2010. This decline was primarily due to
a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights largely driven by lower interest rates and higher loan prepayment rates. 2010 included a higher level of ancillary commercial mortgage servicing fees and revenue from a duplicative
agency servicing operation that was sold in that year.  PROVISION FOR CREDIT
LOSSES  The provision for credit losses declined to $1.2 billion in 2011 compared with $2.5 billion in 2010 as overall
credit quality continued to improve due to improved economic conditions and actions we took to reduce exposure levels during the year.  We
expect our provision for credit losses in 2012 to remain stable relative to 2011 assuming the economic outlook for 2012 will be a continuation of the 2011 environment. This includes consideration of the impact of the pending RBC Bank (USA)
acquisition.  The Credit Risk Management portion of the Risk Management section of this Item 7 includes additional information regarding
factors impacting the provision for credit losses. See also Item 1A Risk Factors and the Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information section of Item 7 of this Report.  NONINTEREST EXPENSE  Noninterest expense was $9.1
billion for 2011 and $8.6 billion for 2010. Noninterest expense for 2011 included $324 million of residential mortgage foreclosure-related expenses primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters, a noncash charge of $198 million for the
unamortized discount related to redemption of trust preferred securities, and $42 million for integration costs. The comparable amounts for 2010 were $71 million, $0 and $387 million, respectively. 
 

Apart from the possible impact of legal and regulatory contingencies, charges on further trust preferred
redemptions, and RBC Bank (USA) integration expenses in 2012, and excluding the fourth quarter charge for residential mortgage foreclosure-related expenses of $240 million and the noncash charge of $198 million related to the trust preferred
securities redemption in 2011, we expect that total noninterest expense for 2012 will increase in percentage terms by mid single-digits compared to 2011. This expectation reflects flat-to-down expense for PNC stand alone and 10 months of RBC Bank
(USA) operating expenses of approximately $600 million.  In connection with the pending acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) in March 2012, we expect
to incur total merger and integration costs of approximately $170 million in the first quarter of 2012.  EFFECTIVE
INCOME TAX RATE  The effective income tax rate was 24.5% in 2011 compared with 25.5% in
2010. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to the impact of higher tax-exempt income and tax credits.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    37 


Table of Contents

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET REVIEW
 SUMMARIZED BALANCE SHEET DATA 
 












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Assets
  



  


 

 Loans
  
$
159,014
 
  
$
150,595
 

 Investment securities
  
 
60,634
 
  
 
64,262
 

 Cash and short-term investments
  
 
9,992
 
  
 
10,437
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
2,936
 
  
 
3,492
 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
10,144
 
  
 
10,753
 

 Equity investments
  
 
10,134
 
  
 
9,220
 

 Other, net
  
 
18,351
 
  
 
15,525
 

 Total assets
  
$
271,205
 
  
$
264,284
 

 Liabilities
  



  


 

 Deposits
  
$
187,966
 
  
$
183,390
 

 Borrowed funds
  
 
36,704
 
  
 
39,488
 

 Other
  
 
9,289
 
  
 
8,568
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
233,959
 
  
 
231,446
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
34,053
 
  
 
30,242
 

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
3,193
 
  
 
2,596
 

 Total equity
  
 
37,246
 
  
 
32,838
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
271,205
 
  
$
264,284
 
 The summarized balance sheet data above is based upon the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Item 8 of this Report.
 The increase in total assets at December 31, 2011 compared with December 31, 2010 was primarily due to an increase in loans and
other assets, partially offset by a decrease in investment securities.  An analysis of changes in selected balance sheet categories follows.
 LOANS 
Outstanding loan balances of $159.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and $150.6 billion at December 31, 2010 were net of unearned income, net
deferred loan fees, unamortized discounts and premiums, and purchase discounts and premiums of $2.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and $2.7 billion at December 31, 2010, respectively. The balances do not include future accretable net
interest (i.e., the difference between the undiscounted expected cash flows and the carrying value of the loan) on purchased impaired loans. 
Loans increased $8.4 billion as of December 31, 2011 compared with December 31, 2010. Growth in commercial loans of $10.5 billion, auto loans
of $2.2 billion, and education loans of $.4 billion was partially offset by declines of $1.7 billion in commercial real estate loans, $1.5 billion of residential real estate loans and $1.1 billion of home equity loans compared with December 31,
2010. Commercial loans increased due to a combination of new client acquisition and


improved utilization. Auto loans increased due to the expansion of sales force and product introduction to acquired markets, as well as overall increases in auto sales. Education loans increased
due to portfolio purchases in 2011. Commercial and residential real estate along with home equity loans declined due to loan demand being outpaced by paydowns, refinancing, and charge-offs.  Loans represented 59% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and 57% of total assets at December 31, 2010. Commercial lending represented 56% of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 and
53% at December 31, 2010. Consumer lending represented 44% of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 47% at December 31, 2010.  Commercial real estate loans represented 6% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and 7% of total assets at December 31, 2010.  Details Of Loans   












In millions
 
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 

 Commercial
 



 


 

 Retail/wholesale trade
 
$
11,539
 
 
$
9,901
 

 Manufacturing
 
 
11,453
 
 
 
9,334
 

 Service providers
 
 
9,717
 
 
 
8,866
 

 Real estate related (a)
 
 
8,488
 
 
 
7,500
 

 Financial services
 
 
6,646
 
 
 
4,573
 

 Health care
 
 
5,068
 
 
 
3,481
 

 Other industries
 
 
12,783
 
 
 
11,522
 

 Total commercial
 
 
65,694
 
 
 
55,177
 

 Commercial real estate
 



 


 

 Real estate projects
 
 
10,640
 
 
 
12,211
 

 Commercial mortgage
 
 
5,564
 
 
 
5,723
 

 Total commercial real estate
 
 
16,204
 
 
 
17,934
 

 Equipment lease financing
 
 
6,416
 
 
 
6,393
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING (b)
 
 
88,314
 
 
 
79,504
 

 Consumer
 



 


 

 Home equity
 



 


 

 Lines of credit
 
 
22,491
 
 
 
23,473
 

 Installment
 
 
10,598
 
 
 
10,753
 

 Residential real estate
 



 


 

 Residential mortgage
 
 
13,885
 
 
 
15,292
 

 Residential construction
 
 
584
 
 
 
707
 

 Credit card
 
 
3,976
 
 
 
3,920
 

 Other consumer
 



 


 

 Education
 
 
9,582
 
 
 
9,196
 

 Automobile
 
 
5,181
 
 
 
2,983
 

 Other
 
 
4,403
 
 
 
4,767
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
 
 
70,700
 
 
 
71,091
 

 Total loans
 
$
159,014
 
 
$
150,595
 



(a)
Includes loans to customers in the real estate and construction industries. 


(b)
Construction loans with interest reserves, and A/B Note restructurings are not significant to PNC.
 
 
38    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Total loans above include purchased impaired loans of $6.7 billion, or 4% of total loans, at
December 31, 2011, and $7.8 billion, or 5% of total loans, at December 31, 2010.  We are committed to providing credit and liquidity
to qualified borrowers. Total loan originations and new commitments and renewals totaled $147 billion for 2011.  Our loan portfolio continued
to be diversified among numerous industries and types of businesses in our principal geographic markets.  Commercial lending is the largest
category and is the most sensitive to changes in assumptions and judgments underlying the determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL). This estimate also considers other relevant factors such as: 


 
•
 
 Industry concentrations and conditions, 


 
•
 
 Recent credit quality trends, 


 
•
 
 Recent loss experience in particular portfolios, 


 
•
 
 Recent macro economic factors, 


 
•
 
 Changes in risk selection and underwriting standards, and 


 
•
 
 Timing of available information.  Higher Risk Loans  Our loan portfolio includes certain loans deemed to be higher
risk. As of December 31, 2011, we established specific and pooled reserves on the total commercial lending category of $2.0 billion. This commercial lending reserve included what we believe to be appropriate loss coverage on the higher risk
commercial loans in the total commercial portfolio. The commercial lending reserve represented 46% of the total ALLL of $4.3 billion at that date. The remaining 54% of ALLL pertained to the total consumer lending category, including loans with
certain attributes that we would consider to be higher risk. We do not consider government insured or guaranteed loans to be higher risk as defaults are materially mitigated by payments of insurance or guarantee amounts for approved claims.
Additional information regarding our higher risk loans is included in Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Item 8 of this Report.  Purchase Accounting  Information related to purchased impaired loans, purchase accounting accretion and accretable net interest recognized during 2011, 2010 and 2009 follows.

Total Purchase Accounting Accretion 
 












 Year ended December 31 In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Non-impaired loans
  
$
288
 
 
$
366
 

 Impaired loans
  



 


 

 Scheduled accretion
  
 
666
 
 
 
885
 

 Reversal of contractual interest on impaired loans
  
 
(395
) 
 
 
(529
) 

 Scheduled accretion net of contractual interest
  
 
271
 
 
 
356
 

 Excess cash recoveries
  
 
254
 
 
 
483
 

 Total impaired loans
  
 
525
 
 
 
839
 

 Securities
  
 
49
 
 
 
54
 

 Deposits
  
 
358
 
 
 
545
 

 Borrowings
  
 
(101
) 
 
 
(155
) 

 Total
  
$
1,119
 
 
$
1,649
 
 Total Remaining Purchase Accounting Accretion 
 
















In billions
  
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 
 
Dec. 312009
 

 Non-impaired loans
  
$
.9
 
 
$
1.2
 
 
$
1.6
 

 Impaired loans
  
 
2.1
 
 
 
2.2
 
 
 
3.5
 

 Total loans (gross)
  
 
3.0
 
 
 
3.4
 
 
 
5.1
 

 Securities
  
 
.4
 
 
 
.5
 
 
 
.5
 

 Deposits
  
 
.1
 
 
 
.5
 
 
 
1.0
 

 Borrowings
  
 
(.8
) 
 
 
(1.1
) 
 
 
(1.2
) 

 Total
  
$
2.7
 
 
$
3.3
 
 
$
5.4
 
 Accretable Net Interest – Purchased Impaired Loans 
 








In billions
  
  
 

 January 1, 2010
  
$
3.5
 

 Accretion
  
 
(.9
) 

 Excess cash recoveries
  
 
(.5
) 

 Net reclassifications to accretable from non-accretable and other activity
(a)
  
 
.1
 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
2.2
 

 Accretion
  
 
(.7
) 

 Excess cash recoveries
  
 
(.2
) 

 Net reclassifications to accretable from non-accretable and other activity
(a)
  
 
.8
 

 December 31, 2011 (b)
  
$
2.1
 



(a)
The net reclass includes the impact of improvements in the excess cash expected to be collected from credit improvements, as well as accretable differences related to
cash flow extensions. 


(b)
As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that the reversal of contractual interest on purchased impaired loans will total approximately $1.4 billion. This will reduce
the benefit of purchase accounting accretion and offset the total net accretable interest income of $2.1 billion on purchased impaired loans.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    39 


Table of Contents
Valuation of Purchased Impaired Loans 
 




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
December 31, 2009
 

Dollars in billions
  
Balance
 
 
Net Investment
 
 
Balance
 
 
Net Investment
 
 
Balance
 
 
Net Investment
 

Commercial and commercial real estate loans:
  



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Unpaid principal balance
  
$
1.0
 
 



 
$
1.8
 
 



 
$
3.5
 
 


 

 Purchased impaired mark
  
 
(.1
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.4
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.3
) 
 
 
 
 

 Recorded investment
  
 
.9
 
 



 
 
1.4
 
 



 
 
2.2
 
 


 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(.2
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.3
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.2
) 
 
 
 
 

 Net investment
  
 
.7
 
 
 
70
% 
 
 
1.1
 
 
 
61
% 
 
 
2.0
 
 
 
57
% 

Consumer and residential mortgage loans:
  



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Unpaid principal balance
  
 
6.5
 
 



 
 
7.9
 
 



 
 
11.7
 
 


 

 Purchased impaired mark
  
 
(.7
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3.6
) 
 
 
 
 

 Recorded investment
  
 
5.8
 
 



 
 
6.4
 
 



 
 
8.1
 
 


 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(.8
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.6
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.3
) 
 
 
 
 

 Net investment
  
 
5.0
 
 
 
77
% 
 
 
5.8
 
 
 
73
% 
 
 
7.8
 
 
 
67
% 

Total purchased impaired loans:
  



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Unpaid principal balance
  
 
7.5
 
 



 
 
9.7
 
 



 
 
15.2
 
 


 

 Purchased impaired mark
  
 
(.8
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1.9
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4.9
) 
 
 
 
 

 Recorded investment
  
 
6.7
 
 



 
 
7.8
 
 



 
 
10.3
 
 


 

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
(1.0
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.9
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(.5
) 
 
 
 
 

 Net investment
  
$
5.7
 
 
 
76
% 
 
$
6.9
 
 
 
71
% 
 
$
9.8
 
 
 
64
% 

 

The unpaid principal balance of purchased impaired loans declined from $9.7 billion at December 31,
2010 to $7.5 billion at December 31, 2011 due to payments, disposals, and charge-offs of amounts determined to be uncollectible. The remaining purchased impaired mark at December 31, 2011 was $.8 billion, which was a decline from $1.9
billion at December 31, 2010. The associated allowance for loan losses increased slightly by $.1 billion to $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011. The net investment of $6.9 billion at December 31, 2010 declined 17% to $5.7 billion at
December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, our largest individual purchased impaired loan had a recorded investment of $25.2 million. 
We currently expect to collect total cash flows of $7.8 billion on purchased impaired loans, representing the $5.7 billion net investment at
December 31, 2011 and the accretable net interest of $2.1 billion shown in the Accretable Net Interest-Purchased Impaired Loans table. These represent the net future cash flows on purchased impaired loans, as contractual interest will be
reversed. 
Net unfunded credit commitments are comprised of the following: 
Net Unfunded Credit Commitments   












  
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Commercial/commercial real estate (a)
  
$
64,955
 
  
$
59,256
 

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
18,317
 
  
 
19,172
 

 Credit card
  
 
16,216
 
  
 
14,725
 

 Other
  
 
3,783
 
  
 
2,652
 

 Total
  
$
103,271
 
  
$
95,805
 



(a)
Less than 4% of these amounts at each date relate to commercial real estate.  Commitments to extend credit represent arrangements to lend funds or provide liquidity subject to specified contractual conditions. Commercial commitments reported above exclude syndications, assignments
and participations, primarily to financial institutions, totaling $20.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and $16.7 billion at December 31, 2010.  Unfunded liquidity facility commitments and standby bond purchase agreements totaled $742 million at December 31, 2011 and $458 million at December 31, 2010 and are included in the preceding
table primarily within the Commercial / commercial real estate category.  In addition to the credit commitments set forth in the table above,
our net outstanding standby letters of credit totaled $10.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and $10.1 billion at December 31, 2010. Standby letters of credit commit us to make payments on behalf of our customers if specified future events
occur.  
 
40    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
Details of Investment Securities   












In millions
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  


 

 SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
  



  


 

 Debt securities
  



  


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
3,369
 
  
$
3,717
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



  


 

 Agency
  
 
26,081
 
  
 
26,792
 

 Non-agency
  
 
6,673
 
  
 
5,557
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  


 

 Agency
  
 
1,101
 
  
 
1,140
 

 Non-agency
  
 
2,693
 
  
 
2,756
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
3,854
 
  
 
3,669
 

 State and municipal
  
 
1,779
 
  
 
1,807
 

 Other debt
  
 
2,691
 
  
 
2,762
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  
 
368
 
  
 
368
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
48,609
 
  
$
48,568
 

 SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY
  



  


 

 Debt securities
  



  


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
221
 
  
$
261
 

 Residential mortgage-backed (agency)
  
 
4,761
 
  
 
4,891
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  


 

 Agency
  
 
1,332
 
  
 
1,382
 

 Non-agency
  
 
3,467
 
  
 
3,573
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
1,251
 
  
 
1,262
 

 State and municipal
  
 
671
 
  
 
702
 

 Other debt
  
 
363
 
  
 
379
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
12,066
 
  
$
12,450
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  


 

 SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
  



  


 

 Debt securities
  



  


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
5,575
 
  
$
5,710
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



  


 

 Agency
  
 
31,697
 
  
 
31,720
 

 Non-agency
  
 
8,193
 
  
 
7,233
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  


 

 Agency
  
 
1,763
 
  
 
1,797
 

 Non-agency
  
 
1,794
 
  
 
1,856
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
2,780
 
  
 
2,582
 

 State and municipal
  
 
1,999
 
  
 
1,957
 

 Other debt
  
 
3,992
 
  
 
4,077
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  
 
378
 
  
 
378
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
58,171
 
  
$
57,310
 

 SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY
  



  


 

 Debt securities
  



  


 

 Commercial mortgage-backed (non-agency)
  
$
4,316
 
  
$
4,490
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
2,626
 
  
 
2,676
 

 Other debt
  
 
10
 
  
 
11
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
6,952
 
  
$
7,177
 
 
The carrying amount of investment securities totaled $60.6 billion at December 31, 2011, a decrease of
$3.6 billion, or 6%, from $64.3 billion at December 31, 2010. The decline resulted from principal payments and net sales activity related to US Treasury and government agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. Investment
securities represented 22% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and 24% of total assets at December 31, 2010.  We evaluate our
portfolio of investment securities in light of changing market conditions and other factors and, where appropriate, take steps intended to improve our overall positioning. We consider the portfolio to be well-diversified and of high quality. US
Treasury and government agencies, agency residential mortgage-backed securities and agency commercial mortgage-backed securities collectively represented 63% of the investment securities portfolio at December 31, 2011. 
During 2011, we transferred securities with a fair value of $6.3 billion from available for sale to held to maturity. The securities were reclassified at
fair value at the time of transfer. Accumulated other comprehensive income included net pretax unrealized gains of $183 million on the securities at transfer, which are being accreted over the remaining life of the related securities as an
adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the amortization of the net premium on the same transferred securities, resulting in no impact on net income.  At December 31, 2011, the securities available for sale portfolio included a net unrealized loss of $41 million, which represented the difference between fair value and amortized cost. The comparable
amount at December 31, 2010 was a net unrealized loss of $861 million. The fair value of investment securities is impacted by interest rates, credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity conditions. The fair value of investment securities
generally decreases when interest rates increase and vice versa. In addition, the fair value generally decreases when credit spreads widen and vice versa.  The improvement in the net unrealized pretax loss compared with December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the effect of lower market interest rates. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities
available for sale portfolio are included in shareholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss from continuing operations, net of tax.  Unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities do not impact liquidity or risk-based capital. However, reductions in the credit ratings of these securities could have an impact on the
liquidity of the securities or the determination of risk-weighted assets which could reduce our regulatory capital ratios. In addition, the amount representing the credit-related portion of OTTI on available for sale securities would reduce our
earnings and regulatory capital ratios.  The expected weighted-average life of investment securities (excluding corporate stocks and other)
was 3.7 years at December 31, 2011 and 4.7 years at December 31, 2010.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    41 


Table of Contents
We estimate that, at December 31, 2011, the effective duration of investment securities was 2.6 years
for an immediate 50 basis points parallel increase in interest rates and 2.4 years for an immediate 50 basis points parallel decrease in interest rates. Comparable amounts at December 31, 2010 were 3.1 years and 2.9 years, respectively.
 The following table provides detail regarding the vintage, current credit rating, and FICO score of the underlying collateral at origination,
where available, for residential mortgage-backed, commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities held in the available for sale and held to maturity portfolios: 
 
























 
  
December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Agency
 
 
Non-agency
 
 
  
 

Dollars in millions
  
 ResidentialMortgage-
BackedSecurities
 
 
 CommercialMortgage-
BackedSecurities
 
 
 ResidentialMortgage-
BackedSecurities
 
 
 CommercialMortgage-
BackedSecurities
 
 
 Asset-
BackedSecurities
 

 Fair Value – Available for Sale
  
$
 26,792
 
 
$
 1,140
 
 
$
 5,557
  
 
$
 2,756
 
 
$
 3,669
 

 Fair Value – Held to Maturity
  
 
4,891
 
 
 
1,382
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,573
 
 
 
1,262
 

 Total Fair Value
  
$
 31,683
 
 
$
 2,522
 
 
$
 5,557
  
 
$
 6,329
 
 
$
 4,931
 

 % of Fair Value:
  



 



 



 



 


 

 By Vintage
  



 



 



 



 


 

 2011
  
 
28
% 
 
 
46
% 
 



 
 
4
% 
 


 

 2010
  
 
33
% 
 
 
19
% 
 



 
 
4
% 
 
 
6
% 

 2009
  
 
13
% 
 
 
18
% 
 



 
 
3
% 
 
 
10
% 

 2008
  
 
4
% 
 
 
2
% 
 



 



 
 
4
% 

 2007
  
 
5
% 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
18
% 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
6
% 

 2006
  
 
2
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
24
% 
 
 
26
% 
 
 
8
% 

 2005 and earlier
  
 
9
% 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
58
% 
 
 
52
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Not Available
  
 
6
% 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
56
% 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 




 

 

 By Credit Rating (at December 31, 2011)
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Agency
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 



 



 


 

 AAA
  



 



 
 
2
% 
 
 
78
% 
 
 
65
% 

 AA
  



 



 
 
1
% 
 
 
6
% 
 
 
17
% 

 A
  



 



 
 
3
% 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
1
% 

 BBB
  



 



 
 
5
% 
 
 
4
% 
 


 

 BB
  



 



 
 
5
% 
 
 
1
% 
 


 

 B
  



 



 
 
7
% 
 



 
 
2
% 

 Lower than B
  



 



 
 
76
% 
 



 
 
12
% 

 No rating
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
% 
 
 
2
% 
 
 
3
% 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 




 

 

 By FICO Score (at origination)
  



 



 



 



 


 

 >720
  



 


 
 
 
55
% 
 



 
 
3
% 

 <720 and >660
  



 


 
 
 
35
% 
 



 
 
8
% 

 <660
  



 


 
 
 
1
% 
 



 
 
2
% 

 No FICO score
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
87
% 

 Total
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 

 

We conduct a comprehensive security-level impairment assessment quarterly on all securities in an
unrealized loss position to determine whether the loss represents OTTI. Our assessment considers the security structure, recent security collateral performance metrics, external credit ratings, failure of the issuer to make scheduled interest or
principal payments, our judgment and expectations of future performance, and relevant independent industry research, analysis and forecasts. 
We also consider the severity of the impairment in our assessment. Results of the periodic assessment are reviewed


by a cross-functional senior management team representing Asset & Liability Management, Finance, and Market Risk Management. The senior management team considers the results of the
assessments, as well as other factors, in determining whether the impairment is other-than-temporary.  We recognize the credit portion of OTTI
charges in current earnings for those debt securities where we do not intend to sell and believe we will not be required to sell the securities prior to expected recovery. The noncredit portion of OTTI is included in accumulated other comprehensive
loss.  
 
42    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
We recognized OTTI for 2011 and 2010 as follows:  Other-Than-Temporary Impairments   












 Year ended December 31 In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Credit portion of OTTI losses (a)
  



 


 

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed
  
$
(130
) 
 
$
(242
) 

 Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed
  



 
 
(5
) 

 Asset-backed
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
(78
) 

 Other debt
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
 
 

 Total credit portion of OTTI losses
  
 
(152
) 
 
 
(325
) 

 Noncredit portion of OTTI losses (b)
  
 
(268
) 
 
 
(283
) 

 Total OTTI losses
  
$
(420
) 
 
$
(608
) 



(a)
Reduction of noninterest income in our Consolidated Income Statement. 


(b)
Included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  The following table summarizes net unrealized gains and losses recorded on
non-agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, which represent our most significant categories of securities not backed by the US government or its agencies. A summary of all OTTI credit losses recognized
for 2011 by investment type is included in Note 7 Investment Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 

In millions
  
Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
  
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
  
 Asset-Backed
Securities (a)
 

 Available for Sale Securities (Non-Agency)
  


 
  


 
  


 

 
  
FairValue
 
  
 Net
UnrealizedGain(Loss)
 
  
FairValue
 
  
 Net
UnrealizedGain(Loss)
 
  
FairValue
 
  
 Net
UnrealizedGain(Loss)
 

 Credit Rating Analysis
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 AAA
  
$
97
 
  
$
(1
) 
  
$
1,586
 
  
$
47
 
  
$
2,253
 
  


 

 Other Investment Grade (AA, A, BBB)
  
 
509
 
  
 
(35
) 
  
 
979
 
  
 
23
 
  
 
713
 
  
$
(13
) 

 Total Investment Grade
  
 
606
 
  
 
(36
) 
  
 
2,565
 
  
 
70
 
  
 
2,966
 
  
 
(13
) 

 BB
  
 
303
 
  
 
(27
) 
  
 
85
 
  
 
(8
) 
  



  


 

 B
  
 
403
 
  
 
(48
) 
  



  


 
  
 
107
 
  
 
(7
) 

 Lower than B
  
 
4,210
 
  
 
(1,005
) 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
568
 
  
 
(148
) 

 Total Sub-Investment Grade
  
 
4,916
 
  
 
(1,080
) 
  
 
85
 
  
 
(8
) 
  
 
675
 
  
 
(155
) 

 Total No Rating
  
 
35
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
106
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
(17
) 

 Total
  
$
5,557
 
  
$
(1,116
) 
  
$
2,756
 
  
$
63
 
  
$
3,666
 
  
$
(185
) 

 OTTI Analysis
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 Investment Grade:
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 OTTI has been recognized
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 No OTTI recognized to date
  
$
606
 
  
$
(36
) 
  
$
2,565
 
  
$
70
 
  
$
2,966
 
  
$
(13
) 

 Total Investment Grade
  
 
606
 
  
 
(36
) 
  
 
2,565
 
  
 
70
 
  
 
2,966
 
  
 
(13
) 

 Sub-Investment Grade:
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 OTTI has been recognized
  
 
3,417
 
  
 
(987
) 
  



  


 
  
 
548
 
  
 
(168
) 

 No OTTI recognized to date
  
 
1,499
 
  
 
(93
) 
  
 
85
 
  
 
(8
) 
  
 
127
 
  
 
13
 

 Total Sub-Investment Grade
  
 
4,916
 
  
 
(1,080
) 
  
 
85
 
  
 
(8
) 
  
 
675
 
  
 
(155
) 

 No Rating:
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 OTTI has been recognized
  



  


 
  



  


 
  
 
25
 
  
 
(17
) 

 No OTTI recognized to date
  
 
35
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
106
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Total No Rating
  
 
35
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
106
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
(17
) 

 Total
  
$
5,557
 
  
$
(1,116
) 
  
$
2,756
 
  
$
63
 
  
$
3,666
 
  
$
(185
) 

 Securities Held to Maturity (Non-Agency)
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 Credit Rating Analysis
  



  


 
  



  


 
  



  


 

 AAA
  



  


 
  
$
3,364
 
  
$
99
 
  
$
931
 
  
$
9
 

 Other Investment Grade (AA, A, BBB)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
209
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
219
 
  
 
(2
) 

 Total Investment Grade
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
3,573
 
  
 
106
 
  
 
1,150
 
  
 
7
 

 BB
  



  


 
  



  


 
  
 
5
 
  


 

 B
  



  


 
  



  


 
  
 
1
 
  


 

 Lower than B
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Total Sub-Investment Grade
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
 
 

 Total No Rating
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
99
 
  
 
4
 

 Total
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
3,573
 
  
$
106
 
  
$
1,255
 
  
$
11
 



(a)
Excludes $3 million and $7 million of available for sale and held to maturity agency asset-backed securities, respectively. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    43 


Table of Contents

Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities  At December 31, 2011, our residential mortgage-backed securities portfolio was comprised of $31.7 billion fair value of US government agency-backed securities and $5.6 billion fair value of
non-agency (private issuer) securities. The agency securities are generally collateralized by 1-4 family, conforming, fixed-rate residential mortgages. The non-agency securities are also generally collateralized by 1-4 family residential
mortgages. The mortgage loans underlying the non-agency securities are generally non-conforming (i.e., original balances in excess of the amount qualifying for agency securities) and predominately have interest rates that are fixed for a period of
time, after which the rate adjusts to a floating rate based upon a contractual spread that is indexed to a market rate (i.e., a “hybrid ARM”), or interest rates that are fixed for the term of the loan. 
Substantially all of the non-agency securities are senior tranches in the securitization structure and at origination had credit protection in the form
of credit enhancement, over-collateralization and/or excess spread accounts.  During 2011, we recorded OTTI credit losses of $130 million on
non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities. Almost all of the losses were associated with securities rated below investment grade. As of December 31, 2011, the noncredit portion of OTTI losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
loss for non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities totaled $987 million and the related securities had a fair value of $3.4 billion. 
The fair value of sub-investment grade investment securities for which we have not recorded an OTTI credit loss as of December 31, 2011 totaled $1.5
billion, with unrealized net losses of $93 million. The results of our security-level assessments indicate that we will recover the entire cost basis of these securities. Note 7 Investment Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements
in Item 8 of this Report provides further detail regarding our process for assessing OTTI for these securities.  Commercial
Mortgage-Backed Securities  The fair value of the non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities portfolio was $6.3 billion at
December 31, 2011 and consisted of fixed-rate, private-issuer securities collateralized by non-residential properties, primarily retail properties, office buildings, and multi-family housing. The agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
portfolio was $2.5 billion fair value at December 31, 2011 consisting of multi-family housing. Substantially all of the securities are the most senior tranches in the subordination structure.

There were no OTTI credit losses on commercial mortgage-backed securities during 2011. 
Asset-Backed Securities  The fair value
of the asset-backed securities portfolio was $4.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and consisted of fixed-rate and floating-rate, private-issuer securities collateralized primarily by various consumer credit products, including residential mortgage
loans, credit cards, automobile loans, and student loans. Substantially all of the securities are senior tranches in the securitization structure and have credit protection in the form of credit enhancement, over-collateralization and/or excess
spread accounts.  We recorded OTTI credit losses of $21 million on asset-backed securities during 2011. All of the securities are
collateralized by first and second lien residential mortgage loans and are rated below investment grade. As of December 31, 2011, the noncredit portion of OTTI losses recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss for asset-backed securities
totaled $185 million and the related securities had a fair value of $573 million.  For the sub-investment grade investment securities
(available for sale and held to maturity) for which we have not recorded an OTTI loss through December 31, 2011, the remaining fair value was $133 million, with unrealized net gains of $13 million. The results of our security-level assessments
indicate that we will recover the cost basis of these securities. Note 7 Investment Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report provides further detail regarding our process for assessing OTTI for these
securities.  If current housing and economic conditions were to worsen, and if market volatility and illiquidity were to worsen, or if market
interest rates were to increase appreciably, the valuation of our investment securities portfolio could continue to be adversely affected and we could incur additional OTTI credit losses that would impact our Consolidated Income Statement.
 
 
44    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

LOANS HELD FOR SALE 
 












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Commercial mortgages at fair value
  
$
843
 
  
$
877
 

 Commercial mortgages at lower of cost or market
  
 
451
 
  
 
330
 

 Total commercial mortgages
  
 
1,294
 
  
 
1,207
 

 Residential mortgages at fair value
  
 
1,522
 
  
 
1,878
 

 Residential mortgages at lower of cost or market
  
 
 
 
  
 
12
 

 Total residential mortgages
  
 
1,522
 
  
 
1,890
 

 Other
  
 
120
 
  
 
395
 

 Total
  
$
2,936
 
  
$
3,492
 
 We stopped originating certain commercial mortgage loans designated as held for sale in 2008 and continue pursuing
opportunities to reduce these positions at appropriate prices. We sold $25 million of these commercial mortgage loans held for sale carried at fair value in 2011 and sold $241 million in 2010. 
We recognized total net gains of $48 million in 2011 on the valuation and sale of commercial mortgage loans held for sale, net of hedges. Net losses of
$18 million on the valuation and sale of commercial mortgage loans held for sale, net of hedges, were recognized in 2010.  Residential
mortgage loan origination volume was $11.4 billion in 2011. Substantially all such loans were originated under agency or Federal Housing Administration (FHA) standards. We sold $11.9 billion of loans and recognized related gains of $282 million
during 2011. The comparable amounts for 2010 were $10.0 billion and $231 million, respectively.  Interest income on loans held for sale was
$193 million in 2011. Comparable amounts for 2010 were $263 million. These amounts are included in Other interest income on our Consolidated Income Statement.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  Goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $10.1 billion at December 31, 2011 and $10.8 billion at December 31, 2010. Goodwill increased $.1 billion, to $8.3 billion, at December 31, 2011
compared with the December 31, 2010 balance due to the BankAtlantic and Flagstar branch acquisitions and the correction of amounts for an acquisition affecting prior periods. The $.7 billion decline in other intangible assets from
December 31, 2010 included $.2 billion and $.4 billion declines in commercial and residential mortgage servicing rights, respectively. Note 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Report provides further information on these items.

FUNDING AND CAPITAL SOURCES 
Details Of Funding Sources   












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Deposits
  



  


 

 Money market
  
$
89,912
 
  
$
84,581
 

 Demand
  
 
57,717
 
  
 
50,069
 

 Retail certificates of deposit
  
 
29,518
 
  
 
37,337
 

 Savings
  
 
8,705
 
  
 
7,340
 

 Other time
  
 
327
 
  
 
549
 

 Time deposits in foreign offices
  
 
1,787
 
  
 
3,514
 

 Total deposits
  
 
187,966
 
  
 
183,390
 

 Borrowed funds
  



  


 

 Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements
  
 
2,984
 
  
 
4,144
 

 Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings
  
 
6,967
 
  
 
6,043
 

 Bank notes and senior debt
  
 
11,793
 
  
 
12,904
 

 Subordinated debt
  
 
8,321
 
  
 
9,842
 

 Other
  
 
6,639
 
  
 
6,555
 

 Total borrowed funds
  
 
36,704
 
  
 
39,488
 

 Total
  
$
224,670
 
  
$
222,878
 
 Total funding sources increased $1.8 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with December 31, 2010. 
Total deposits increased $4.6 billion, or 2%, at December 31, 2011 compared with December 31, 2010 due to an increase in money market and
demand deposits, partially offset by net redemptions of retail certificates of deposit. Interest-bearing deposits represented 69% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 compared to 73% at December 31, 2010. Total borrowed funds decreased
$2.8 billion since December 31, 2010. The decline from December 31, 2010 was primarily due to maturities of federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements, bank notes and senior debt, and subordinated debt partially offset by issuances
of FHLB borrowings.  Capital  See Capital and Liquidity Actions in the Executive Summary section of this Item 7 for additional information regarding our December 2011 announcement that the Federal Reserve approved the acquisition
of RBC Bank (USA) and that the OCC approved the merger of RBC Bank (USA) with and into PNC Bank, N.A. with this transaction scheduled to close in March 2012, our November 2011 redemption of trust preferred securities, our September 2011 issuance of
senior notes, our July 2011 issuance of preferred stock, and our April 2011 increase to PNC’s quarterly common stock dividend.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    45 


Table of Contents

We manage our capital position by making adjustments to our balance sheet size and composition, issuing
debt, equity or hybrid instruments, executing treasury stock transactions, managing dividend policies and retaining earnings.  Total
shareholders’ equity increased $3.8 billion, to $34.1 billion, at December 31, 2011 compared with December 31, 2010 as retained earnings increased $2.4 billion. The issuance of $1.0 billion of preferred stock in July 2011 contributed
to the increase in capital surplus – preferred stock from $.6 billion at December 31, 2010 to $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011. Accumulated other comprehensive loss decreased to a loss of $.1 billion, at December 31, 2011
compared with a loss of $.4 billion at December 31, 2010 due to net unrealized gains on securities and cash flow hedge derivatives, offset by an increase in accumulated other comprehensive losses related to the change in the funded status of
our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Common shares outstanding were 527 million at December 31, 2011 and 526 million at December 31, 2010.  Our current common stock repurchase program permits us to purchase up to 25 million shares of PNC common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. This program will remain in
effect until fully utilized or until modified, superseded or terminated. The extent and timing of share repurchases under this program will depend on a number of factors including, among others, market and general economic conditions, economic and
regulatory capital considerations, alternative uses of capital, the potential impact on our credit ratings, and regulatory and contractual limitations. We did not purchase any shares in 2011 under this program. See “Supervision and
Regulation” in Item 1 of this Report for further information concerning restrictions on dividends and stock repurchases, including the impact of the Federal Reserve’s current supervisory assessment of capital adequacy program which is
also discussed in the Capital and Liquidity portion of the Executive Summary section of this Item 7.

Risk-Based Capital 
 












Dollars in millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 

 Capital components
  



 


 

 Shareholders’ equity
  



 


 

 Common
  
$
32,417
 
 
$
29,596
 

 Preferred
  
 
1,636
 
 
 
646
 

 Trust preferred capital securities
  
 
2,354
 
 
 
2,907
 

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
1,351
 
 
 
1,351
 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
(9,027
) 
 
 
(9,053
) 

 Eligible deferred income taxes on goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
431
 
 
 
461
 

 Pension, other postretirement benefit plan adjustments
  
 
755
 
 
 
380
 

 Net unrealized securities losses, after-tax
  
 
41
 
 
 
550
 

 Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives, after-tax
  
 
(717
) 
 
 
(522
) 

 Other
  
 
(168
) 
 
 
(224
) 

 Tier 1 risk-based capital
  
 
29,073
 
 
 
26,092
 

 Subordinated debt
  
 
4,571
 
 
 
4,899
 

 Eligible allowance for credit losses
  
 
2,904
 
 
 
2,733
 

 Total risk-based capital
  
$
36,548
 
 
$
33,724
 

 Tier 1 common capital
  



 


 

 Tier 1 risk-based capital
  
$
29,073
 
 
$
26,092
 

 Preferred equity
  
 
(1,636
) 
 
 
(646
) 

 Trust preferred capital securities
  
 
(2,354
) 
 
 
(2,907
) 

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
(1,351
) 
 
 
(1,351
) 

 Tier 1 common capital
  
$
23,732
 
 
$
21,188
 

 Assets
  



 


 

 Risk-weighted assets, including off-balance sheet instruments and market risk equivalent assets
  
$
230,705
 
 
$
216,283
 

 Adjusted average total assets
  
 
261,958
 
 
 
254,693
 

 Capital ratios
  



 


 

 Tier 1 common
  
 
10.3
% 
 
 
9.8
% 

 Tier 1 risk-based
  
 
12.6
 
 
 
12.1
 

 Total risk-based
  
 
15.8
 
 
 
15.6
 

 Leverage
  
 
11.1
 
 
 
10.2
 
  
 
46    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Federal banking regulators have stated that they expect all bank holding companies to have a level and
composition of Tier 1 capital well in excess of the 4% regulatory minimum, and they have required the largest US bank holding companies, including PNC, to have a capital buffer sufficient to withstand losses and allow them to meet credit needs of
their customers through estimated stress scenarios. They have also stated their view that common equity should be the dominant form of Tier 1 capital. As a result, regulators are now emphasizing the Tier 1 common capital ratio in their evaluation of
bank holding company capital levels, although a formal ratio for this metric is not provided for in current regulations. We seek to manage our capital consistent with these regulatory principles, and believe that our December 31, 2011 capital
levels were aligned with them.  Dodd-Frank requires the Federal Reserve Board to establish capital requirements that would, among other
things, eliminate the Tier 1 treatment of trust preferred securities following a phase-in period expected to begin in 2013. Accordingly, PNC will evaluate its alternatives, including the potential for redemption on the first call date of some or all
of its trust preferred securities, based on such considerations it may consider relevant, including dividend rates, the specifics of the future capital requirements, capital market conditions, replacement capital covenants with respect to certain
trust preferred securities, and other factors. See Capital and Liquidity Actions in the Executive Summary section of this Item 7 for additional information regarding our November 2011 redemption of trust preferred securities and Note 13 Capital
Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on trust preferred securities. 
Our Tier 1 common capital ratio was 10.3% at December 31, 2011, an increase of 50 basis points compared with 9.8% at December 31, 2010. Our
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio increased 50 basis points to 12.6% at December 31, 2011 from 12.1% at December 31, 2010. The Tier 1 common capital ratio increased when compared with December 31, 2010 due to the retention of earnings
partially offset by higher risk-weighted assets primarily from loan growth. The increase in the Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio compared with December 31, 2010 resulted from the issuance of preferred stock in July 2011 and retention of earnings
somewhat offset by the redemption of trust preferred securities in November 2011 and higher risk-weighted assets. See Note 18 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for


additional information regarding the Series O Preferred Stock issuance.  At
December 31, 2011, PNC Bank, N.A., our domestic bank subsidiary, was considered “well capitalized” based on US regulatory capital ratio requirements under Basel I. To qualify as “well-capitalized”, regulators currently
require banks to maintain capital ratios of at least 6% for Tier 1 risk-based, 10% for total risk-based, and 5% for leverage. See the “Supervision and Regulation” section of Item 1 and Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. We believe PNC Bank, N.A., will continue to meet these requirements during 2012.  The access to, and cost of, funding for new business initiatives including acquisitions, the ability to engage in expanded business activities, the ability to pay dividends, the level of deposit insurance
costs, and the level and nature of regulatory oversight depend, in part, on a financial institution’s capital strength.  We provide
additional information regarding enhanced capital requirements and some of their potential impacts on PNC in Item 1A Risk Factors of this Report.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    47 


Table of Contents
 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES  We engage in a variety of activities that
involve unconsolidated entities or that are otherwise not reflected in our Consolidated Balance Sheet that are generally referred to as “off-balance sheet arrangements.” Additional information on these types of activities is included in
the following sections of this Report: 


 
•
 
 Commitments, including contractual obligations and other commitments, included within the Risk Management section of this Item 7,



 
•
 
 Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of
this Report, 


 
•
 
 Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Item 8 of this Report, and 


 
•
 
 Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report.
 PNC consolidates variable interest entities (VIEs) when we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary. The primary
beneficiary of a VIE is determined to be the party that meets both of the following criteria: (1) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and (2) has the obligation to absorb
losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE.  A summary of VIEs, including those
that we have consolidated and those in which we hold variable interests but have not consolidated into our financial statements, as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 is included in Note 3 in the Notes To Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. 
Trust Preferred Securities  In connection with the $950 million in principal amount of junior subordinated debentures associated with the trust preferred securities issued by PNC Capital Trusts C, D and E, as well as in connection
with the obligations that remain outstanding assumed by PNC with respect to $1.7 billion in principal amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by acquired entities in association with trust preferred securities issued by various subsidiary
statutory trusts, we are subject to certain restrictions, including restrictions on dividend payments. Generally, if there is (i) an event of default under the debentures, (ii) PNC elects to defer interest on the debentures, (iii) PNC
exercises its right to defer payments on the related trust preferred securities issued by the statutory trusts, or (iv) there is a default under PNC’s guarantee of such payment obligations, as specified in the applicable governing
documents, then PNC would be subject during the period of such default or deferral to restrictions on dividends and other provisions protecting the status of the debenture holders similar to or in some ways more restrictive than those potentially
imposed under the Exchange Agreements with Trust II and Trust III, as described in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.
 Also, in connection with the Trust E Securities sale, we are subject to a replacement capital covenant, which is described in Note 13 Capital
Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.
 
 
48    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
In addition to the following, see Note 8 Fair Value in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for further
information regarding fair value.  Assets recorded at fair value represented 25% of total assets at December 31, 2011 and 27% at
December 31, 2010. Liabilities recorded at fair value represented 4% of total liabilities at December 31, 2011 and 3% at December 31, 2010, respectively.  The following table includes the assets and liabilities measured at fair value and the portion of such assets and liabilities that are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
 




















 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

In millions
 
Total FairValue
 
 
Level 3
 
 
Total FairValue
 
 
Level 3
 

 Assets
 



 


 
 



 


 

 Securities available for sale
 
$
48,568
 
 
$
6,729
 
 
$
57,310
 
 
$
8,583
 

 Financial derivatives
 
 
9,463
 
 
 
67
 
 
 
5,757
 
 
 
77
 

 Residential mortgage loans held for sale
 
 
1,522
 
 


 
 
 
1,878
 
 


 

 Trading securities
 
 
2,513
 
 
 
39
 
 
 
1,826
 
 
 
69
 

 Residential mortgage servicing rights
 
 
647
 
 
 
647
 
 
 
1,033
 
 
 
1,033
 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale
 
 
843
 
 
 
843
 
 
 
877
 
 
 
877
 

 Equity investments
 
 
1,504
 
 
 
1,504
 
 
 
1,384
 
 
 
1,384
 

 Customer resale agreements
 
 
732
 
 


 
 
 
866
 
 


 

 Loans
 
 
227
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
116
 
 
 
2
 

 Other assets
 
 
639
 
 
 
217
 
 
 
853
 
 
 
403
 

 Total assets
 
$
66,658
 
 
$
10,051
 
 
$
71,900
 
 
$
12,428
 

 Level 3 assets as a percentage of total assets at fair value
 



 
 
15
% 
 



 
 
17
% 

 Level 3 assets as a percentage of consolidated assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
% 

 Liabilities
 



 


 
 



 


 

 Financial derivatives
 
$
7,606
 
 
$
308
 
 
$
4,935
 
 
$
460
 

 Trading securities sold short
 
 
1,016
 
 


 
 
 
2,530
 
 


 

 Other liabilities
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 

 Total liabilities
 
$
8,625
 
 
$
308
 
 
$
7,471
 
 
$
460
 

 Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of total liabilities at fair value
 



 
 
4
% 
 



 
 
6
% 

 Level 3 liabilities as a percentage of consolidated liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
<1
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
<1
% 
 The majority of Level 3 assets represent non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities in the
available for sale securities portfolio for which there was a lack of observable market activity.  During 2011, no material transfers of
assets or liabilities between the hierarchy levels occurred. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    49 


Table of Contents
 
BUSINESS SEGMENTS REVIEW 
We have six reportable business segments: 


 
•
 
 Retail Banking 


 
•
 
 Corporate & Institutional Banking 


 
•
 
 Asset Management Group 


 
•
 
 Residential Mortgage Banking 


 
•
 
 BlackRock 


 
•
 
 Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio  Once we entered into an agreement to sell GIS, it was no longer a reportable business segment. We sold GIS on July 1, 2010.  Business segment results, including inter-segment revenues, and a description of each business are included in Note 25 Segment Reporting included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Report. Certain amounts included in this Item 7 differ from those amounts shown in Note 25 primarily due to the presentation in this Item 7 of business net interest revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. 
Results of individual businesses are presented based on our management accounting practices and management structure. There is no comprehensive,
authoritative body of guidance for management accounting equivalent to GAAP; therefore, the financial results of our individual businesses are not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other company. We refine our methodologies
from time to time as our management accounting practices are enhanced and our businesses and management structure change. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect current methodologies and our current business and management
structure. Financial results are presented, to the extent practicable, as if each business operated on a stand-alone basis. Additionally, we have aggregated the results for corporate support functions within “Other” for financial reporting
purposes.  Assets receive a funding charge and liabilities and capital receive a funding credit based on a transfer pricing methodology that
incorporates product maturities, duration and other factors. 
A portion of capital is intended to cover unexpected losses and is assigned to our business segments using
our risk-based economic capital model, including consideration of the goodwill and other intangible assets at those business segments, as well as the diversification of risk among the business segments. We have revised certain capital allocations
among our business segments, including amounts for prior periods. PNC’s total capital did not change as a result of these adjustments for any periods presented. However, capital allocations to the segments were lower in the year-over-year
comparisons primarily due to improving credit quality.  We have allocated the allowances for loan and lease losses and for unfunded loan
commitments and letters of credit based on our assessment of risk in the business segment loan portfolios. Our allocation of the costs incurred by operations and other shared support areas not directly aligned with the businesses is primarily based
on the use of services.  Total business segment financial results differ from total consolidated results from continuing operations before
noncontrolling interests, which itself excludes the earnings and revenue attributable to GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related third quarter 2010 after-tax gain on the sale of GIS that are reflected in discontinued operations. The impact of
these differences is reflected in the “Other” category. “Other” for purposes of this Business Segments Review and the Business Segment Highlights in the Executive Summary includes residual activities that do not meet the criteria
for disclosure as a separate reportable business, such as gains or losses related to BlackRock transactions, integration costs, asset and liability management activities including net securities gains or losses, other-than-temporary impairment of
investment securities and certain trading activities, exited businesses, alternative investments, including private equity, intercompany eliminations, most corporate overhead, tax adjustments that are not allocated to business segments, and
differences between business segment performance reporting and financial statement reporting (GAAP), including the presentation of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, as the segments’ results exclude their portion of net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests.  
 
50    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Results Of Businesses – Summary 
(Unaudited)   




























 
  
Income (Loss)
 
 
Revenue
 
  
Average Assets (a)
 

Year ended December 31 - in millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Retail Banking
  
$
31
 
  
$
144
 
 
$
5,042
 
  
$
5,386
 
  
$
66,448
 
  
$
67,428
 

 Corporate & Institutional Banking
  
 
1,875
 
  
 
1,794
 
 
 
4,669
 
  
 
4,950
 
  
 
81,043
 
  
 
77,540
 

 Asset Management Group
  
 
141
 
  
 
137
 
 
 
887
 
  
 
884
 
  
 
6,719
 
  
 
6,954
 

 Residential Mortgage Banking
  
 
87
 
  
 
269
 
 
 
948
 
  
 
992
 
  
 
11,270
 
  
 
9,247
 

 BlackRock
  
 
361
 
  
 
351
 
 
 
464
 
  
 
462
 
  
 
5,516
 
  
 
5,428
 

 Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio
  
 
200
 
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
960
 
  
 
1,136
 
  
 
13,119
 
  
 
17,517
 

 Total business segments
  
 
2,695
 
  
 
2,638
 
 
 
12,970
 
  
 
13,810
 
  
 
184,115
 
  
 
184,114
 

 Other (b) (c)
  
 
376
 
  
 
386
 
 
 
1,356
 
  
 
1,366
 
  
 
81,220
 
  
 
80,788
 

 Income from continuing operations before noncontrolling interests (d) (e)
  
$
3,071
 
  
$
3,024
 
 
$
14,326
 
  
$
15,176
 
  
$
265,335
 
  
$
264,902
 



(a)
Period-end balances for BlackRock. 


(b)
For our segment reporting presentation in this Item 7, “Other” earnings for 2011 included a $129 million after-tax noncash charge ($198 million pretax)
for the unamortized discount related to redemption of $750 million of trust preferred securities during the fourth quarter of 2011 and $27 million of after-tax ($42 million pretax) integration costs. “Other” earnings and revenue for 2010
included a $102 million after-tax ($160 million pretax) gain related to our gain on the sale of a portion of our investment in BlackRock stock as part of a BlackRock secondary common stock offering in November 2010. “Other” earnings for
2010 included $251 million of after-tax ($387 million pretax) integration costs primarily related to acquisitions. 


(c)
“Other” average assets include securities available for sale associated with asset and liability management activities. 


(d)
Amounts are presented on a continuing operations basis and therefore exclude the earnings, revenue, and assets of GIS for the first six months of 2010 and the related
third quarter 2010 gain on the sale of GIS. 


(e)
Amounts for income for 2011 and 2010 include after-tax expenses of $210 million and $46 million ($324 million and $71 million pretax, respectively) for residential
mortgage foreclosure-related expenses, primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters. These amounts have been allocated among the following: Residential Mortgage Banking, Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio, and Other. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    51 


Table of Contents

RETAIL BANKING 
(Unaudited)   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 INCOME STATEMENT
 



 


 

 Net interest income
 
$
3,280
 
 
$
3,435
 

 Noninterest income
 



 


 

 Service charges on deposits
 
 
510
 
 
 
681
 

 Brokerage
 
 
201
 
 
 
213
 

 Consumer services
 
 
927
 
 
 
912
 

 Other
 
 
124
 
 
 
145
 

 Total noninterest income
 
 
1,762
 
 
 
1,951
 

 Total revenue
 
 
5,042
 
 
 
5,386
 

 Provision for credit losses
 
 
891
 
 
 
1,103
 

 Noninterest expense
 
 
4,103
 
 
 
4,056
 

 Pretax earnings
 
 
48
 
 
 
227
 

 Income taxes
 
 
17
 
 
 
83
 

 Earnings
 
$
31
 
 
$
144
 

 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET
 



 


 

 Loans
 



 


 

 Consumer
 



 


 

 Home equity
 
$
25,874
 
 
$
26,450
 

 Indirect auto
 
 
3,089
 
 
 
2,098
 

 Indirect other
 
 
1,478
 
 
 
1,875
 

 Education
 
 
9,103
 
 
 
8,497
 

 Credit cards
 
 
3,738
 
 
 
3,938
 

 Other
 
 
1,866
 
 
 
1,804
 

 Total consumer
 
 
45,148
 
 
 
44,662
 

 Commercial and commercial real estate
 
 
10,567
 
 
 
11,177
 

 Floor plan
 
 
1,450
 
 
 
1,336
 

 Residential mortgage
 
 
1,180
 
 
 
1,599
 

 Total loans
 
 
58,345
 
 
 
58,774
 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
 
 
5,751
 
 
 
5,861
 

 Other assets
 
 
2,352
 
 
 
2,793
 

 Total assets
 
$
66,448
 
 
$
67,428
 

 Deposits
 



 


 

 Noninterest-bearing demand
 
$
18,183
 
 
$
17,223
 

 Interest-bearing demand
 
 
22,196
 
 
 
19,776
 

 Money market
 
 
41,002
 
 
 
40,125
 

 Total transaction deposits
 
 
81,381
 
 
 
77,124
 

 Savings
 
 
8,098
 
 
 
6,938
 

 Certificates of deposit
 
 
33,006
 
 
 
41,539
 

 Total deposits
 
 
122,485
 
 
 
125,601
 

 Other liabilities
 
 
855
 
 
 
1,458
 

 Capital
 
 
8,168
 
 
 
8,439
 

 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
131,508
 
 
$
135,498
 

 PERFORMANCE RATIOS
 



 


 

 Return on average capital
 
 
–
% 
 
 
2
% 

 Return on average assets
 
 
.05
 
 
 
.21
 

 Noninterest income to total revenue
 
 
35
 
 
 
36
 

 Efficiency
 
 
81
 
 
 
75
 

 OTHER INFORMATION (a)
 



 


 

 Credit-related statistics:
 



 


 

 Commercial nonperforming assets
 
$
336
 
 
$
297
 

 Consumer nonperforming assets
 
 
513
 
 
 
422
 

 Total nonperforming assets (b)
 
$
849
 
 
$
719
 













 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 OTHER INFORMATION (CONTINUED) (a)
 



 


 

 Purchased impaired loans (c)
 
$
757
 
 
$
895
 

 Commercial lending net charge-offs
 
$
219
 
 
$
330
 

 Credit card lending net charge-offs
 
 
211
 
 
 
316
 

 Consumer lending (excluding credit card) net charge-offs
 
 
427
 
 
 
424
 

 Total net charge-offs
 
$
857
 
 
$
1,070
 

 Commercial lending net charge-off ratio
 
 
1.82
% 
 
 
2.64
% 

 Credit card lending net charge-off ratio
 
 
5.64
% 
 
 
8.02
% 

 Consumer lending (excluding credit card) net charge-off ratio
 
 
1.00
% 
 
 
1.00
% 

 Total net charge-off ratio
 
 
1.47
% 
 
 
1.82
% 

 Home equity portfolio credit statistics: (d)
 



 


 

 % of first lien positions at origination (e)
 
 
39
% 
 
 
36
% 

 Weighted-average original loan-to-value ratios (LTVs) (e)
 
 
72
% 
 
 
73
% 

 Weighted-average updated FICO scores (f)
 
 
743
 
 
 
726
 

 Net charge-off ratio
 
 
1.09
% 
 
 
.90
% 

 Loans 30 – 59 days past due
 
 
.58
% 
 
 
.49
% 

 Loans 60 – 89 days past due
 
 
.38
% 
 
 
.30
% 

 Loans 90 days past due
 
 
1.22
% 
 
 
1.02
% 

 Other statistics:
 



 


 

 ATMs
 
 
6,806
 
 
 
6,673
 

 Branches (g)
 
 
2,511
 
 
 
2,470
 

 Customer-related statistics: (in thousands)
 



 


 

 Retail Banking checking relationships
 
 
5,761
 
 
 
5,465
 

 Retail online banking active customers
 
 
3,519
 
 
 
3,057
 

 Retail online bill payment active customers
 
 
1,105
 
 
 
977
 

 Brokerage statistics:
 



 


 

 Financial consultants (h)
 
 
686
 
 
 
694
 

 Full service brokerage offices
 
 
38
 
 
 
34
 

 Brokerage account assets (billions)
 
$
34
 
 
$
34
 



(a)
Presented as of December 31, except for net charge-offs and annualized net charge-off ratios, which are for the year ended. 


(b)
Includes nonperforming loans of $810 million at December 31, 2011 and $694 million at December 31, 2010. 


(c)
Recorded investment of purchased impaired loans related to acquisitions. 


(d)
Lien position, LTV, FICO and delinquency statistics are based upon balances and other data that exclude the impact of accounting for acquired loans.



(e)
Lien positions and LTV are based upon data from loan origination. Original LTV excludes certain acquired portfolio loans where this data is not available.



(f)
Represents FICO scores that are updated monthly for home equity lines and quarterly for the home equity installment loans. 


(g)
Excludes satellite offices (e.g., drive-ups, electronic branches, retirement centers) that provide limited products and/or services. 


(h)
Financial consultants provide services in full service brokerage offices and traditional bank branches. 
Retail Banking earned $31 million for 2011 compared with earnings of $144 million in 2010. Earnings declined from the prior year as lower revenues from
the impact of Regulation E rules related to overdraft fees, a low interest rate environment, and the regulatory impact of lower interchange fees on debit card transactions were partially offset by a lower provision for credit losses and higher
volumes of customer-initiated transactions. Retail Banking continued to maintain its focus on growing core customers, selectively investing in the business for future growth, and disciplined expense management.
 
 
52    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Retail Banking’s core strategy is to grow checking deposits as a low-cost funding source and as the
cornerstone product to build valuable customer relationships. The goal is to acquire and retain customers who maintain their primary checking and transaction relationships with PNC. The business is focused on deepening its share of customers’
financial assets, including savings and liquid deposits, investable assets and loans through sales strategies, differentiated product offerings and customer satisfaction. In this challenging economic environment, Retail Banking is also focused on
expanding the use of alternative, lower cost distribution channels while continuing to optimize its traditional branch network. The business has an expansive and growing branch footprint covering nearly one-third of the U.S. population in 14 states
and Washington, D.C. with a network of 2,511 branches and 6,806 ATMs at December 31, 2011.  Successful execution of the Retail Banking
strategy in 2011 is reflected in the following: 


 
•
 
 Net new checking relationships grew 296,000 in 2011, including 41,000 from the BankAtlantic and Flagstar branch acquisitions. The growth reflects
strong results and gains in all of our markets. We are seeing strong customer retention in the overall network. 


 
•
 
 Continued success in implementing Retail Banking’s deposit strategy resulted in growth in average transaction deposits and a reduction in higher
rate certificates of deposit. In 2011 average transaction deposits grew $4.3 billion, or 6%, over 2010 and average certificates of deposit declined $8.5 billion, or 21% in accordance with our business plan. 


 
•
 
 In December 2011, Retail Banking added approximately $210 million in deposits, 9,000 checking relationships, 27 branches and 29 ATMs through the branch
acquisition from Flagstar Bank, FSB, in the northern metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia area. 


 
•
 
 In June 2011, Retail Banking added approximately $280 million in deposits, 32,000 checking relationships, 19 branches and 27 ATMs through the branch
acquisition from BankAtlantic in the greater Tampa, Florida area. 


 
•
 
 The planned acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) is expected to expand PNC’s footprint to 17 states and Washington, D.C. and nearly 2,900 branches. The
transaction is currently expected to close in March 2012 subject to remaining customary closing conditions. PNC and RBC Bank (USA) have both received regulatory approvals in relation to the respective applications filed with the regulators.



 
•
 
 Our investment in online banking capabilities continues to pay off as active online banking customers and active online bill payment customers grew by
15% and 13%, respectively, in 2011. 


 
•
 
 Retail Banking launched new checking account and credit card products during the first quarter of 2011.



 
 
 
These new products are designed to provide more choices for customers and grow value of clients for PNC. 


 
•
 
 Our award-winning Virtual
Wallet® product is providing strong momentum for customer growth. 
Total revenue for 2011 was $5.0 billion compared with $5.4 billion for 2010. Net interest income of $3.3 billion declined $155 million compared with
2010. The decrease over the prior period resulted from lower interest credits assigned to deposits, reflective of the rate environment, and lower average loan balances somewhat offset by higher demand deposit balances and a decrease in higher rate
certificates of deposit balances.  Noninterest income for 2011 declined $189 million compared to 2010. The decline was driven by lower
overdraft fees resulting from the impact of Regulation E rules and lower interchange rates on debit card transactions, partially offset by higher volumes of customer-initiated transactions including debit and credit cards. 
For 2011, Retail Banking revenue was negatively impacted by approximately $275 million compared with 2010 due to the impact of the rules set forth in
Regulation E related to overdraft fees and the Dodd-Frank limits related to interchange rates on debit card transactions. 


 
•
 
 Regulation E, which became effective in the third quarter of 2010, had an incremental negative impact to 2011 revenues of approximately $200 million
compared with 2010. 


 
•
 
 The Dodd-Frank limits related to interchange fees were effective October 1, 2011 and had a negative impact on revenues of approximately $75
million in the fourth quarter of 2011 and are expected to have an additional incremental reduction in 2012 annual revenue of approximately $175 million, based on 2011 transaction volumes. 
The provision for credit losses was $.9 billion in 2011 compared with $1.1 billion in 2010. Net charge-offs were $.9 billion for 2011 compared with $1.1
billion in the prior year. Improvements in credit quality are evident in the small business and credit card portfolios. We have continued to see increases in home equity delinquencies and as a result, we have worked with borrowers as employment and
home values have been slow to recover in this economy. The level of provisioning will be dependent on general economic conditions, loan growth, utilization of credit commitments and asset quality. 
Noninterest expense in 2011 increased $47 million from 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to selective investment in key areas of the business
largely offset by lower FDIC expenses.  Growing core checking deposits is key to the Retail Banking strategy, and is critical to growing our
overall payments business. The deposit product strategy of Retail Banking is to remain disciplined on pricing, target specific products and
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    53 


Table of Contents


markets for growth, and focus on the retention and growth of balances for relationship customers.  In 2011, average total deposits of $122.5 billion decreased $3.1 billion, or 2%, compared with 2010. 


 
•
 
 Average demand deposits increased $3.4 billion, or 9%, over 2010. The increase was primarily driven by customer growth and customer preferences for
liquidity. 


 
•
 
 Average money market deposits increased $877 million, or 2%, from 2010. The increase was primarily due to core money market growth as customers
generally preferred more liquid deposits in a low rate environment. 


 
•
 
 Average savings deposits increased $1.2 billion, or 17%, over 2010. The increase was attributable to net customer growth and new product offerings.



 
•
 
 Average consumer certificates of deposit decreased $8.5 billion or 21% from 2010. The decline is expected to continue through 2012 due to the continued
run-off of higher rate certificates of deposit.  Currently, our primary focus is on a relationship-based lending strategy
that targets specific customer sectors including mass and mass affluent consumers, small businesses and auto dealerships. In 2011, average total loans were $58.3 billion, a decrease of $429 million, or 1%, over 2010. 


 
•
 
 Average indirect auto loans increased $991 million, or 47%, over 2010. The increase was due to the expansion of our indirect sales force and product
introduction to acquired markets, as well as overall increases in auto sales.



 
•
 
 Average education loans grew $606 million, or 7%, compared with 2010, primarily due to portfolio purchases in December 2010, July 2011, and
November 2011 of approximately $450 million, $445 million, and $560 million, respectively. 


 
•
 
 Average auto dealer floor plan loans grew $114 million, or 9%, compared with 2010, primarily resulting from additional dealer relationships and higher
line utilization. 


 
•
 
 Average credit card balances decreased $200 million, or 5%, over 2010. The decrease was primarily the result of fewer active accounts generating
balances coupled with increased paydowns on existing accounts. 


 
•
 
 Average commercial and commercial real estate loans declined $610 million, or 5%, compared with 2010. The decline was primarily due to refinancings,
paydowns, and charge-offs outpacing loan demand. 


 
•
 
 Average home equity loans declined $576 million, or 2%, compared with 2010. Home equity loan demand remained soft in the current economic climate. The
decline is driven by loan demand being outpaced by paydowns, refinancings, and charge-offs. Retail Banking’s home equity loan portfolio is relationship based, with 96% of the portfolio attributable to borrowers in our primary geographic
footprint. The nonperforming assets and charge-offs that we have experienced are within our expectations given current market conditions. 


 
•
 
 Average indirect other and residential mortgages are primarily run-off portfolios and declined $397 million and $419 million, respectively, compared
with 2010. The indirect other portfolio is comprised of marine, RV, and other indirect loan products.  
 
54    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
 
CORPORATE & INSTITUTIONAL BANKING 
(Unaudited)   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 INCOME STATEMENT
  



  


 

 Net interest income
  
$
3,417
 
  
$
3,587
 

 Noninterest income
  



  


 

 Corporate service fees
  
 
767
 
  
 
961
 

 Other
  
 
485
 
  
 
402
 

 Noninterest income
  
 
1,252
  
  
 
1,363
 

 Total revenue
  
 
4,669
 
  
 
4,950
 

 Provision for credit losses (benefit)
  
 
(124
) 
  
 
303
 

 Noninterest expense
  
 
1,830
 
  
 
1,821
 

 Pretax earnings
  
 
2,963
 
  
 
2,826
 

 Income taxes
  
 
1,088
 
  
 
1,032
 

 Earnings
  
$
1,875
 
  
$
1,794
 

 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET
  



  


 

 Loans
  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
35,764
 
  
$
32,787
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
13,938
 
  
 
16,466
 

 Commercial – real estate related
  
 
3,782
 
  
 
3,076
 

 Asset-based lending
  
 
8,171
 
  
 
6,318
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
5,506
 
  
 
5,487
 

 Total loans
  
 
67,161
  
  
 
64,134
 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
3,405
 
  
 
3,613
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
1,257
 
  
 
1,473
 

 Other assets
  
 
9,220
 
  
 
8,320
 

 Total assets
  
$
81,043
 
  
$
77,540
 

 Deposits
  



  


 

 Noninterest-bearing demand
  
$
31,462
 
  
$
24,713
 

 Money market
  
 
12,925
 
  
 
12,153
 

 Other
  
 
5,651
 
  
 
6,980
 

 Total deposits
  
 
50,038
 
  
 
43,846
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
13,323
 
  
 
11,949
 

 Capital
  
 
8,010
 
  
 
8,588
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
71,371
 
  
$
64,383
  













 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 PERFORMANCE RATIOS
  



 


 

 Return on average capital
  
 
23
% 
 
 
21
% 

 Return on average assets
  
 
2.31
 
 
 
2.31
 

 Noninterest income to total revenue
  
 
27
 
 
 
28
 

 Efficiency
  
 
39
 
 
 
37
 

 COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE SERVICING PORTFOLIO (in
billions)
  



 


 

 Beginning of period
  
$
266
 
 
$
287
 

 Acquisitions/additions
  
 
43
 
 
 
35
 

 Repayments/transfers
  
 
(42
) 
 
 
(56
) 

 End of period
  
$
267
 
 
$
266
 

 OTHER INFORMATION
  



 


 

 Consolidated revenue from: (a)
  



 


 

 Treasury Management
  
$
1,187
 
 
$
1,220
 

 Capital Markets
  
$
622
 
 
$
606
 

 Commercial mortgage loans held forsale (b)
  
$
113
 
 
$
58
 

 Commercial mortgage loan servicing income, net of amortization (c)
  
 
156
 
 
 
244
 

 Commercial mortgage servicing rights (impairment)/recovery
  
 
(157
) 
 
 
(40
) 

 Total commercial mortgage banking activities
  
$
112
  
 
$
262
 

 Total loans (d)
  
$
73,417
 
 
$
63,695
 

 Net carrying amount of commercial mortgage servicing rights (d)
  
$
468
 
 
$
665
 

 Credit-related statistics:
  



 


 

 Nonperforming assets (d) (e)
  
$
1,889
 
 
$
2,594
 

 Purchased impaired loans (d) (f)
  
$
404
 
 
$
714
 

 Net charge-offs
  
$
375
 
 
$
1,074
 



(a)
Represents consolidated PNC amounts. See the additional revenue discussion regarding treasury management, capital markets-related products and services, and commercial
mortgage banking activities in the Product Revenue section of the Consolidated Income Statement Review. 


(b)
Includes valuations on commercial mortgage loans held for sale and related commitments, derivatives valuations, origination fees, gains on sale of loans held for sale
and net interest income on loans held for sale. 


(c)
Includes net interest income and noninterest income from loan servicing and ancillary services, net of commercial mortgage servicing rights amortization. Commercial
mortgage servicing rights (impairment)/recovery is shown separately. Higher amortization and impairment charges in 2011 were due primarily to decreased interest rates and related prepayments by borrowers. 


(d)
As of December 31. 


(e)
Includes nonperforming loans of $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010. 


(f)
Recorded investment of purchased impaired loans related to acquisitions.
 
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    55 


Table of Contents

Corporate & Institutional Banking earned $1.9 billion in 2011 and $1.8 billion in 2010. The
increase in earnings was primarily due to an improvement in the provision for credit losses, which was a benefit in 2011, partially offset by a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights and lower net interest income. We
continued to focus on adding new clients, increasing cross sales, and remaining committed to strong expense discipline.  Highlights of
Corporate & Institutional Banking’s performance during 2011 include the following: 


 
•
 
 Overall results benefited from successful sales efforts to new clients and product penetration of the existing customer base.



 
•
 
 New primary client acquisitions in Corporate Banking of 1,165 exceeded the 1,000 new primary clients goal for the year and represented a 15% increase
over 2010 new primary clients. 


 
•
 
 Loan commitments increased 12% to $147 billion at year end 2011, primarily in our Business Credit, Healthcare, and Public Finance businesses.



 
•
 
 Loan balances have increased steadily each quarter during 2011, including an increase in average loans for the fourth quarter of 2011 of $8.8 billion
or 14%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. 


 
•
 
 Our Treasury Management business, which ranks among the top providers in the country, continued to invest in markets, products and infrastructure as
well as major initiatives such as healthcare. 


 
•
 
 Cross sales of treasury management and capital markets products to customers in PNC’s markets continued to be successful and were ahead of both
targets and 2010. 


 
•
 
 Midland Loan Services, one of the leading third-party providers of servicing for the commercial real estate industry, received the highest U.S.
servicer and special servicer ratings from Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poor’s for the 11th consecutive year. 


 
•
 
 Midland Loan Services was the number one servicer of FNMA and FHLMC multifamily and healthcare loans and was the second leading servicer of commercial
and multifamily loans by volume as of December 31, 2011 according to Mortgage Bankers Association. 


 
•
 
 Mergers and Acquisitions Journal named Harris Williams & Co. Advisor of the Year in its March 2011 issue.
Net interest income in 2011 was $3.4 billion, a 5% decline from 2010, reflecting lower purchase accounting accretion and lower interest credits assigned
to deposits, partially offset by impacts from increases in average deposits and loans.  Corporate service fees were $767 million in 2011, a
decrease of $194 million from 2010, primarily due to a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights largely driven by lower interest rates and higher loan prepayment rates, and


lower special servicing fees. The major components of corporate service fees are treasury management, corporate finance fees and commercial mortgage servicing revenue. 
Other noninterest income was $485 million in 2011 compared with $402 million in 2010. The increase of $83 million was primarily due to valuations
associated with the commercial mortgage held-for-sale portfolio, higher revenue from multi-family agency loan production and customer driven capital markets activity.  The provision for credit losses was a benefit of $124 million in 2011 compared with a provision of $303 million in 2010. The improvement reflected continued positive migration in portfolio credit quality
which more than offset the impact of higher loan and commitment levels. Net charge-offs in 2011 of $375 million decreased $699 million, or 65%, compared with 2010. The decline was attributable primarily to the commercial real estate and aviation
portfolios. Nonperforming assets declined for the seventh consecutive quarter, and at $1.9 billion represented a 27% decrease from December 31, 2010.  Noninterest expense was $1.8 billion in both 2011 and 2010. Higher compensation-related costs were offset by the impact of the sale of a duplicative agency servicing operation in 2010, costs associated
with aviation assets held for sale in 2010, and lower legal expenses.  Average loans were $67.2 billion in 2011 compared with $64.1 billion in
2010, an increase of 5%. 


 
•
 
 The Corporate Banking business provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations,
government and not-for-profit entities, and selectively to large corporations. Average loans for this business increased $2.4 billion or 8% in 2011 compared with 2010. Loan commitments have increased since the second quarter of 2010 due to new
customers and increased demand from existing customers. 


 
•
 
 PNC Real Estate provides commercial real estate and real-estate related lending and is one of the industry’s top providers of both conventional
and affordable multifamily financing. Average loans for this business declined $1.1 billion or 7% in 2011 compared to 2010 due to loan sales, paydowns and charge-offs, partially offset by improved originations. 


 
•
 
 PNC Business Credit is one of the top asset-based lenders in the country. The loan portfolio is relatively high yielding, with moderate risk, as the
loans are mainly secured by liquid assets. Average loans increased $1.9 billion or 30% in 2011 compared with 2010 due to customers seeking stable lending sources, loan usage rates, and market expansion. We expanded our operations with the
acquisition of an asset-based lending group in the United Kingdom, completed in November 2010. Total loans acquired were approximately $300 million.
 
 
56    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents



 
•
 
 PNC Equipment Finance is the 4th largest bank-affiliated leasing company with over $9 billion in equipment finance assets.
 Average deposits were $50.0 billion in 2011, an increase of $6.2 billion, or 14%, compared with 2010. 


 
•
 
 Deposit growth has been very strong, particularly in the second half of 2011, and is an industry-wide trend as clients are holding record levels of
cash and liquidity. 


 
•
 
 Deposit inflows into noninterest-bearing demand deposits continued as FDIC insurance has been an attraction for customers maintaining liquidity during
this prolonged period of low interest rates. 


 
•
 
 The repeal of Regulation Q limitations on interest-bearing commercial demand deposit accounts became effective in the third quarter of 2011. As
expected, interest in this product has been muted due to the current rate environment and the limited amount of FDIC insurance coverage.  The commercial mortgage servicing portfolio was $267 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $266 billion December 31, 2010. Servicing additions were mostly offset by portfolio run-off.
 See the additional revenue discussion regarding treasury management, capital markets-related products and services, and commercial mortgage
banking activities in the Product Revenue section of the Consolidated Income Statement Review.

ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP 
(Unaudited)   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 INCOME STATEMENT
  



 


 

 Net interest income
  
$
238
 
 
$
256
 

 Noninterest income
  
 
649
  
 
 
628
  

 Total revenue
  
 
887
 
 
 
884
 

 Provision for credit losses (benefit)
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
20
  

 Noninterest expense
  
 
687
 
 
 
647
 

 Pretax earnings
  
 
224
  
 
 
217
  

 Income taxes
  
 
83
 
 
 
80
 

 Earnings
  
$
141
  
 
$
137
  

 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET
  



 


 

 Loans
  



 


 

 Consumer
  
$
4,108
 
 
$
4,025
 

 Commercial and commercial real estate
  
 
1,301
  
 
 
1,434
  

 Residential mortgage
  
 
706
 
 
 
850
 

 Total loans
  
 
6,115
  
 
 
6,309
  

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
361
 
 
 
399
 

 Other assets
  
 
243
  
 
 
246
  

 Total assets
  
$
6,719
 
 
$
6,954
 

 Deposits
  



 


 

 Noninterest-bearing demand
  
$
1,209
 
 
$
1,324
 

 Interest-bearing demand
  
 
2,361
  
 
 
1,835
  

 Money market
  
 
3,589
 
 
 
3,283
 

 Total transaction deposits
  
 
7,159
  
 
 
6,442
  

 CDs/IRAs/savings deposits
  
 
632
 
 
 
748
 

 Total deposits
  
 
7,791
  
 
 
7,190
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
74
 
 
 
89
 

 Capital
  
 
349
  
 
 
402
  

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
8,214
 
 
$
7,681
 

 PERFORMANCE RATIOS
  



 


 

 Return on average capital
  
 
40
% 
 
 
34
% 

 Return on average assets
  
 
2.10
  
 
 
1.97
  

 Noninterest income to total revenue
  
 
73
 
 
 
71
 

 Efficiency
  
 
77
  
 
 
73
  

 OTHER INFORMATION
  



 


 

 Total nonperforming assets (a) (b)
  
$
60
  
 
$
90
  

 Purchased impaired loans (a) (c)
  
$
127
 
 
$
146
 

 Total net charge-offs
  
$
–
  
 
$
42
  
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    57 


Table of Contents













 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION(in billions)
(a) (d)
  



  


 

 Personal
  
$
100
  
  
$
99
  

 Institutional
  
 
110
 
  
 
113
 

 Total
  
$
210
  
  
$
212
  

 Asset Type
  



  


 

 Equity
  
$
111
  
  
$
115
  

 Fixed Income
  
 
66
 
  
 
63
 

 Liquidity/Other
  
 
33
  
  
 
34
  

 Total
  
$
210
 
  
$
212
 

 Discretionary assets under management
  



  


 

 Personal
  
$
69
 
  
$
69
 

 Institutional
  
 
38
  
  
 
39
  

 Total
  
$
107
 
  
$
108
 

 Asset Type
  



  


 

 Equity
  
$
53
 
  
$
55
 

 Fixed Income
  
 
38
 
  
 
36
 

 Liquidity/Other
  
 
16
 
  
 
17
 

 Total
  
$
107
  
  
$
108
  

 Nondiscretionary assets under administration
  



  


 

 Personal
  
$
31
  
  
$
30
  

 Institutional
  
 
72
 
  
 
74
 

 Total
  
$
103
  
  
$
104
  

 Asset Type
  



  


 

 Equity
  
$
58
  
  
$
60
  

 Fixed Income
  
 
28
 
  
 
27
 

 Liquidity/Other
  
 
17
  
  
 
17
  

 Total
  
$
103
 
  
$
104
 



(a)
As of December 31. 


(b)
Includes nonperforming loans of $56 million at December 31, 2011 and $82 million at December 31, 2010. 


(c)
Recorded investment of purchased impaired loans related to acquisitions. 


(d)
Excludes brokerage account assets.  Asset
Management Group earned $141 million for 2011 compared with $137 million for 2010. Assets under administration were $210 billion at December 31, 2011 and $212 billion at December 31, 2010. Earnings for 2011 reflected a benefit from the
provision for credit losses and growth in noninterest income, partially offset by higher noninterest expense and lower net interest income. Noninterest expense increased due to continued strategic investments in the business including front-line
sales staff and new client facing technology. The core growth strategies for the business include: increasing channel penetration; investing in higher growth geographies; and investing in differentiated 
client-facing technology. For 2011, the business delivered strong sales production, grew high value clients and benefited 
from significant referrals from other PNC lines of business. Over time and with stabilized market conditions, the successful execution of these strategies
and the accumulation of our strong sales performance are expected to create meaningful growth in assets under management and noninterest income.

Highlights of Asset Management Group’s performance during 2011 include the following: 


 
•
 
 Positive net flows in both discretionary assets under management and total assets under administration; 


 
•
 
 Strong sales production, up nearly 40% over the prior year including a 26% increase in the acquisition of new high value clients;



 
•
 
 Significant referrals from other PNC lines of business, an increase of approximately 50% over 2010; 


 
•
 
 Improved credit quality and performance; 


 
•
 
 Continuing levels of new business investment and focused hiring to drive growth with nearly 300 external new hires; and



 
•
 
 Roll-out of PNC Wealth InsightSM, our new online client reporting tool.  Assets under administration were $210 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $212 billion at December 31, 2010. Discretionary assets under management were $107 billion at December 31,
2011 compared with $108 billion at December 31, 2010. The decrease in the comparisons was driven by the exit of pension related assets and flat equity markets on a comparative period end basis, offsetting strong sales performance and successful
client retention.  Total revenue for 2011 was $887 million compared with $884 million for 2010. Net interest income was $238 million for 2011
compared with $256 million for 2010. The decrease was  attributable to lower loan yields, lower loan balances and lower interest credits
assigned to deposits reflective of the current low rate environment. Noninterest income was $649 million for 2011, up $21 million from the prior year due to stronger average equity markets, increased sales and new client acquisition. Noninterest
income in the prior year benefitted from approximately $19 million of tax, termination, integration, and litigation related items that were not repeated in 2011. Excluding these items in the comparison, total noninterest income grew 6%. 
Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $24 million for 2011 reflecting improved credit quality compared with provision of $20 million for 2010. Net
charge-offs were immaterial in 2011 as charge-off activity was mitigated by significant recoveries compared with net charge-offs of $42 million in 2010.  Noninterest expense was $687 million in 2011, an increase of $40 million or 6% from the prior year. The increase was attributable to investments in the business to drive growth and higher
compensation-related costs. Asset Management Group remains focused on disciplined expense management as it invests in these strategic growth opportunities.  Average deposits of $7.8 billion for 2011 increased $601 million, or 8%, over the prior year. Average transaction deposits grew 11% compared with 2010 and were partially offset by the strategic run-off of
higher rate certificates of deposit in the comparison. Average loan balances of $6.1
 
 
58    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


billion decreased $194 million, or 3%, from the prior year primarily due to credit risk management activities within the portfolio offsetting new client acquisition. 
RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE BANKING  (Unaudited)   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 INCOME STATEMENT
  



 


 

 Net interest income
  
$
201
 
 
$
256
 

 Noninterest income
  



 


 

 Loan servicing revenue
  



 


 

 Servicing fees
  
 
226
 
 
 
242
 

 Net MSR hedging gains
  
 
220
 
 
 
245
 

 Loan sales revenue
  
 
282
 
 
 
231
 

 Other
  
 
19
 
 
 
18
 

 Total noninterest income
  
 
747
 
 
 
736
 

 Total revenue
  
 
948
 
 
 
992
 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
5
 
 
 
5
 

 Noninterest expense
  
 
797
 
 
 
563
 

 Pretax earnings
  
 
146
 
 
 
424
 

 Income taxes
  
 
59
 
 
 
155
 

 Earnings
  
$
87
 
 
$
269
 

 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET
  



 


 

 Portfolio loans
  
$
2,771
 
 
$
2,649
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
1,492
 
 
 
1,322
 

 Mortgage servicing rights (MSR)
  
 
905
 
 
 
1,017
 

 Other assets
  
 
6,102
 
 
 
4,259
 

 Total assets
  
$
11,270
 
 
$
9,247
 

 Deposits
  
$
1,675
 
 
$
2,716
 

 Borrowings and other liabilities
  
 
3,877
 
 
 
2,823
 

 Capital
  
 
731
 
 
 
919
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
6,283
 
 
$
6,458
 

 PERFORMANCE RATIOS
  



 


 

 Return on average capital
  
 
12
% 
 
 
29
% 

 Return on average assets
  
 
.77
 
 
 
2.91
 

 Noninterest income to total revenue
  
 
79
 
 
 
74
 

 Efficiency
  
 
84
 
 
 
57
 

 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE SERVICING PORTFOLIO (in
billions)
  



 


 

 Beginning of period
  
$
125
 
 
$
145
 

 Acquisitions
  
 
6
 
 


 

 Additions
  
 
12
 
 
 
10
 

 Repayments/transfers
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
(30
) 

 End of period
  
$
118
 
 
$
125
 

 Servicing portfolio statistics: (a)
  



 


 

 Fixed rate
  
 
90
% 
 
 
89
% 

 Adjustable rate/balloon
  
 
10
% 
 
 
11
% 

 Weighted-average interest rate
  
 
5.38
% 
 
 
5.62
% 

 MSR capitalized value (in billions)
  
$
.7
 
 
$
1.0
 

 MSR capitalization value (in basis points)
  
 
54
 
 
 
82
 

 Weighted-average servicing fee (in basis points)
  
 
29
 
 
 
30
 













 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 OTHER INFORMATION
  



 


 

 Loan origination volume (in billions)
  
$
11.4
 
 
$
10.5
 

 Percentage of originations represented by:
  



 


 

 Agency and government programs
  
 
100
% 
 
 
99
% 

 Refinance volume
  
 
76
% 
 
 
74
% 

 Total nonperforming assets (a) (b)
  
$
76
 
 
$
172
 

 Purchased impaired loans (a) (c)
  
$
112
 
 
$
161
 



(a)
As of December 31. 


(b)
Includes nonperforming loans of $31 million at December 31, 2011 and $109 million at December 31, 2010. 


(c)
Recorded investment of purchased impaired loans related to acquisitions.  Residential Mortgage Banking earned $87 million in 2011 compared with $269 million in 2010. The decline in earnings was driven by an increase in noninterest expense associated with increased costs for
residential mortgage foreclosure-related expenses, primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters, and lower net interest income, partially offset by an increase in loan originations and higher loans sales revenue. 
Highlights of Residential Mortgage Banking’s performance during 2011 include the following: 


 
•
 
 Total loan originations were $11.4 billion for 2011 compared with $10.5 billion in 2010. Refinance volume increased compared to the 2010 period. Loans
continue to be originated primarily through direct channels under FNMA, FHLMC and FHA/VA agency guidelines. 


 
•
 
 Investors having purchased mortgage loans may request PNC to indemnify them against losses on certain loans or to repurchase loans that they believe do
not comply with applicable contractual loan origination covenants and representations and warranties we have made. At December 31, 2011, the liability for estimated losses on repurchase and indemnification claims for the Residential Mortgage
Banking business segment was $83 million compared with $144 million at December 31, 2010. See the Recourse And Repurchase Obligations section of this Item 7 and Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 


 
•
 
 Residential mortgage loans serviced for others totalled $118 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $125 billion at December 31, 2010 as
payoffs continued to outpace new direct loan origination volume. 


 
•
 
 Noninterest income was $747 million in 2011 compared with $736 million in 2010. The increase resulted from higher loan sales revenue driven by higher
loan origination volume, partially offset by lower net hedging gains on residential mortgage servicing rights and lower loan servicing revenue.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    59 


Table of Contents



 
•
 
 Net interest income was $201 million in 2011 compared with $256 million in 2010. The decrease in the comparison was primarily due to lower interest
earned on escrow deposits. 


 
•
 
 Noninterest expense was $797 million in 2011 compared with $563 million in 2010. The increase from the prior year period was primarily due to higher
residential mortgage foreclosure-related expenses, primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters. 


 
•
 
 The fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights was $.7 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010.
The decline in fair value was primarily due to lower mortgage rates which has resulted in higher prepayment rates. 
BLACKROCK 
(Unaudited)  Information related to our
equity investment in BlackRock follows:   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Business segment earnings (a)
  
$
361
 
 
$
351
 

 PNC’s economic interest in BlackRock (b)
  
 
21
% 
 
 
20
% 



(a)
Includes PNC’s share of BlackRock’s reported GAAP earnings net of additional income taxes on those earnings incurred by PNC. 


(b)
At December 31.   












In billions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Carrying value of PNC’sinvestment in BlackRock (c)
  
$
5.3
 
  
 
$5.1
 

 Market value of PNC’sinvestment in BlackRock (d)
  
 
6.4
 
  
 
6.9
 



(c)
PNC accounts for its investment in BlackRock under the equity method of accounting, exclusive of a related deferred tax liability of $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011
and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010. 


(d)
Does not include liquidity discount.

PNC accounts for its BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock at fair value, which offsets the impact of
marking-to-market the obligation to deliver these shares to BlackRock to partially fund BlackRock LTIP programs. The fair value amount of the BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock is included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in the caption Other
assets. Additional information regarding the valuation of the BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock is included in Note 8 Fair Value in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
On September 29, 2011, PNC transferred 1.3 million shares of BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock to BlackRock to satisfy a portion of our LTIP
obligation. Upon transfer, Other assets and Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet were reduced by $172 million, representing the fair value of the shares transferred. Additional information regarding our BlackRock LTIP shares
obligation is included in Note 15 Stock Based Compensation Plans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  At December 31, 2011, approximately 1.5 million shares of BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock were available to fund a portion of awards under future BlackRock LTIP programs. 
PNC accounts for its remaining investment in BlackRock under the equity method of accounting. Our voting interest in BlackRock common stock
(approximately 24% at December 31, 2011) is higher than our overall share of BlackRock’s equity and earnings.  
 
60    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

NON-STRATEGIC ASSETS PORTFOLIO
 (Unaudited)   












 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 INCOME STATEMENT
 



 


 

 Net interest income
 
$
913
 
 
$
1,229
 

 Noninterest income
 
 
47
 
 
 
(93
) 

 Total revenue
 
 
960
 
 
 
1,136
 

 Provision for credit losses
 
 
366
 
 
 
976
 

 Noninterest expense
 
 
275
 
 
 
250
 

 Pretax earnings (loss)
 
 
319
 
 
 
(90
) 

 Income taxes (benefit)
 
 
119
 
 
 
(33
) 

 Earnings (loss)
 
$
200
 
 
$
(57
) 

 AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET
 



 


 

 Commercial Lending:
 



 


 

 Commercial/Commercial real estate
 
$
1,277
 
 
$
2,240
 

 Lease financing
 
 
712
 
 
 
781
 

 Total commercial lending
 
 
1,989
 
 
 
3,021
 

 Consumer Lending:
 



 


 

 Consumer
 
 
5,257
 
 
 
6,240
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
6,161
 
 
 
7,585
 

 Total consumer lending
 
 
11,418
 
 
 
13,825
 

 Total portfolio loans
 
 
13,407
 
 
 
16,846
 

 Other assets (a)
 
 
(288
) 
 
 
671
 

 Total assets
 
$
13,119
 
 
$
17,517
 

 Deposits and other liabilities
 
$
111
 
 
 
154
 

 Capital
 
 
1,319
 
 
 
1,621
 

 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
1,430
 
 
$
1,775
 

 PERFORMANCE RATIOS
 



 


 

 Return on average capital
 
 
15
% 
 
 
(4
)% 

 Return on average assets
 
 
1.52
 
 
 
(.33
) 

 OTHER INFORMATION
 



 


 

 Nonperforming assets (b) (c)
 
$
1,024
 
 
$
1,242
 

 Purchased impaired loans (b) (d)
 
$
5,251
 
 
$
5,879
 

 Net charge-offs (e)
 
$
370
 
 
$
677
 

 Net charge-off ratio (e)
 
 
2.76
% 
 
 
4.02
% 

 LOANS (b)
 



 


 

 Commercial Lending
 



 


 

 Commercial/Commercial real estate
 
$
976
 
 
$
1,684
 

 Lease financing
 
 
670
 
 
 
764
 

 Total commercial lending
 
 
1,646
 
 
 
2,448
 

 Consumer Lending
 



 


 

 Consumer
 
 
4,930
 
 
 
5,769
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
5,840
 
 
 
6,564
 

 Total consumer lending
 
 
10,770
 
 
 
12,333
 

 Total loans
 
$
12,416
 
 
$
14,781
 



(a)
Other assets includes deferred taxes and loan reserves. 


(b)
As of December 31. 


(c)
Includes nonperforming loans of $.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and $.9 billion at December 31, 2010. 


(d)
Recorded investment of purchased impaired loans related to acquisitions. At December 31, 2011, this segment contained 79% of PNC’s purchased impaired loans.



(e)
For the year ended December 31.

This business segment (formerly Distressed Assets Portfolio) consists primarily of acquired non-strategic
assets that fall outside of our core business strategy. Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio had earnings of $200 million in 2011 compared with a loss of $57 million in 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to a lower provision for credit losses
partially offset by lower net interest income.  Highlights of Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio’s performance during 2011 include the
following: 


 
•
 
 Average loans declined to $13.4 billion in 2011 compared with $16.8 billion in 2010. The expected decline was driven by customer payment activity and
portfolio management activities to reduce under-performing assets. 


 
•
 
 Net interest income was $.9 billion in 2011 compared with $1.2 billion in 2010. The decrease reflected lower loan balances and related purchase
accounting accretion. 


 
•
 
 Noninterest income was $47 million in 2011 compared with a loss of $93 million in 2010. 2010 included an increase to the liability for estimated losses
on repurchase and indemnification claims on brokered home equity loans sold to investors. 


 
•
 
 The provision for credit losses was $366 million in 2011 compared with $976 million in 2010. The decline was driven primarily by lower losses in first
mortgage and residential construction portfolios. 


 
•
 
 Noninterest expense in 2011 was $275 million compared with $250 million in 2010. The increase was driven by residential mortgage foreclosure-related
expenses, primarily as a result of ongoing governmental matters. 


 
•
 
 Nonperforming loans decreased to $.7 billion at December 31, 2011 compared with $.9 billion at December 31, 2010. The consumer lending
portfolio comprised 66% of the nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011. Nonperforming consumer loans increased $20 million. 


 
•
 
 Net charge-offs were $370 million in 2011 and $677 million in 2010. The decrease was due to lower charge-offs on residential real estate and commercial
real estate loans.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    61 


Table of Contents

The majority of assets within this portfolio were obtained through acquisitions and fall outside of our
core business strategy. Consequently, the business activity of this segment is to manage the wind-down of the portfolio assigned to it while maximizing the value and mitigating risk. The fair value marks taken upon acquisition of the assets, the
team we have in place, and targeted asset resolution strategies help us to manage these assets. Additionally, our capital and liquidity positions provide us flexibility in a challenging environment to optimize returns on this portfolio for our
shareholders. 


 
•
 
 The $12.4 billion of loans held in this portfolio at December 31, 2011 are stated inclusive of a fair value adjustment on purchased impaired loans
at 


 
acquisition. Taking the adjustment and the ALLL into account, the net carrying basis of this loan portfolio is 79% of customer outstandings. 


 
•
 
 The Commercial Lending portfolio within this segment is comprised of $1.0 billion in residential development loans (i.e. condominiums, townhomes,
developed and undeveloped land) and $.7 billion of performing cross-border leases. This portfolio has been reduced by 33% since December 31, 2010 driven by the decline in residential development loans. The cross-border lease portfolio has been
relatively stable. These assets are long-term and are of high credit quality. 


 
•
 
 The performance of the Consumer Lending portfolio within this segment is dependent upon economic growth, unemployment rates, the housing market
recovery and the interest rate environment. The portfolio’s credit quality performance has stabilized through actions taken by management over the last three years. Approximately 76% of customers have been current with principal and interest
payments for the past 12 months. Consumer Lending consists of consumer loans, which are mainly brokered home equity loans and lines of credit, and residential real estate mortgages. The residential real estate mortgage portfolio is composed of jumbo
and ALT-A first lien mortgages, non-prime first and second lien mortgages and, to a lesser extent, residential construction loans. Management has implemented various refinance programs, line management programs, and loss mitigation programs to
mitigate risks within these portfolios while assisting borrowers to maintain homeownership when possible. 


 
•
 
 When loans are sold, we may assume certain loan repurchase obligations associated with those loans primarily relating to situations where investors may
request PNC to indemnify them against losses or to repurchase loans that they believe do not comply with applicable contractual loan origination covenants and representations and warranties we have made. From 2005 to 2007, home equity loans were
sold with such contractual provisions. At December 31, 2011, the liability for estimated losses



 
 
 
on repurchase and indemnification claims for the Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio business segment was $47 million. No substantial additional reserves were recorded in 2011. See the Recourse And
Repurchase Obligations section of this Item 7 and Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGMENTS 
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared by applying certain accounting policies. Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report describes the most significant accounting policies that we use. Certain of these policies require us to make estimates or economic assumptions that may vary under different assumptions or conditions
and such variations may significantly affect our reported results and financial position for the period or in future periods.  Fair
Value Measurements  We must use estimates, assumptions, and judgments when assets and liabilities are required to be recorded at, or
adjusted to reflect, fair value.  Assets and liabilities carried at fair value inherently result in a higher degree of financial statement
volatility. Fair values and the information used to record valuation adjustments for certain assets and liabilities are based on either quoted market prices or are provided by independent third-party sources, including appraisers and valuation
specialists, when available. When such third-party information is not available, we estimate fair value primarily by using cash flow and other financial modeling techniques. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these
areas could materially impact our future financial condition and results of operations.  PNC applies Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
(ASC 820). This guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell a financial asset or paid to transfer a financial liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. This guidance requires
a three level hierarchy for disclosure of assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The classification of assets and liabilities within the hierarchy is based on whether the inputs to the valuation methodology used in the measurement are
observable or unobservable.  
 
62    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

The following sections of this Report provide further information on this type of activity: 


 
•
 
 Fair Value Measurements included within this Item 7, and 


 
•
 
 Note 8 Fair Value included in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. 
Allowances For Loan And Lease Losses And Unfunded Loan Commitments And Letters Of Credit 
We maintain the ALLL and the Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit at levels that we believe to be appropriate to absorb estimated
probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio and on these unfunded credit facilities as of the balance sheet date. Our determination of the allowances is based on periodic evaluations of the loan and lease portfolios and unfunded credit
facilities and other relevant factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates, all of which may be susceptible to significant change, including, among others: 


 
•
 
 Probability of default (PD), 


 
•
 
 Loss given default (LGD), 


 
•
 
 Exposure at date of default (EAD), 


 
•
 
 Movement through delinquency stages, 


 
•
 
 Amounts and timing of expected future cash flows, 


 
•
 
 Value of collateral, and 


 
•
 
 Qualitative factors such as changes in current economic conditions that may not be reflected in historical results. 
In determining the appropriateness of the ALLL, we make specific allocations to impaired loans and allocations to portfolios of commercial and consumer
loans. We also allocate reserves to provide coverage for probable losses incurred in the portfolio at the balance sheet date based upon current market conditions, which may not be reflected in historical loss data. While allocations are made to
specific loans and pools of loans, the total reserve is available for all credit losses.  Commercial lending is the largest category of
credits and is the most sensitive to changes in assumptions and judgments underlying the determination of the ALLL. We have allocated approximately $2.0 billion, or 46%, of the ALLL at December 31, 2011 to the commercial lending category.
Consumer lending allocations are made based on historical loss experience adjusted for recent activity. Approximately $2.3 billion, or 54%, of the ALLL at December 31, 2011 have been allocated to these consumer lending categories. 
To the extent actual outcomes differ from our estimates, additional provision for credit losses may be required that would reduce future earnings. See
the following for additional information: 


 
•
 
 Allowances For Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Credit Risk Management section of this Item 7



 
 
 
(which includes an illustration of the estimated impact on the aggregate of the ALLL and allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit assuming we increased pool reserve loss
rates for certain loan categories), and 


 
•
 
 Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated
Financial Statements and Allocation Of Allowance For Loan And Lease Losses in the Statistical Information (Unaudited) section of Item 8 of this Report.  Estimated Cash Flows On Purchased Impaired Loans  ASC 310-30 – Loans and Debt
Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality (formerly SOP 03-3) provides the GAAP guidance for accounting for certain loans. These loans have experienced a deterioration of credit quality from origination to acquisition for which it is
probable that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments receivable, including both principal and interest. 
In our assessment of credit quality deterioration, we must make numerous assumptions, interpretations and judgments, using internal and third-party
credit quality information to determine whether it is probable that we will be able to collect all contractually required payments. This point in time assessment is inherently subjective due to the nature of the available information and judgment
involved.  Those loans that qualify under ASC 310-30 are recorded at fair value at acquisition, which involves estimating the expected cash
flows to be received. Measurement of the fair value of the loan is based on the provisions of ASC 820. ASC 310-30 prohibits the carryover or establishment of an allowance for loan losses on the acquisition date. 
Subsequent to the acquisition of the loan, we are required to continue to estimate cash flows expected to be collected over the life of the loan. The
measurement of expected cash flows involves assumptions and judgments as to credit risk, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, default rates, loss severity, payment speeds and collateral values. All of these factors are inherently subjective and can
result in significant changes in the cash flow estimates over the life of the loan. Such changes in expected cash flows could increase future earnings volatility due to increases or decreases in the accretable yield (i.e., the difference between the
undiscounted expected cash flows and the recorded investment in the loan). The accretable yield is recognized as interest income on a constant effective yield method over the life of the loan. In addition, changes in expected cash flows could result
in the recognition of impairment through provision for credit losses if the decline in expected cash flows is attributable to a decline in credit quality.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    63 


Table of Contents

Goodwill  Goodwill arising from business acquisitions represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements in the business acquired. Most of our goodwill relates to value inherent in the Retail
Banking and Corporate & Institutional Banking businesses. The value of this goodwill is dependent upon our ability to provide quality, cost effective services in the face of competition from other market participants on a national and, with
respect to some products and services, an international basis. We also rely upon continuing investments in processing systems, the development of value-added service features, and the ease of access by customers to our services. 
As such, the value of goodwill is supported by earnings, which is driven by transaction volume and, for certain businesses, the market value of assets
under administration or for which processing services are provided. Lower earnings resulting from a lack of growth or our inability to deliver cost-effective services over sustained periods can lead to impairment of goodwill, which could result in a
current period charge to earnings. At least annually, in the fourth quarter, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances have changed significantly from the annual test date, management reviews the current operating environment and strategic
direction of each reporting unit taking into consideration any events or changes in circumstances that may have an effect on the unit. For this review, inputs are generated and used in calculating the fair value of the reporting unit, which is
compared to its carrying value. A reporting unit is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the reporting unit is not considered impaired. However,
if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the reporting unit’s goodwill would be evaluated for impairment. In this circumstance, the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill would be compared to the carrying
amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the difference is recognized as an impairment loss. The implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill is determined by assigning the fair value
of a reporting unit to its assets and liabilities (including any unrecognized intangible assets) with the residual amount equal to the implied fair value of goodwill as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. 
The fair values of our reporting units are determined using a discounted cash flow valuation model, with assumptions based upon market comparables, and
in certain instances we may also consider additional fair value market indicators. Based on the results of our analysis, there have been no impairment charges related to goodwill in 2011, 2010 or 2009. Despite the impact of challenging market
conditions and Dodd-Frank regulations on earnings, we believe our Retail Banking reporting unit is well positioned given expected long-term growth in deposits (including the impact of continued run off of higher rate CDs), its demonstrated ability
to acquire


new customers while retaining existing ones, based in part upon a suite of best-in-class products that are continually enhanced (e.g., Virtual Wallet®, Business Banking’s Cash Flow OptionsSM, and credit cards), expansion into new markets with above average demographic growth attributes, cross-sell
opportunities for existing and new customers, a focus on retirement and investment services for the mass and mass affluent customer sectors, a scale that helps lower per unit cost for increased regulatory costs, and disciplined expense management.
 See Note 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for
additional information.  Lease Residuals  We provide financing for various types of equipment, aircraft, energy and power systems, and rolling stock and automobiles through a variety of lease arrangements. Direct financing leases are carried at
the sum of lease payments and the estimated residual value of the leased property, less unearned income. Residual value insurance or guarantees by governmental entities provide support for a significant portion of the residual value. Residual values
are subject to judgments as to the value of the underlying equipment that can be affected by changes in economic and market conditions and the financial viability of the residual guarantors and insurers. Residual values are derived from historical
remarketing experience, secondary market contacts, and industry publications. To the extent not guaranteed or assumed by a third-party, or otherwise insured against, we bear the risk of ownership of the leased assets. This includes the risk that the
actual value of the leased assets at the end of the lease term will be less than the residual value, which could result in an impairment charge and reduce earnings in the future. Residual values are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.
 Revenue Recognition 
We earn net interest and noninterest income from various sources, including: 


 
•
 
 Lending, 


 
•
 
 Securities portfolio, 


 
•
 
 Asset management, 


 
•
 
 Customer deposits, 


 
•
 
 Loan sales and servicing, 


 
•
 
 Brokerage services, 


 
•
 
 Sale of loans and securities, 


 
•
 
 Certain private equity activities, and 


 
•
 
 Securities and derivatives trading activities including foreign exchange.  We also earn fees and commissions from issuing loan commitments, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, selling various insurance products, providing treasury management services, providing
merger and acquisition advisory and related services, and participating in certain capital markets transactions. Revenue earned on
 
 
64    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


interest-earning assets including unearned income in the accretion of fair value adjustments on discounts recognized on acquired or purchased loans is recognized based on the constant effective
yield of the financial instrument.  The timing and amount of revenue that we recognize in any period is dependent on estimates, judgments,
assumptions, and interpretation of contractual terms. Changes in these factors can have a significant impact on revenue recognized in any period due to changes in products, market conditions or industry norms. 
Residential And Commercial Mortgage Servicing Rights  We elect to measure our residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) at fair value. This election was made to be consistent  with our risk management strategy to hedge changes in the fair value of these assets as described below. The fair value of residential MSRs is estimated by using a cash flow valuation model which
calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration actual and expected mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, servicing costs, and other economic factors which are determined based on
current market conditions.  Assumptions incorporated into the residential MSRs valuation model reflect management’s best estimate of
factors that a market participant would use in valuing the residential MSRs. Although sales of residential MSRs do occur, residential MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices so the precise terms and conditions of sales
are not available. As a benchmark for the reasonableness of its residential MSRs fair value, PNC obtains opinions of value from independent parties (“brokers”). These brokers provided a range (+/- 10 bps) based upon their own discounted
cash flow calculations of our portfolio that reflected conditions in the secondary market, and any recently executed servicing transactions. PNC compares its internally-developed residential MSRs value to the ranges of values received from the
brokers. If our residential MSRs fair value falls outside of the brokers’ ranges, management will assess whether a valuation adjustment is warranted. For 2011 and 2010, PNC’s residential MSRs value has not fallen outside of the
brokers’ ranges. We consider our residential MSRs value to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value.  Commercial MSRs are purchased
or originated when loans are sold with servicing retained. Commercial MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable prices so the precise terms and conditions of sales are not available. Commercial MSRs are initially recorded at fair
value and are subsequently accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or fair value. Commercial MSRs are periodically evaluated for impairment. For purposes of impairment, the commercial mortgage servicing rights are stratified based on asset
type, which characterizes the predominant risk of the underlying financial asset. The fair value of commercial MSRs is estimated by using an internal valuation model. The model


calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows considering estimates of servicing revenue and costs, discount rates and prepayment speeds. 
PNC employs risk management strategies designed to protect the value of MSRs from changes in interest rates and related market factors. Residential MSRs
values are economically hedged with securities and derivatives, including interest-rate swaps, options, and forward mortgage-backed and futures contracts. As interest rates change, these financial instruments are expected to have changes in fair
value negatively correlated to the change in fair value of the hedged residential MSRs portfolio. The hedge relationships are actively managed in response to changing market conditions over the life of the residential MSRs assets. Commercial MSRs
are economically hedged at a macro level or with specific derivatives to protect against a significant decline in interest rates. Selecting appropriate financial instruments to economically hedge residential or commercial MSRs requires significant
management judgment to assess how mortgage rates and prepayment speeds could affect the future values of MSRs. Hedging results can frequently be less predictable in the short term, but over longer periods of time are expected to protect the economic
value of the MSRs.  The fair value of residential and commercial MSRs and significant inputs to the valuation model as of December 31,
2011 are shown in the tables below. The expected and actual rates of mortgage loan prepayments are significant factors driving the fair value. Management uses a third-party model to estimate future residential loan prepayments and internal
proprietary models to estimate future commercial loan prepayments. These models have been refined based on current market conditions. Future interest rates are another important factor in the valuation of MSRs. Management utilizes market implied
forward interest rates to estimate the future direction of mortgage and discount rates. The forward rates utilized are derived from the current yield curve for U.S. dollar interest rate swaps and are consistent with pricing of capital markets
instruments. Changes in the shape and slope of the forward curve in future periods may result in volatility in the fair value estimate. 
Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights   












Dollars in millions
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Fair value
  
$
647
 
 
$
1,033
 

 Weighted-average life (in years) (a)
  
 
3.6
 
 
 
5.8
 

 Weighted-average constant prepayment rate (a)
  
 
22.10
% 
 
 
12.61
% 

 Weighted-average option adjusted spread
  
 
11.77
% 
 
 
12.18
% 



(a)
Changes in weighted-average life and weighted-average constant prepayment rate reflect the cumulative impact of changes in rates, prepayment expectations and model
changes.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    65 


Table of Contents

Commercial Mortgage Servicing Rights 
 












Dollars in millions
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Fair value
  
$
471
  
 
$
674
  

 Weighted-average life (in years) (a)
  
 
5.9
  
 
 
6.3
  

 Prepayment rate range (a) (b)
  
 
13% – 28
% 
 
 
10% – 24
% 

 Effective discount rate range
  
 
6% – 9
% 
 
 
7% – 9
% 



(a)
Changes in weighted-average life and prepayment rate reflect the cumulative impact of changes in rates, prepayment expectations and model changes.



(b)
Represents modeled prepayment rates considering the effective dates of prepayment penalties.  A sensitivity analysis of the hypothetical effect on the fair value of MSRs to adverse changes in key assumptions is presented below. These sensitivities do not include the impact of the related hedging
activities. Changes in fair value generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of  the change in the assumption to the change in
fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the MSRs is calculated independently without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in
another (for example, changes in mortgage interest rates, which drive changes in prepayment rate estimates, could result in changes in the interest rate spread), which could either magnify or counteract the sensitivities. 
Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights   












Dollars in millions
 
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Weighted-average constant prepayment rate:
 



 


 

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
 
$
44
 
 
$
41
 

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
 
$
84
 
 
$
86
 

 Weighted-average option adjusted spread:
 



 


 

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
 
$
25
 
 
$
43
 

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
 
$
48
 
 
$
83
 
 
Commercial Mortgage Servicing Rights 
 












Dollars in millions
 
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Prepayment rate range:
 



 


 

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
 
$
6
 
 
$
8
 

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
 
$
11
 
 
$
16
 

 Effective discount rate range:
 



 


 

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
 
$
9
 
 
$
13
 

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
 
$
18
 
 
$
26
 
 Income Taxes  In the normal course of business, we and our subsidiaries enter into transactions for which the tax treatment is unclear or subject to varying interpretations. In addition, filing requirements, methods of
filing and the calculation of taxable income in various state and local jurisdictions are subject to differing interpretations.  We evaluate
and assess the relative risks and merits of the appropriate tax treatment of transactions, filing positions, filing methods and taxable income calculations after considering statutes, regulations, judicial precedent, and other information, and
maintain tax accruals consistent with our evaluation of these relative risks and merits. The result of our evaluation and assessment is by its nature an estimate. We and our subsidiaries are routinely subject to audit and challenges from taxing
authorities. In the event we resolve a challenge for an amount different than amounts previously accrued, we will account for the difference in the period in which we resolve the matter.  Proposed Accounting Standards  The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued several Exposure Drafts for comment during 2011 as well as the beginning of 2012.  
 
66    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

In November 2011, the FASB issued Proposed Accounting Standards Update – Consolidation (Topic 810)
– Principal versus Agent Analysis. This proposal would require a reporting entity to evaluate whether a decision maker is using its power as a principal or an agent. This evaluation would affect whether an entity is a variable interest entity
and, if so, whether the reporting entity should consolidate the entity. The principal or agent decision would be based on the rights held by other parties, the compensation received by the decision maker and the decision maker’s exposure to
variability of returns from any other interests that it holds in the entity. This proposal would change the evaluation of kick-out and participating rights held by noncontrolling shareholders in a consolidation analysis. Additionally, the proposal
would impact the requirements for determining when a general partner controls a limited partnership. Lastly, the proposal would rescind the indefinite deferral of variable interest entity analysis provided for an investment manager and other similar
entities. The comment period ended February 15, 2012. We are evaluating the impact of this proposal on our financial statements.  In
November 2011, the FASB issued Proposed Accounting Standards Update (Revised) – Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) – Revenue from Contracts with Customers. Under the proposal, an entity would recognize revenue from contracts with customers
when it transfers promised goods or services to the customer. The revenue recognized would be the transaction price based upon the consideration promised by the customer in exchange for the transferred goods or services. The proposal includes
guidance on how to determine when a  good or service is transferred over time, how to account for warranties, how to determine a transaction
price (including collectability, time value of money, and variable consideration), and a practical expedient that permits an entity to recognize as an expense costs of obtaining a contract (if one year or less). The effective date has not yet been
determined. The comment period ends on March 13, 2012. On January 4, 2012, the FASB issued a second proposal on Revenue Recognition that illustrates the proposed amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification, which were
excluded from the first proposal issued in November 2011. The comment period for the second proposal also ends on March 13, 2012. We are evaluating the impact of these proposals on our financial statements. 
In October 2011, the FASB issued Proposed Accounting Standards Update – Financial Services – Investment Companies (Topic 946). This proposal
would change the 

definition of an investment company. Additionally, it would require that an investment company consolidate another  investment company in which it holds a controlling financial interest. Consistent with current U.S. GAAP, a noninvestment company parent of an investment company would continue to retain the specialized
consolidation accounting. The effective date has not yet been determined. The comment period ended February 15, 2012. We are evaluating the impact of this proposal on our financial statements. 
In October 2011, the FASB also issued Proposed Accounting Standards Update – Real Estate – Investment Property Entities (Topic 973). This
proposal provides accounting guidance for an entity that meets the criteria to be an investment property entity. Investment properties acquired by an investment property entity would be required to be recorded at fair value with changes in value
recorded in earnings. The effective date has not yet been determined. The comment period ended February 15, 2012. We are evaluating the impact of this proposal on our financial statements. 
In January 2011, the FASB issued Supplementary Document – Accounting for Financial Instruments and Revisions to the Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities – Impairment. Subsequent to this proposal, in June 2011, the FASB and IASB proposed a credit impairment model that would divide loans into three buckets for purposes of calculating impairment. The three
buckets are: (1) portfolios with little to no evidence of credit impairment, (2) portfolios with observable evidence of credit impairment, and (3) individual instruments that are credit impaired. The proposed impairment calculations
for the three buckets are as follows: (1) expected losses for the next 12 months for portfolios of instruments, (2) expected lifetime losses for portfolios of instruments, and (3) expected lifetime losses for individual instruments,
respectively. All instruments would be initially classified in bucket 1 and transition to  buckets 2 and 3 if credit performance deteriorates
from origination or acquisition. This proposal continues to be discussed among the FASB and IASB. A new exposure draft is expected to be issued in the second quarter of 2012. We are evaluating the impact of this proposal on our financial statements.
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  See Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes To the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report regarding the impact of new accounting pronouncements.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    67 


Table of Contents

STATUS OF QUALIFIED DEFINED
BENEFIT PENSION PLAN  We have a noncontributory, qualified defined benefit pension plan (plan
or pension plan) covering eligible employees. Benefits are determined using a cash balance formula where earnings credits are a percentage of eligible compensation. Pension contributions are based on an actuarially determined amount necessary to
fund total benefits payable to plan participants. Consistent with our investment strategy, plan assets are primarily invested in equity investments and fixed income instruments. Plan fiduciaries determine and review the plan’s investment
policy, which is described more fully in Note 14 Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  We calculate the expense associated with the pension plan and the assumptions and methods that we use include a policy of reflecting trust assets at their fair market value. On an annual basis, we review
the actuarial assumptions related to the pension plan. The primary assumptions used to measure pension obligations and costs are the discount rate, compensation increase and expected long-term return on assets. Among these, the compensation increase
assumption does not significantly affect pension expense.  The discount rate used to measure pension obligations is determined by comparing
the expected future benefits that will be paid under the plan with yields available on high quality corporate bonds of similar duration. In lower interest rate environments, the sensitivity of pension expense to the assumed discount rate increases.
The impact on pension expense of a 0.5% decrease in discount rate in the current environment is $23 million per year. In contrast, the sensitivity to the same change in discount rate in a higher interest rate environment is less significant.
 The expected long-term return on assets assumption also has a significant effect on pension expense. The expected return on plan assets is a
long-term assumption established by considering historical and anticipated returns of the asset classes invested in by the pension plan and the asset allocation policy currently in place. For purposes of setting and reviewing this assumption,
“long term” refers to the period over which the plan’s projected benefit obligations will be disbursed. We review this assumption at each measurement date and adjust it if warranted. Our selection process references certain historical
data and the current environment, but primarily utilizes qualitative judgment regarding future return expectations. Accordingly, we generally do not change the assumption unless we modify our investment strategy or identify events that would alter
our expectations of future returns. 
To evaluate the continued reasonableness of our assumption, we examine a variety of viewpoints and data.
Various studies have shown that portfolios comprised primarily of US equity securities have historically returned approximately 10% annually over long periods of time, while US debt securities have returned approximately 6% annually over long
periods. Application of these historical returns to the plan’s allocation ranges for equities and bonds produces a result between 7.25% and 8.75% and is one point of reference, among many other factors, that is taken into consideration. We also
examine the plan’s actual historical returns over various periods. Recent experience is considered in our evaluation with appropriate consideration that, especially for short time periods, recent returns are not reliable indicators of future
returns. While annual returns can vary significantly (rates of return for 2011, 2010, and 2009 were +.11%, +14.87%, and +20.61%, respectively), the selected assumption represents our estimated long-term average prospective returns. 
Acknowledging the potentially wide range for this assumption, we also annually examine the assumption used by other companies with similar pension
investment strategies, so that we can ascertain whether our determinations markedly differ from others. In all cases, however, this data simply informs our process, which places the greatest emphasis on our qualitative judgment of future investment
returns, given the conditions existing at each annual measurement date.  Taking into consideration all of these factors, the expected
long-term return on plan assets for determining net periodic pension cost for 2011 was 7.75%, down from 8.00% for 2010. This reduction was made after considering the views of both internal and external capital market advisors, particularly with
regard to the effects of the recent economic environment on long-term prospective fixed income returns. We are maintaining our expected long-term return on assets at 7.75% for determining pension cost for 2012. 
Under current accounting rules, the difference between expected long-term returns and actual returns is accumulated and amortized to pension expense over
future periods. Each one percentage point difference in actual return compared with our expected return causes expense in subsequent years to increase or decrease by up to $8 million as the impact is amortized into results of operations. 
We currently estimate a pretax pension expense of $93 million in 2012 compared with pretax expense of $3 million in 2011. This year-over-year expected
increase is primarily due to the amortization impact of the unfavorable 2011 investment returns as compared with the expected long-term return assumption and the increase in obligations due to the drop in the discount rate. In addition, the estimate
for 2012 includes approximately $2 million for employees expected to join the plan after the RBC Bank (USA) acquisition.  
 
68    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

The table below reflects the estimated effects on pension expense of certain changes in annual assumptions,
using 2012 estimated expense as a baseline.   








Change in Assumption (a)
  

EstimatedIncrease to 2012PensionExpense (In millions)
 

 .5% decrease in discount rate
  
$
23
 

 .5% decrease in expected long-term return on assets
  
$
18
 

 .5% increase in compensation rate
  
$
2
 



(a)
The impact is the effect of changing the specified assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. 
Our pension plan contribution requirements are not particularly sensitive to actuarial assumptions. Investment performance has the most impact on
contribution requirements and will drive the amount of permitted contributions in future years. Also, current law, including the provisions of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, sets limits as to both minimum and maximum contributions to the plan.
We do not expect to be required by law to make any contributions to the plan during 2012.  We maintain other defined benefit plans that have a
less significant effect on financial results, including various nonqualified supplemental retirement plans for certain employees. 
RECOURSE AND REPURCHASE OBLIGATIONS 
As discussed in Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8
of this Report, PNC has sold commercial mortgage and residential mortgage loans directly or indirectly in securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions with continuing involvement. One form of continuing involvement includes certain recourse and
loan repurchase obligations associated with the transferred assets in these transactions.  Commercial Mortgage Loan Recourse Obligations
 We originate, close, and service certain multi-family commercial mortgage loans which are sold to FNMA under FNMA’s Delegated
Underwriting and Servicing (DUS) program. We participated in a similar program with the FHLMC.  Under these programs, we generally assume up
to a one-third pari passu risk of loss on unpaid principal balances through a loss share arrangement. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the unpaid principal balance outstanding of loans sold as a participant in these programs was
$13.0 billion and $13.2 billion, respectively. The potential maximum exposure under the loss share arrangements was $4.0 billion at


both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. We maintain a reserve for estimated losses based on our exposure. The reserve for losses under these programs totaled $47 million and $54
million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and is included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. If payment is required under these programs, we would not have a contractual interest in the
collateral underlying the mortgage loans on which losses occurred, although the value of the collateral is taken into account in determining our share of such losses. Our exposure and activity associated with these recourse obligations are reported
in the Corporate & Institutional Banking segment.  Residential Mortgage Loan and Home Equity Repurchase Obligations
 While residential mortgage loans are sold on a non-recourse basis, we assume certain loan repurchase obligations associated with
mortgage loans we have sold to investors. These loan repurchase obligations primarily relate to situations where PNC is alleged to have breached certain origination covenants and representations and warranties made to purchasers of the loans in the
respective purchase and sale agreements. Residential mortgage loans covered by these loan repurchase obligations include first and second-lien mortgage loans we have sold through Agency securitizations, Non-Agency securitizations, and whole-loan
sale transactions. As discussed in Note 3 in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, Agency securitizations consist of mortgage loans sale transactions with FNMA, FHLMC, and the Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA) program, while Non-Agency securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions consist of mortgage loans sale transactions with private investors. Our historical exposure and activity associated with Agency securitization repurchase
obligations has primarily been related to transactions with FNMA and FHLMC, as indemnification and repurchase losses associated with Federal Housing Agency (FHA) and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-insured and uninsured loans pooled in GNMA
securitizations historically have been minimal. Repurchase obligation activity associated with residential mortgages is reported in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment.  PNC’s repurchase obligations also include certain brokered home equity loans/lines that were sold to a limited number of private investors in the financial services industry by National City prior to
our acquisition. PNC is no longer engaged in the brokered home equity lending business, and our exposure under these loan repurchase obligations is limited to repurchases of the whole-loans sold in these transactions. Repurchase activity associated
with brokered home equity lines/loans are reported in the Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio segment.  Loan covenants and representations and
warranties are established through loan sale agreements with various investors to provide assurance that PNC has sold loans to
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    69 


Table of Contents


investors of sufficient investment quality. Key aspects of such covenants and representations and warranties include the loan’s compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by
the investor, including underwriting standards, delivery of all required loan documents to the investor or its designated party, sufficient collateral valuation, and the validity of the lien securing the loan. As a result of alleged breaches of
these contractual obligations, investors may request PNC to indemnify them against losses on certain loans or to repurchase loans. 
Indemnifications for loss or loan repurchases typically occur when, after review of the claim, we agree insufficient evidence exists to dispute the
investor’s claim that a breach of a loan covenant and representation and warranty has occurred, such breach has not been cured, and the effect of such breach is deemed to have had a material and adverse effect on the value of the transferred
loan. Depending on the sale agreement and upon proper notice from the investor, we typically respond to such indemnification and repurchase requests within 60 days, although final resolution of the claim may take a longer period of time. With the
exception of the sales agreements associated with the Agency securitizations, most sale agreements do not provide for penalties or other remedies if we do not respond timely to investor indemnification or repurchase requests. 
Investor indemnification or repurchase claims are typically settled on an individual loan basis through make-whole payments or loan repurchases; however,
on occasion we may negotiate pooled settlements with investors. In connection with pooled settlements, we typically do not repurchase loans and the consummation of such transactions generally results in


us no longer having indemnification and repurchase exposure with the investor in the transaction.  The following table details the unpaid principal balance of our unresolved indemnification and repurchase claims at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
Analysis of Unresolved Asserted Indemnification and Repurchase Claims 
 












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Residential mortgages:
  



  


 

 Agency securitizations
  
$
302
 
  
$
110
 

 Private investors (a)
  
 
73
 
  
 
100
 



 

 Home equity loans/lines:
  



  


 

 Private investors (b)
  
 
110
 
  
 
299
 

 Total unresolved claims
  
$
485
 
  
$
509
 



(a)
Activity relates to loans sold through Non-Agency securitization and whole-loan sale transactions. 


(b)
Activity relates to brokered home equity loans/lines sold through whole-loan sale transactions which occurred during 2005-2007. 
To mitigate losses associated with indemnification and repurchase claims, we have established quality assurance programs designed to ensure loans sold
meet specific underwriting and origination criteria provided for in the investor sale agreements. In addition, we investigate every investor claim on a loan by loan basis to determine the existence of a legitimate claim, and that all other
conditions for indemnification or repurchase have been met prior to the settlement with an investor.  
  The table below details our
indemnification and repurchase claim settlement activity during 2011 and 2010.  Analysis of Indemnification and Repurchase Claim
Settlement Activity   




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

Year ended December 31 – In millions
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance (a)
 
  
LossesIncurred (b)
 
  
Fair Value ofRepurchasedLoans (c)
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance (a)
 
  
LossesIncurred (b)
 
  
Fair Value ofRepurchasedLoans (c)
 

 Residential mortgages (d):
  



  



  


 
  



  



  


 

 Agency securitizations
  
$
220
 
  
$
115
 
  
$
74
 
  
$
358
 
  
$
151
 
  
$
150
 

 Private investors (e)
  
 
76
 
  
 
48
 
  
 
14
 
  
 
127
 
  
 
54
 
  
 
31
 




 


 

 Home equity loans/lines:
  



  



  


 
  



  



  


 

 Private investors – Repurchases (f) (g)
  
 
42
 
  
 
107
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
28
 
  
 
35
 
  
 
3
 

 Total indemnification and repurchase settlements
  
$
338
 
  
$
270
 
  
$
91
 
  
$
513
 
  
$
240
 
  
$
184
 



(a)
Represents unpaid principal balance of loans at the indemnification or repurchase date. Excluded from these balances are amounts associated with pooled settlement
payments as loans are typically not repurchased in these transactions. 


(b)
Represents both i) amounts paid for indemnification/settlement payments and ii) the difference between loan repurchase price and fair value of the loan at the
repurchase date. These losses are charged to the indemnification and repurchase liability. 


(c)
Represents fair value of loans repurchased only as we have no exposure to changes in the fair value of loans or underlying collateral when indemnification/settlement
payments are made to investors. 


(d)
Repurchase activity associated with insured loans, government-guaranteed loans, and loans repurchased through the exercise of our removal of account provision (ROAP)
option are excluded from this table. Refer to Note 3 in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for further discussion of ROAPs. 


(e)
Activity relates to loans sold through Non-Agency securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions. 


(f)
Activity relates to brokered home equity loans/lines sold through whole-loan sale transactions which occurred during 2005-2007. 


(g)
Included in the Losses Incurred column are payments associated with pooled settlement activities. These payments were made to settle disputed pending repurchase claims
as well as any future repurchase claims made by investors. No loans were repurchased in these transactions and accordingly, balances associated with these activities are not included in the Unpaid Principal Balance and Fair Value of Repurchased
Loans columns in this table. 
 
70    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

During 2011 and 2010, unresolved and settled investor indemnification and repurchase claims were primarily
related to one of the following alleged breaches in representations and warranties: 1) misrepresentation of income, assets or employment; 2) property evaluation or status issues (e.g., appraisal, title, etc.); 3) underwriting guideline violations;
or 4) mortgage insurance rescissions. During 2011, the volume of residential mortgage indemnification and repurchase claims increased reflecting the prolonged weak residential housing sector and the continuing industry trend of Agency investors
pursuing strategies to aggressively reduce their exposure to losses on purchased loans. This increase, along with an increase in the average time to resolve investor claims, has contributed to the higher balances of unresolved claims for residential
mortgages at December 31, 2011. The extended period of time to resolve these investor claims coupled with higher claim rescission rates drove the decline in residential mortgage indemnification and repurchase settlement activity in 2011. As the
level of residential mortgage claims increased over the past couple of years, management focused its efforts on improving its process to review and respond to these claims. The lower balance of unresolved indemnification and repurchase claims for
home equity loans/lines at December 31, 2011 was primarily attributed to pooled settlement activity and higher claim rescission rates during 2011. Management also implemented enhancements to its process of reviewing and responding to investor
claims for this sold portfolio. The pooled settlement activity also drove the year-over-year increase in home equity indemnification and repurchase settlements. As a result, certain investor indemnification and repurchase requests received in 2010
were not resolved until the pooled settlement activity occurred in 2011.  For the first and second-lien mortgage balances of unresolved and
settled claims contained in the tables above, a significant amount of these claims were associated with sold loans originated through correspondent lender and broker origination channels. For the home equity loans/lines sold portfolio, all
unresolved and settled claims relate to loans originated through the broker origination channel. In certain instances when indemnification or repurchase claims are settled for these types of sold loans, we have recourse back to the correspondent
lenders, brokers and other third-parties (e.g., contract underwriting companies, closing agents, appraisers, etc.). Depending on the underlying reason for the investor claim, we determine our ability to pursue recourse with these parties and file
claims with them accordingly. Our historical recourse recovery rate has been insignificant as our efforts have been impacted by the inability of such parties to reimburse us for their recourse obligations (e.g., their capital availability or whether
they remain in business) or contractual limitations that limit our ability to pursue recourse with these parties (e.g., loss caps, statutes of limitations, etc.). Broker recourse activities, to the extent material, as well as the trends in
unresolved claim and indemnification and repurchase activity described above are considered in the determination


of our estimated indemnification and repurchase liability detailed below.  Origination
and sale of residential mortgages is an ongoing business activity and, accordingly, management continually assesses the need to recognize indemnification and repurchase liabilities pursuant to the associated investor sale agreements. We establish
indemnification and repurchase liabilities for estimated losses on sold first and second-lien mortgages and home equity loans/lines for which indemnification is expected to be provided or for loans that are expected to be repurchased. For the first
and second-lien mortgage sold portfolio, we have established an indemnification and repurchase liability pursuant to investor sale agreements based on claims made and our estimate of future claims on a loan by loan basis. These relate primarily to
loans originated during 2006-2008. For the home equity loans/lines sold portfolio, we have established indemnification and repurchase liabilities based upon this same methodology for loans sold during 2005-2007. 
Indemnification and repurchase liabilities, which are included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, are initially recognized when
loans are sold to investors and are subsequently evaluated by management. Initial recognition and subsequent adjustments to the indemnification and repurchase liability for the sold residential mortgage portfolio are recognized in Residential
mortgage revenue on the Consolidated Income Statement. Since PNC is no longer engaged in the brokered home equity lending business, only subsequent adjustments are recognized to the home equity loans/lines indemnification and repurchase liability.
These adjustments are recognized in Other noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement.  Management’s subsequent evaluation of
these indemnification and repurchase liabilities is based upon trends in indemnification and repurchase requests, actual loss experience, risks in the underlying serviced loan portfolios, and current economic conditions. As part of its evaluation,
management considers estimated loss projections over the life of the subject loan portfolio. We believe our indemnification and repurchase liabilities appropriately reflect the estimated probable losses on investor indemnification and repurchase
claims at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the liability for
estimated losses on indemnification and repurchase claims for residential mortgages totaled $83 million and $144 million, respectively. The year-over-year decline in this liability reflects lower estimated losses driven primarily by the seasoning of
the sold portfolio and higher claim rescission rates as described above. This decrease resulted despite higher levels of investor indemnification and repurchase claim activity. The indemnification and repurchase liability for home equity loans/lines
was $47 million and $150 million at  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    71 


Table of Contents


December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The year-over-year reduction in this liability was reflective of lower anticipated indemnification and repurchase activity for the
sold portfolio due to pooled settlement activities, improved investor rescission rates as described above, and the seasoning of the sold home equity portfolio.  RISK MANAGEMENT  We encounter risk as part of the normal
course of operating our business and we design risk management processes to help manage these risks. This Risk Management section describes our risk management philosophy, principles, governance and various aspects of our corporate-level risk
management program. We also provide an analysis of our primary areas of risk: credit, operational, model, liquidity, and market. The discussion of market risk is further subdivided into interest rate, trading, and equity and other investment risk
areas. Our use of financial derivatives as part of our overall asset and liability risk management process is also addressed within the Risk Management section of this Item 7. In appropriate places within this section, historical performance is
also addressed.  Risk Management Philosophy and Profile  We fundamentally believe that risk management is a critical activity in successfully operating our business. We have adopted and implemented a risk philosophy with a goal of managing to an overall
moderate level of risk to capture opportunities and optimize shareholder value. We actively support a risk management culture which promotes communication, teamwork, and our governance structure to help us manage our risks in the best interest of
our business and shareholders. We dynamically set our strategies and make distinct risk taking decisions with consideration for the impact to our aggregate risk position. During 2011, our corporate risk profile returned to an overall moderate level
due to continued improvement in a number of key measures, disciplined credit management, and the successful execution and implementation of strategic business initiatives.  Risk Management Principles  In managing the risks we encounter, we employ the
following accepted guiding principles to establish boundaries for the risks which we are willing to accept in the course of doing business. These include being able to effectively: 
 


 
•
 
 Identify and Understand Risks and Returns 


 
•
 
 Make Balanced Risk Decisions 


 
•
 
 Monitor and Manage Risks 
Risk Management Governance  We
employ a comprehensive Risk Management governance structure to help ensure that risks are identified; balanced decisions are made that consider risk and return; and risks are adequately monitored and managed. Risk committees established within this
governance structure provide oversight for risk management activities at the Board, Corporate, and Business level. We utilize our governance structure to assess


the effectiveness of our Risk Management practices on an ongoing basis, based on how we manage our day-to-day business activities and on our development and execution of more specific strategies
to mitigate risks. Our businesses strive to enhance risk management and internal control processes in light of heightened regulatory expectations focused on large financial institutions. We have integrated and comprehensive processes in place that
are designed to adequately identify, measure, manage, monitor, and report risks which may significantly impact our business. The roles and responsibilities for our Risk Management activities rest with the following groups: 
Line of Business Management and corporate support functions have the responsibility for identifying and managing risks generated in
day-to-day business activities. This includes performing quality assurance testing on processes to identify risks and implementing necessary mitigation measures; setting control level policies and procedures designed to manage program execution
within boundaries defined by risk management; and supporting risk reporting activities and escalation of key risks.   Risk
Management supports business management in meeting their responsibilities for managing risk in a partnership role by proactively assessing risk, as well as an oversight role of measuring, monitoring, and challenging firm-wide risk management
capabilities. This includes establishing enterprise level risk management policies that govern the control level policies, performing quality control on process outcomes, establishing appropriate governance and challenge functions via the risk
committees, and creating risk transparency through ownership of risk reporting activities.  Internal Audit develops a risk-based
audit program to help provide assurance on the management of risk throughout the organization. This includes auditing business processes across the organization and reporting on the effectiveness of controls, as well as auditing the risk management
policy and infrastructure implemented by the enterprise risk management function.  Corporate-Level Risk Management Program
 The corporate risk management organization has the following key roles: 


 
•
 
 Facilitate the identification, assessment and monitoring of risk across PNC, 


 
•
 
 Provide support and oversight to the businesses, 


 
•
 
 Help identify and implement risk management best practices, as appropriate, and 


 
•
 
 Work with the lines of business to shape and define PNC’s business risk limits. 
Risk Measurement  We conduct risk
measurement activities specific to each area of risk utilizing a variety of methodologies. The primary vehicle for aggregation of enterprise-wide risk is a comprehensive risk management methodology which focuses on maximizing economic capital. This
primary risk  
 
72    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


aggregation measure is supplemented with secondary  measures of risk to arrive at an
estimate of corporate-wide risk. The economic capital framework is a measure of potential losses above and beyond expected losses. Our capital management practices incorporate risks associated with potential credit losses (Credit Risk); fluctuations
of the estimated market value of financial instruments (Market Risk); failure of people, processes or systems (Operational Risk); calculations, assumptions, and validation of internal measurements (Model Risk); and losses associated with declining
margins and/or fees, and the fixed cost structure of the business. We estimate credit and market risks at pool and exposure levels while we estimate the remaining risk types at an institution or business segment level. 
Risk Management Strategies  Risk
management is not about eliminating risks, but about identifying and accepting risks and then working to effectively manage them so as to optimize all aspects of shareholder value.  We centrally manage policy development, exception approval, and oversight through our corporate-level risk management structure. Some of these policies express our risk appetite through limits to the
acceptable level of risk. If we are in excess of certain limits, we implement strategies designed to progressively manage our risks to be within acceptable tolerances. We also review and revise certain policies to better reflect specific business
requirements of our changing organization. This risk management structure also affords us opportunities to take action in either preventing or mitigating unapproved exceptions to policies. PNC’s Internal Audit function also performs its own
assessment of our internal control environment. Internal Audit plays a critical role in risk management, testing the operation of the internal control system and reporting findings to management and to the Audit Committee of the Board. 
Risk Monitoring and Reporting 
Monitoring and evaluation of controls help to provide assurance that controls are effective, and can also result in the identification of opportunities to
improve risk controls. Our risk reporting provides an overall risk aggregation and transparent communication of these aggregated risks. Risk reports are produced at the line of business level, the functional level (credit, market, operational), and
at the corporate level. Our enterprise risk profile is a point-in-time assessment of corporate-wide risk. The risk profile represents PNC’s overall risk position in relation to the desired corporate risk appetite. The determination of the risk
profile’s position is based on comprehensive and subjective analysis of reported risk limits, metrics, operating guidelines, and qualitative assessments.  CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT  Credit risk
represents the possibility that a customer, counterparty or issuer may not perform in accordance with


contractual terms. Credit risk is inherent in the financial services business and results from extending credit to customers, purchasing securities, and entering into financial derivative
transactions and certain guarantee contracts. Credit risk is one of our most significant risks. Our processes for managing credit risk are embedded in PNC’s risk culture and in our decision-making processes using a systematic approach whereby
credit risks and related exposures are: identified and assessed; managed through specific policies and processes; measured and evaluated against our risk tolerance limits; and reported, along with specific mitigation activities, to management and
the board through our governance structure.  Asset Quality Overview  Overall asset quality trends for 2011 were positive and included the following: 


 
•
 
 Overall loan delinquencies, excluding government insured or guaranteed loans, have declined from year-end 2010 levels helped by the slowly improving
economy. 


 
•
 
 Aided by a continued, albeit slowly, improving economy, nonperforming loans declined $906 million, or 20%, to $3.6 billion as of December 31, 2011
compared with December 31, 2010. Similarly, nonperforming assets decreased $967 million, or 19%, to $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2011, compared with December 31, 2010. 


 
•
 
 Commercial credit quality trends improved noticeably with levels of criticized commercial loan outstandings declining by approximately $3.8 billion, or
28% compared with December 31, 2010, to $9.9 billion at December 31, 2011. See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 


 
•
 
 Net charge-offs declined significantly to $1.6 billion, down 44% from 2010 net charge-offs of $2.9 billion. 


 
•
 
 Reflecting improvements in asset quality, the provision for credit losses declined to $1.2 billion for 2011 compared with $2.5 billion for 2010.



 
•
 
 The level of ALLL has decreased to $4.3 billion at December 31, 2011 from $4.9 billion at December 31, 2010. 
These positive trends were partially offset by our ongoing loan modification efforts to assist homeowners and other borrowers. These efforts continued to
increase our overall level of troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). In particular, TDRs included in nonperforming loans increased to 32% of total nonperforming loans. However, as the economy has slowly improved, the amount of TDRs returning to
performing status has increased.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    73 


Table of Contents

NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND LOAN
DELINQUENCIES  Nonperforming Assets, including OREO and Foreclosed Assets 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for which ultimate collectability of the full amount of contractual principal and interest is not
probable and include TDRs, OREO and foreclosed assets. Loans held for sale, government insured or guaranteed loans, purchased impaired loans and loans accounted for under the fair value option are excluded from nonperforming loans. Additional
information regarding our nonaccrual policies is included in Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. A summary of nonperforming assets is presented in the table below. 
Nonperforming assets decreased $967 million from December 31, 2010, to $4.2 billion at December 31, 2011. Nonperforming loans decreased $906
million to $3.6 billion while OREO and foreclosed assets decreased $61 million to $596 million. The ratio of nonperforming assets to total loans and OREO and foreclosed assets was 2.60% at December 31, 2011 and 3.39% at December 31, 2010.
The ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans declined to 2.24% at December 31, 2011, compared to 2.97% at December 31, 2010. The decrease in nonperforming loans from December 31, 2010 occurred across all loan classes except for
home equity and credit card. Home equity nonperforming loans continued to increase as a result of the extended period of time to exit problem loans from the portfolio and the additions of modifications which result in TDRs. Total nonperforming
assets have declined $2.3 billion, or 35%, from their peak of $6.4 billion at March 31, 2010.  At December 31, 2011, TDRs included
in nonperforming loans increased to $1.1 billion or 32% of total nonperforming loans compared to $784 million or 18% of nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2010. Within consumer nonperforming loans, residential real estate TDRs comprise 51%
of total residential real estate nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011, up from 30% at December 31, 2010. Similarly, home equity TDRs comprise 77% of home equity nonperforming loans at December 31, 2011, up slightly from 75% at
December 31, 2010. The level of TDRs in these portfolios is expected to result in elevated nonperforming loan levels for longer periods because TDRs remain in nonperforming status until a borrower has made at least six consecutive months of
payments under the modified terms or ultimate resolution occurs.  At December 31, 2011, our largest nonperforming asset was $28 million
in the Accommodation and Food Services Industry and our average nonperforming loan associated with commercial lending was under $1 million. Our ten largest outstanding nonperforming assets are all from the commercial lending portfolio and represent
9% and 5% of total commercial lending nonperforming loans and total nonperforming assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2011.

Nonperforming Assets By Type 
 












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 

 Nonperforming loans
  



 


 

 Commercial
  



 


 

 Retail/wholesale trade
  
$
109
 
 
$
197
 

 Manufacturing
  
 
117
 
 
 
250
 

 Service providers
  
 
147
 
 
 
218
 

 Real estate related (a)
  
 
252
 
 
 
233
 

 Financial services
  
 
36
 
 
 
16
 

 Health care
  
 
29
 
 
 
50
 

 Other industries
  
 
209
 
 
 
289
 

 Total commercial
  
 
899
 
 
 
1,253
 

 Commercial real estate
  



 


 

 Real estate projects
  
 
1,051
 
 
 
1,422
 

 Commercial mortgage
  
 
294
 
 
 
413
 

 Total commercial real estate
  
 
1,345
 
 
 
1,835
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
22
 
 
 
77
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING
  
 
2,266
 
 
 
3,165
 

 Consumer (b)
  



 


 

 Home equity
  
 
529
 
 
 
448
 

 Residential real estate
  



 


 

 Residential mortgage (c)
  
 
685
 
 
 
764
 

 Residential construction
  
 
41
 
 
 
54
 

 Credit card (d)
  
 
8
 
 


 

 Other consumer
  
 
31
 
 
 
35
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
1,294
 
 
 
1,301
 

 Total nonperforming loans (e)
  
 
3,560
 
 
 
4,466
 

 OREO and foreclosed assets
  



 


 

 Other real estate owned (OREO) (f)
  
 
561
 
 
 
589
 

 Foreclosed and other assets
  
 
35
 
 
 
68
 

 TOTAL OREO AND FORECLOSED ASSETS
  
 
596
 
 
 
657
 

 Total nonperforming assets
  
$
4,156
 
 
$
5,123
 

 Amount of commercial lending nonperforming loans contractually current as to remaining principal and interest
  
$
632
 
 
$
988
 

 Percentage of total commercial lending nonperforming loans
  
 
28
% 
 
 
31
% 

 Amount of TDRs included in nonperforming loans
  
$
1,141
 
 
$
784
 

 Percentage of total nonperforming loans
  
 
32
% 
 
 
18
% 

 Nonperforming loans to total loans
  
 
2.24
% 
 
 
2.97
% 

 Nonperforming assets to total loans, OREO and foreclosed assets
  
 
2.60
 
 
 
3.39
 

 Nonperforming assets to total assets
  
 
1.53
 
 
 
1.94
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses to total nonperforming loans (e)
(g)
  
 
122
 
 
 
109
 



(a)
Includes loans related to customers in the real estate and construction industries. 


(b)
Excludes most consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by residential real estate, which are charged off after 120 to 180 days past due and are not placed on
nonperforming status. 


(c)
Effective in 2011, nonperforming residential mortgage excludes loans of $61 million accounted for under the fair value option as of December 31, 2011. The
comparable balance at December 31, 2010 was not material.  
 
74    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents



(d)
Effective in the second quarter 2011, the commercial nonaccrual policy was applied to certain small business credit card balances. This change resulted in loans being
placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days or more past due. We continue to charge off these loans at 180 days past due. 


(e)
Nonperforming loans do not include government insured or guaranteed loans, loans held for sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option and purchased impaired
loans. 


(f)
Other real estate owned excludes $280 million and $178 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to residential real estate
that was acquired by us upon foreclosure of serviced loans because they are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 


(g)
The allowance for loan and lease losses includes impairment reserves attributable to purchased impaired loans. See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and
Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information.  OREO and Foreclosed Assets   












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Other real estate owned (OREO):
  



  


 

 Residential properties
  
$
191
 
  
$
304
 

 Residential development properties
  
 
183
 
  
 
166
 

 Commercial properties
  
 
187
 
  
 
119
 

 Total OREO
  
 
561
 
  
 
589
 

 Foreclosed and other assets
  
 
35
 
  
 
68
 

 OREO and foreclosed assets
  
$
596
 
  
$
657
 
 Total OREO and foreclosed assets decreased $61 million during 2011 from $657 million at December 31, 2010, to $596
million at December 31, 2011, which represents 14% of total nonperforming assets. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, 32% and 46%, respectively, of our OREO and foreclosed assets were comprised of single family residential
properties. The lower level of OREO and foreclosed assets was driven by lower levels of residential properties as new foreclosures have fallen from the very high levels of early 2010 and sales of foreclosed properties have rebounded from the low
point in the fourth quarter 2010, partially offset by an increase in commercial properties which was due to an increase in the average balance added to OREO with commercial property sales remaining constant year over year. Excluded from OREO at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, was $280 million and $178 million of residential real estate that was acquired by us upon foreclosure of serviced loans because they are insured by the Federal Housing Administration
(FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).

Change in Nonperforming Assets 
 












In millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 January 1
  
$
5,123
 
  
$
6,204
 

 New nonperforming assets
  
 
3,625
 
  
 
5,213
 

 Charge-offs and valuation adjustments
  
 
(1,220
) 
  
 
(2,071
) 

 Principal activity, including paydowns and payoffs
  
 
(1,960
) 
  
 
(1,316
) 

 Asset sales and transfers to loans held for sale
  
 
(613
) 
  
 
(1,446
) 

 Returned to performing status
  
 
(799
) 
  
 
(1,461
) 

 December 31
  
$
4,156
 
  
$
5,123
 
 The table above presents nonperforming asset activity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Nonperforming
assets decreased $967 million from $5.1 billion at December 31, 2010, to $4.2 billion at December 31, 2011. Approximately 80% of total nonperforming loans are secured by collateral, which would be expected to reduce credit losses and
require less reserves in the event of default, and 28% of commercial lending nonperforming loans are contractually current as to principal and interest. As of December 31, 2011, commercial nonperforming loans are carried at approximately 62% of
their unpaid principal balance, due to charge-offs recorded to date, before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses. 
Purchased impaired loans are considered performing, even if contractually past due (or if we do not expect to receive payment in full based on the
original contractual terms), as we are currently accreting interest income over the expected life of the loans. The accretable yield represents the excess of the expected cash flows on the loans at the measurement date over the carrying value.
Generally decreases, other than interest rate decreases for variable rate notes, in the net present value of expected cash flows of individual commercial or pooled consumer purchased impaired loans would result in an impairment charge to the
provision for loan losses in the period in which the change is deemed probable. Generally increases in the net present value of expected cash flows of purchased impaired loans would first result in a recovery of previously recorded allowance for
loan losses, to the extent applicable, and then an increase to accretable yield for the remaining life of the purchased impaired loans. Total nonperforming loans and assets in the tables above are significantly lower than they would have been due to
this accounting treatment for purchased impaired loans. This treatment also results in a lower ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans and a higher ratio of ALLL to nonperforming loans. See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information on these loans.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    75 


Table of Contents

Loan Delinquencies  We regularly monitor the level of loan delinquencies and believe these levels may be a key indicator of loan portfolio asset quality. Measurement of delinquency status is based on the contractual terms of
each loan. Loans that are 30 days or more past due in terms of payment are considered delinquent. Loan delinquencies exclude loans held for sale and purchased impaired loans, but include government insured or guaranteed loans. 
Total early stage loan delinquencies (accruing loans past due 30 to 89 days) decreased by $252 million from December 31, 2010, to $1.6 billion at
December 31, 2011. Commercial lending early stage delinquencies declined by $245 million from December 31, 2010, while consumer lending delinquencies fell by $7 million. Improvement in early stage delinquency levels was experienced across
most loan classes, offset by modest increases in government insured, primarily other consumer education loans, and home equity.

Accruing loans past due 90 days or more are referred to as late stage delinquencies. These loans are not
included in nonperforming loans and continue to accrue interest because they are well secured by collateral, are in the process of collection and are reasonably expected to result in repayment or restoration to current status, or are managed in
homogenous portfolios with specified charge-off timeframes adhering to regulatory guidelines. These loans increased 10% from $2.7 billion at December 31, 2010, to $3.0 billion at December 31, 2011, reflecting higher government insured
delinquent residential real estate and other consumer loans, primarily education loans, and higher delinquent home equity loans, partially offset by improvement in commercial lending delinquency levels, primarily commercial real estate. The
following tables display the delinquency status of our accruing loans past due at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Additional information regarding accruing loans past due is included in Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan
and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.
 
  Accruing Loans Past Due 30 To
59 Days   




















 
  
Amount
 
  
Percent of Total Outstandings
 

Dollars in millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 
  
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 

 Commercial
  
$
122
 
  
$
251
 
  
 
.19
% 
 
 
.45
% 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
96
 
  
 
128
 
  
 
.59
 
 
 
.71
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
22
  
  
 
37
  
  
 
.34
  
 
 
.58
  

 Home equity
  
 
173
 
  
 
159
 
  
 
.52
 
 
 
.47
 

 Residential real estate
  



  



  



 


 

 Non government insured
  
 
180
 
  
 
226
 
  
 
1.24
 
 
 
1.41
 

 Government insured
  
 
122
 
  
 
105
 
  
 
.84
 
 
 
.66
 

 Credit card
  
 
38
 
  
 
46
 
  
 
.96
 
 
 
1.17
 

 Other consumer
  



  



  



 


 

 Non government insured
  
 
58
 
  
 
95
 
  
 
.30
 
 
 
.56
 

 Government insured
  
 
207
  
  
 
165
  
  
 
1.08
  
 
 
.97
  

 Total
  
$
1,018
 
  
$
1,212
 
  
 
.64
 
 
 
.81
 
 Accruing Loans Past Due 60 To 89 Days 
 




















 
  
Amount
 
  
Percent of Total Outstandings
 

Dollars in millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 
  
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 

 Commercial
  
$
47
 
  
$
92
 
  
 
.07
% 
 
 
.17
% 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
35
 
  
 
62
 
  
 
.22
 
 
 
.35
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
5
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
.08
  
 
 
.03
  

 Home equity
  
 
114
 
  
 
91
 
  
 
.34
 
 
 
.27
 

 Residential real estate
  



  



  



 


 

 Non government insured
  
 
72
 
  
 
107
 
  
 
.50
 
 
 
.67
 

 Government insured
  
 
104
 
  
 
118
 
  
 
.72
 
 
 
.74
 

 Credit card
  
 
25
 
  
 
32
 
  
 
.63
 
 
 
.82
 

 Other consumer
  



  



  



 


 

 Non government insured
  
 
21
 
  
 
32
 
  
 
.11
 
 
 
.19
 

 Government insured
  
 
124
  
  
 
69
  
  
 
.65
  
 
 
.41
  

 Total
  
$
547
 
  
$
605
 
  
 
.34
 
 
 
.40
 

 
76    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Accruing Loans Past Due 90 Days Or More 
 




















 
  
Amount
 
  
Percent of Total Outstandings
 

Dollars in millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 
  
Dec. 312011
 
 
Dec. 312010
 

 Commercial
  
$
49
 
  
$
59
 
  
 
.07
% 
 
 
.11
% 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
6
 
  
 
43
 
  
 
.04
 
 
 
.24
 

 Equipment lease financing
  



  
 
1
  
  



 
 
.02
  

 Home equity
  
 
221
 
  
 
174
 
  
 
.67
 
 
 
.51
 

 Residential real estate
  



  



  



 


 

 Non government insured
  
 
152
 
  
 
160
 
  
 
1.05
 
 
 
1.00
 

 Government insured
  
 
2,129
 
  
 
1,961
 
  
 
14.71
 
 
 
12.26
 

 Credit card
  
 
48
 
  
 
77
 
  
 
1.21
 
 
 
1.96
 

 Other consumer
  



  



  



 


 

 Non government insured
  
 
23
 
  
 
28
 
  
 
.12
 
 
 
.16
 

 Government insured
  
 
345
  
  
 
206
  
  
 
1.80
  
 
 
1.22
  

 Total
  
$
2,973
 
  
$
2,709
 
  
 
1.87
 
 
 
1.80
 

 

Our Special Asset Committee closely monitors primarily commercial loans that are not included in the
nonperforming or accruing past due categories and for which we are uncertain about the borrower’s ability to comply with existing repayment terms over the next six months. These loans totaled $438 million at December 31, 2011 and $574
million at December 31, 2010.  Home Equity Loan Portfolio  Our home equity loan portfolio totaled $33.1 billion as of December 31, 2011, or 21% of the total loan portfolio. Of that total, $22.5 billion, or 68%, was outstanding under primarily variable-rate
home equity lines of credit and $10.6 billion, or 32%, consisted of closed-end home equity installment loans. Less than 2% of the home equity portfolio was on nonperforming status as of December 31, 2011. 
As of December 31, 2011, we are in an originated first lien position for approximately 33% of the total portfolio and, where originated as a second
lien, we currently hold or service the first lien position for approximately an additional 2% of the portfolio. Historically, we have originated and sold first mortgages which has resulted in a low percentage of home equity loans where we hold the
first lien mortgage position. The remaining 65% of the portfolio was secured by second liens where we do not hold the first lien position. For the majority of the home equity portfolio where we are in, hold or service the first lien position, the
credit performance of this portion of the portfolio is superior to the portion of the portfolio where we hold the second lien position but do not hold the first lien.  Subsequent to origination, PNC is not typically notified when a senior lien position that is not held by PNC is satisfied. Therefore, information about the current lien status of the loans is limited, for
loans that were originated in subordinated lien positions where PNC does not also hold the senior lien, to what can be obtained from external sources.

PNC contracted with a third-party service provider to provide updated loan, lien and collateral data that
is aggregated from public and private sources. We started receiving the data in late 2011 and we are working with the third-party provider to enhance the information we are receiving. As we have made progress in our efforts, we have incrementally
enhanced our risk management processes and reporting to incorporate this updated loan, lien, and collateral data, and we anticipate being substantially complete by the end of second quarter 2012. 
We track borrower performance monthly and other credit metrics at least quarterly, including historical performance of any mortgage loans regardless of
lien position that we may or may not hold, updated FICO scores and original and updated LTVs. This information is used for internal risk management reporting and monitoring. We segment the population into pools based on product type (e.g., home
equity loans, brokered home equity loans, home equity lines of credit, brokered home equity lines of credit). We also further segment certain loans based upon the delinquency status of any mortgage loan with the same borrower (regardless of whether
it is a first lien senior to our second lien).  In establishing our ALLL, we utilize a delinquency roll-rate methodology for pools of loans.
In accordance with accounting principles, under this methodology, we establish our allowance based upon incurred losses and not lifetime expected losses. The roll-rate methodology estimates transition/roll of loan balances from one delinquency state
(e.g., 30-59 days past due) to another delinquency state (e.g., 60-89 days past due) and ultimately charge-off. The roll through to charge-off is based on PNC’s actual loss experience for each type of pool. Since a pool may consist of first and
second liens, the charge-off amounts for the pool are proportionate to the composition of first and second liens in the pool. Our experience has been that the ratio of first to second lien loans has been consistent over time and is appropriately
represented in our pools used for roll-rate calculations.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    77 


Table of Contents

Generally, our variable-rate home equity lines of credit have either a seven or ten year draw period,
followed by a 20 year amortization term. During the draw period, we have home equity lines of credit where borrowers pay interest only and home equity lines of credit where borrowers pay principal and interest. Based upon outstanding balances at
December 31, 2011, the following table presents the periods when home equity lines of credit draw periods are scheduled to end. 
Home Equity Lines of Credit - Draw Period End Dates   












In millions
  
Interest OnlyProduct 
 
  
Principal andInterest Product 
 

 2012
  
$
904
 
  
$
266
 

 2013
  
 
1,211
 
  
 
331
 

 2014
  
 
2,043
 
  
 
598
 

 2015
  
 
1,988
 
  
 
820
 

 2016 and thereafter
  
 
6,961
 
  
 
5,601
 

 Total (a)
  
$
13,107
 
  
$
7,616
 



(a)
Includes approximately $306 million, $44 million, $60 million, $100 million, and $246 million of home equity lines of credit with balloon payments with draw periods
scheduled to end in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016 and thereafter, respectively.  We view home equity lines of credit where
borrowers are paying principal and interest under the draw period as less risky than those where the borrowers are paying interest only, as these borrowers have a demonstrated ability to make some level of principal and interest payments.
 Based upon outstanding balances, and excluding purchased impaired loans, at December 31, 2011, for home equity lines of credit for which
the borrower can no longer draw (e.g., draw period has ended or borrowing privileges have been terminated), approximately 4.32% were 30-89 days past due and approximately 5.57% were greater than or equal to 90 days past due. Generally, when a
borrower becomes 60 days past due, we terminate borrowing privileges, and those privileges are not subsequently reinstated. At that point, we continue our collection/recovery processes, which may include a loss mitigation loan modification resulting
in a loan that is classified as a TDR.  See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and
Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
LOAN MODIFICATIONS AND TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS
 Consumer Loan Modifications  We modify loans under government and PNC-developed programs based upon our commitment to help eligible homeowners and borrowers avoid foreclosure, where


appropriate. Initially, a borrower is evaluated for a modification under a government program. If a borrower does not qualify under a government program, the borrower is then evaluated under a
PNC program. Our programs utilize both temporary and permanent modifications and typically reduce the interest rate, extend the term and/or defer principal. Temporary and permanent modifications under programs involving a change to loan terms are
generally classified as TDRs. Further, certain payment plans and trial payment arrangements which do not include a contractual change to loan terms may be classified as TDRs. Additional detail on TDRs is discussed below as well as in Note 5 Asset
Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  A temporary modification, with a term between three and 60 months, involves a change in original loan terms for a period of time and reverts to the original loan terms as of a specific date or the
occurrence of an event, such as a failure to pay in accordance with the terms of the modification. Typically, these modifications are for a period of up to 24 months after which the interest rate reverts to the original loan rate. A permanent
modification, with a term greater than 60 months, is a modification in which the terms of the original loan are changed. Permanent modifications primarily include the government-created Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) or PNC-developed
HAMP-like modification programs.  For consumer loan programs, such as residential mortgages and home equity loans and lines, we will enter
into a temporary modification when the borrower has indicated a temporary hardship and a willingness to bring current the delinquent loan balance. Examples of this situation often include delinquency due to illness or death in the family, or a loss
of employment. Permanent modifications are entered into when it is confirmed that the borrower does not possess the income necessary to continue making loan payments at the current amount, but our expectation is that payments at lower amounts can be
made. Residential mortgage and home equity loans and lines have been modified with changes in terms for up to 60 months, although the majority involve periods of three to 24 months.  We also monitor the success rates and delinquency status of our loan modification programs to assess their effectiveness in serving our customers’ needs while mitigating credit losses. The following
tables provide the number of accounts and unpaid principal balance of modified consumer real estate related loans as well as the number of accounts and unpaid principal balance of modified loans that were 60 days or more past due as of six months,
nine months and twelve months after the modification date.  
 
78    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Bank-Owned Consumer Real Estate Related Loan Modifications 
 




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

Dollars in millions
  
Number ofAccounts
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
Number ofAccounts
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 

 Home Equity
  



  



  



  


 

 Temporary Modifications
  
 
13,352
 
  
$
1,215
 
  
 
12,643
 
  
$
1,151
 

 Permanent Modifications
  
 
1,533
 
  
 
92
 
  
 
163
 
  
 
17
 

 Total Home Equity
  
 
14,885
 
  
 
1,307
 
  
 
12,806
 
  
 
1,168
 

 Residential Mortgages
  



  



  



  


 

 Permanent Modifications
  
 
7,473
 
  
 
1,342
 
  
 
5,517
 
  
 
1,137
 

 Non-Prime Mortgages
  



  



  



  


 

 Permanent Modifications
  
 
4,355
 
  
 
610
 
  
 
3,405
 
  
 
441
 

 Residential Construction
  



  



  



  


 

 Permanent Modifications
  
 
1,282
 
  
 
578
 
  
 
470
 
  
 
235
 

 Total Bank-Owned Consumer Real Estate Related Loan Modifications
  
 
27,995
 
  
$
3,837
 
  
 
22,198
 
  
$
2,981
 
 Bank-Owned Consumer Real Estate Related Loan Modifications Re-Default by Vintage (a) (b) 
 
































 
  
Six Months
 
 
Nine Months
 
 
Twelve Months
 
 
  
 

 December 31, 2011 Dollars in millions, except as noted
  
Number ofAccountsRe-defaulted
 
  
% ofVintageRe-defaulted
 
 
Number ofAccountsRe-defaulted
 
  
% ofVintageRe-defaulted
 
 
Number ofAccountsRe-defaulted
 
  
% ofVintageRe-defaulted
 
 
UnpaidPrincipalBalance (c)
 

 Permanent Modifications
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Home Equity (d)
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Second Quarter 2011
  
 
17
 
  
 
4.9
% 
 



  



 



  



 


 

 First Quarter 2011
  
 
1
 
  
 
2.8
 
 
 
2
 
  
 
5.6
% 
 



  



 


 

 Fourth Quarter 2010
  
 
4
 
  
 
14.3
 
 
 
6
 
  
 
21.4
 
 
 
5
 
  
 
17.9
% 
 


 

 Third Quarter 2010
  
 
1
 
  
 
9.1
 
 
 
2
 
  
 
18.2
 
 
 
1
 
  
 
9.1
 
 


 

 Second Quarter 2010
  
 
2
 
  
 
12.5
 
 
 
4
 
  
 
25.0
 
 
 
4
 
  
 
25.0
 
 


 

 Residential Mortgages
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Second Quarter 2011
  
 
391
 
  
 
28.0
 
 



  



 



  



 
$
68.1
 

 First Quarter 2011
  
 
361
 
  
 
21.9
 
 
 
511
 
  
 
31.0
 
 



  



 
 
82.6
 

 Fourth Quarter 2010
  
 
338
 
  
 
18.3
 
 
 
536
 
  
 
29.1
 
 
 
689
 
  
 
37.4
 
 
 
111.7
 

 Third Quarter 2010
  
 
479
 
  
 
24.6
 
 
 
577
 
  
 
29.6
 
 
 
684
 
  
 
35.1
 
 
 
112.4
 

 Second Quarter 2010
  
 
303
 
  
 
21.3
 
 
 
384
 
  
 
26.9
 
 
 
447
 
  
 
31.4
 
 
 
68.2
 

 Non-Prime Mortgages
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Second Quarter 2011
  
 
119
 
  
 
19.6
 
 



  



 



  



 
 
20.7
 

 First Quarter 2011
  
 
78
 
  
 
18.4
 
 
 
105
 
  
 
24.8
 
 



  



 
 
13.3
 

 Fourth Quarter 2010
  
 
13
 
  
 
13.5
 
 
 
24
 
  
 
25.0
 
 
 
28
 
  
 
29.2
 
 
 
4.4
 

 Third Quarter 2010
  
 
93
 
  
 
18.3
 
 
 
110
 
  
 
21.6
 
 
 
137
 
  
 
26.9
 
 
 
17.4
 

 Second Quarter 2010
  
 
99
 
  
 
23.2
 
 
 
107
 
  
 
25.1
 
 
 
123
 
  
 
28.9
 
 
 
16.6
 

 Residential Construction
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Second Quarter 2011
  
 
4
 
  
 
3.8
 
 



  



 



  



 
 
1.2
 

 First Quarter 2011
  
 
7
 
  
 
4.2
 
 
 
10
 
  
 
6.0
 
 



  



 
 
3.1
 

 Fourth Quarter 2010
  
 
11
 
  
 
4.7
 
 
 
17
 
  
 
7.2
 
 
 
25
 
  
 
10.6
 
 
 
6.8
 

 Third Quarter 2010
  
 
24
 
  
 
8.2
 
 
 
26
 
  
 
8.9
 
 
 
27
 
  
 
9.2
 
 
 
4.0
 

 Second Quarter 2010
  
 
37
 
  
 
13.6
 
 
 
38
 
  
 
13.9
 
 
 
39
 
  
 
14.3
 
 
 
10.6
 

 Temporary Modifications
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Home Equity
  



  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Second Quarter 2011
  
 
74
 
  
 
10.8
 
 



  



 



  



 
 
7.0
 

 First Quarter 2011
  
 
99
 
  
 
6.6
 
 
 
169
 
  
 
11.3
 
 



  



 
 
15.2
 

 Fourth Quarter 2010
  
 
131
 
  
 
6.5
 
 
 
265
 
  
 
13.1
 
 
 
344
 
  
 
17.0
 
 
 
31.6
 

 Third Quarter 2010
  
 
142
 
  
 
6.9
 
 
 
246
 
  
 
12.0
 
 
 
368
 
  
 
18.0
 
 
 
32.5
 

 Second Quarter 2010
  
 
165
 
  
 
7.9
 
 
 
260
 
  
 
12.4
 
 
 
347
 
  
 
16.6
 
 
 
29.0
 

  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    79 


Table of Contents


(a)
An account is considered in re-default if it is 60 days or more delinquent after modification. The data in this table represents loan modifications completed during the
quarter ending June 30, 2010 through June 30, 2011 and represents a vintage look at all quarterly accounts and the number of those modified accounts (for each quarterly vintage) 60 days or more delinquent at six, nine, and twelve months
after modification. Account totals include active and inactive accounts that were delinquent when they achieved inactive status. 


(b)
Vintage refers to the quarter in which the modification occurred. 


(c)
Reflects December 31, 2011 unpaid principal balances of the re-defaulted accounts for the Second Quarter 2011 Vintage at Six Months, for the First Quarter 2011
Vintage at Nine Months, and for Fourth Quarter 2010 and prior Vintages at Twelve Months. 


(d)
The unpaid principal balance for permanent home equity modifications totals less than $1 million for each vintage. 
 

In addition to temporary loan modifications, we may make available to a borrower a payment plan or a HAMP
trial payment period. Under a payment plan or a HAMP trial payment period, there is no change to the loan’s contractual terms so the borrower remains legally responsible for payment of the loan under its original terms. A payment plan involves
the borrower making payments that differ from the contractual payment amount for a short period of time, generally three months, during which time a borrower is brought current. Our motivation is to allow for repayment of an outstanding past due
amount through payment of additional amounts over the short period of time. Due to the short term nature of the payment plan there is a minimal impact to the ALLL.  Under a HAMP trial payment period, we allow a borrower to demonstrate successful payment performance before establishing an alternative payment amount. Subsequent to successful borrower performance under
the trial payment period, we will change a loan’s contractual terms. As the borrower is often already delinquent at the time of participation in the HAMP trial payment period, upon successful completion, there is not a significant increase in
the ALLL. If the trial payment period is unsuccessful, the loan will be charged off at the end of the trial payment period to its estimated fair value of the underlying collateral less costs to sell. 
Residential conforming and certain residential construction loans have been permanently modified under HAMP or, if they do not qualify for a HAMP
modification, under PNC-developed programs, which in some cases may operate similarly to HAMP. These programs first require a reduction of the interest rate followed by an extension of term and, if appropriate, deferral of principal payments. As of
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, 2,701 accounts with a balance of $478 million and 1,027 accounts with a balance of $262 million, respectively, of residential real estate loans have been modified under HAMP and were still
outstanding on our balance sheet.  We do not re-modify a defaulted modified loan except for subsequent significant life events, as defined by
the OCC. A re-modified loan continues to be classified as a TDR for the remainder of its term regardless of subsequent payment performance.

Commercial Loan Modifications and Payment Plans 
Modifications of terms for large commercial loans are based on individual facts and circumstances. Commercial loan modifications may involve reduction of
the interest rate, extension of the term of the loan and/or forgiveness of principal. Modified large commercial loans are usually already nonperforming prior to modification.  Beginning in 2010, we established certain commercial loan modification and payment programs for small business loans, Small Business Administration loans, and investment real estate loans. As of
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $81 million and $88 million, respectively, in loan balances were covered under these modification and payment plan programs. Of these loan balances, $24 million have been determined to be TDRs as of
December 31, 2011. No balances were considered TDRs at December 31, 2010. As noted below, we adopted new TDR guidance, effective retroactively to January 1, 2011.  Troubled Debt Restructurings  In the third quarter of 2011, we adopted new
accounting guidance pertaining to TDRs, which was effective retroactive to January 1, 2011. For additional information, see Note 1 Accounting Policies and Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan
Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report. A TDR is a loan whose terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial
difficulties. TDRs typically result from our loss mitigation activities and include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, postponement/reduction of scheduled amortization, and extensions, which are intended to minimize economic loss and to avoid
foreclosure or repossession of collateral. For the year ended December 31, 2011, $2.7 billion of loans held for sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option, pooled purchased impaired loans, as well as certain consumer government
insured or guaranteed loans which were evaluated for TDR consideration, are not classified as TDRs.  
 
80    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Summary of Troubled Debt Restructurings 
 












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Consumer lending:
  



  


 

 Real estate-related
  
$
1,492
 
  
$
1,087
 

 Credit card (a)
  
 
291
 
  
 
331
 

 Other consumer
  
 
15
 
  
 
4
 

 Total consumer lending
  
 
1,798
 
  
 
1,422
 

 Total commercial lending
  
 
405
 
  
 
236
 

 Total TDRs
  
$
2,203
 
  
$
1,658
 

 Nonperforming
  
$
1,141
 
  
$
784
 

 Accruing (b)
  
 
771
 
  
 
543
 

 Credit card (a)
  
 
291
 
  
 
331
 

 Total TDRs
  
$
2,203
 
  
$
1,658
 



(a)
Includes credit cards and certain small business and consumer credit agreements whose terms have been restructured and are TDRs. However, since our policy is to exempt
these loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance as generally these loans are directly charged off in the period that they become 180 days past due, these loans are excluded from nonperforming loans.



(b)
Accruing loans have demonstrated a period of at least six months of performance under the restructured terms and are excluded from nonperforming loans.
 Total TDRs increased $545 million or 33% during 2011 to $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2011. Of this total, nonperforming
TDRs totaled $1.1 billion, which represents approximately 32% of total nonperforming loans. However, as the economy has continued to slowly improve, the amount of TDRs returning to performing status has been increasing as noted below. 
TDRs that have returned to performing (accruing) status are excluded from nonperforming loans. These loans have demonstrated a period of at least six
months of consecutive performance under the restructured terms. These TDRs increased $228 million or 42% during 2011 to $771 million as of December 31, 2011. This increase reflects the further seasoning and performance of the TDRs. See Note 5
Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
ALLOWANCES FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES AND
UNFUNDED LOAN COMMITMENTS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT  We recorded $1.6 billion in net charge-offs for the full year of 2011, compared to $2.9 billion in the full year of 2010. Commercial lending net charge-offs fell from $1.6 billion in the full year of 2010
to $712 million in the full year of 2011. Consumer lending net charge-offs declined from $1.3 billion in the full year of 2010 to $927 million in the full year of 2011.

Loan Charge-Offs And Recoveries 
 




















 Year ended December 31 Dollars in millions
 
Charge-offs
 
 
Recoveries
 
 
Net Charge-offs
 
 
Percent ofAverage Loans
 

 2011
 



 



 



 


 

 Commercial
 
$
700
 
 
$
332
 
 
$
368
 
 
 
.62
% 

 Commercial real estate
 
 
464
 
 
 
105
 
 
 
359
 
 
 
2.14
 

 Equipment lease financing
 
 
35
 
 
 
50
 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(.24
) 

 Home equity
 
 
484
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
436
 
 
 
1.30
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
153
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
142
 
 
 
.95
 

 Credit card
 
 
235
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
212
 
 
 
5.62
 

 Other consumer
 
 
193
 
 
 
56
 
 
 
137
 
 
 
.79
 

 Total
 
$
2,264
 
 
$
625
 
 
$
1,639
 
 
 
1.08
 

 2010
 



 



 



 


 

 Commercial
 
$
1,227
 
 
$
294
 
 
$
933
 
 
 
1.72
% 

 Commercial real estate
 
 
670
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
593
 
 
 
2.90
 

 Equipment lease financing
 
 
120
 
 
 
56
 
 
 
64
 
 
 
1.02
 

 Home equity
 
 
488
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
447
 
 
 
1.28
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
406
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
387
 
 
 
2.19
 

 Credit card
 
 
335
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
315
 
 
 
7.94
 

 Other consumer
 
 
246
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
197
 
 
 
1.74
 

 Total
 
$
3,492
 
 
$
556
 
 
$
2,936
 
 
 
1.91
 
 Total net charge-offs are significantly lower than they would have been otherwise due to the accounting treatment for
purchased impaired loans. This treatment also results in a lower ratio of net charge-offs to average loans. See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional
information on net charge-offs related to these loans.  We maintain an ALLL to absorb losses from the loan portfolio and determine this
allowance based on quarterly assessments of the estimated probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio. We maintain the ALLL at a level that we believe to be appropriate to absorb estimated probable credit losses incurred in the loan
portfolio as of the balance sheet date. While we make allocations to specific loans and pools of loans, the total reserve is available for all loan and lease losses. Although quantitative modeling factors as discussed below are constantly changing
as the financial strength of the borrower and overall economic conditions change, there were no significant changes during the full year of 2011 to the methodology we follow to determine our ALLL.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    81 


Table of Contents

We establish specific allowances for loans considered impaired using methods prescribed by GAAP. All
impaired loans are subject to individual analysis, except leases and large groups of smaller-balance homogeneous loans which may include, but are not limited to, credit card, residential mortgage, and consumer installment loans. Specific allowances
for individual loans (including commercial and consumer TDRs) are determined based on an analysis of the present value of expected future cash flows from the loans discounted at their effective interest rate, observable market price, or the fair
value of the underlying collateral.  Allocations to non-impaired commercial loan classes are based on PD and LGD credit risk ratings.
 Our pool reserve methodology is sensitive to changes in key risk parameters such as PDs, LGDs and EADs. In general, a given change in any of
the major risk parameters will have a corresponding change in the pool reserve allocations for non-impaired commercial loans. Our commercial loans are the largest category of credits and are most sensitive to changes in the key risk parameters and
pool reserve loss rates. To illustrate, if we increase the pool reserve LGD by 5% for all categories of non-impaired commercial loans, then the aggregate of the ALLL and allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit would increase by
$72 million.  The majority of the commercial portfolio is secured by collateral, including loans to asset-based lending customers that
continue to show demonstrably lower loss given default. Further, the large investment grade or equivalent portion of the loan portfolio has performed well and has not been subject to significant deterioration. Additionally, guarantees on loans
greater than $1 million and owner guarantees for small business loans do not significantly impact our ALLL.  Allocations to non-impaired
consumer loan classes are based upon a roll-rate model which uses statistical relationships, calculated from historical data that estimate the movement of loan outstandings through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off.
 The ALLL is lower than it would have been otherwise due to the accounting treatment for purchased impaired loans. This treatment also results
in a lower ratio of ALLL to total loans. Loan loss reserves on the purchased impaired loans were not carried over on the date of acquisition. As of December 31, 2011, we have established reserves of $998 million for purchased impaired loans.
 A portion of the ALLL related to qualitative and measurement factors has been assigned to loan categories. These factors include, but are not
limited to, the following: 


 
•
 
 Industry concentrations and conditions, 


 
•
 
 Recent credit quality trends, 


 
•
 
 Recent loss experience in particular portfolios,



 
•
 
 Recent macro economic factors, 


 
•
 
 Changes in risk selection and underwriting standards, and 


 
•
 
 Timing of available information.  In addition to the ALLL, we maintain an allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit. We report this allowance as a liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We maintain the allowance
for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit at a level we believe is appropriate to absorb estimated probable losses on these unfunded credit facilities. We determine this amount using estimates of the probability of the ultimate funding and
losses related to those credit exposures. This methodology is very similar to the one we use for determining our ALLL.  We refer you to Note 5
Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for further information on key asset quality indicators that
we use to evaluate our portfolio and establish the allowances.  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
 












Dollars in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 January 1
  
$
4,887
 
 
$
5,072
 

 Total net charge-offs
  
 
(1,639
) 
 
 
(2,936
) 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
1,152
 
 
 
2,502
 

 Adoption of ASU 2009-17, Consolidations
  



 
 
141
 

 Net change in allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
108
 

 Other
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
 
 

 December 31
  
$
4,347
 
 
$
4,887
 

 Net charge-offs to average loans (for the year ended)
  
 
1.08
% 
 
 
1.91
% 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses to total loans
  
 
2.73
 
 
 
3.25
 

 Commercial lending net charge-offs
  
$
(712
) 
 
$
(1,590
) 

 Consumer lending net charge-offs
  
 
(927
) 
 
 
(1,346
) 

 Total net charge-offs
  
$
(1,639
) 
 
$
(2,936
) 

 Net charge-offs to average loans (for the year ended)
  



 


 

 Commercial lending
  
 
.86
% 
 
 
1.96
% 

 Consumer lending
  
 
1. 33
 
 
 
1.85
 
 As further described in the Consolidated Income Statement Review section of this Item 7, the provision for credit
losses totaled $1.2 billion for the full year of 2011 compared to $2.5 billion for the full year of 2010. For the full year of 2011, the provision for commercial lending credit losses declined by $527 million or 75% from the full year of 2010.
Similarly, the provision for consumer lending credit losses decreased $823 million or 46% from the full year of 2010.  
 
82    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

At December 31, 2011, total ALLL to total nonperforming loans was 122%. The comparable amount for December
31, 2010 was 109%. The allowance allocated to consumer loans and lines of credit not secured by residential real estate and purchased impaired loans, which are both excluded from nonperforming loans, totaled $1.4 billion at both December 31,
2011, and 2010. See the Nonperforming Assets By Type table within this Credit Risk Management section for additional information. Excluding these balances, the allowance as a percent of nonperforming loans was 84% and 77% as of December 31,
2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.  See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan
Commitments and Letters of Credit and Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report regarding changes in the ALLL and in the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of
credit.  CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS  From a credit risk management perspective, we use credit default swaps (CDS) as a tool to manage risk concentrations in the credit portfolio. That risk management could come from protection purchased or
sold in the form of single name or index products. When we buy loss protection by purchasing a CDS, we pay a fee to the seller, or CDS counterparty, in return for the right to receive a payment if a specified credit event occurs for a particular
obligor or reference entity.  When we sell protection, we receive a CDS premium from the buyer in return for PNC’s obligation to pay the
buyer if a specified credit event occurs for a particular obligor or reference entity.  We evaluate the counterparty credit worthiness for all
our CDS activities. Counterparty credit lines are approved based on a review of credit quality in accordance with our traditional credit quality standards and credit policies. The credit risk of our counterparties is monitored in the normal course
of business. In addition, all counterparty credit lines are subject to collateral thresholds and exposures above these thresholds are secured. 
CDSs are included in the “Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under GAAP” table in the Financial Derivatives section of this Risk
Management discussion.  OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human factors, or external events. This includes
losses that may arise as a result of non-compliance with laws or regulations, failure to fulfill fiduciary responsibilities, as well as litigation or other legal actions. Operational risk may occur in any of our business activities and manifests
itself in various ways, including but not limited to: 


 
•
 
 Transaction processing errors, 


 
•
 
 Unauthorized transactions and fraud by employees or third parties,



 
•
 
 Material disruption in business activities, 


 
•
 
 System breaches and misuse of sensitive information, 


 
•
 
 Regulatory or governmental actions, fines or penalties, and 


 
•
 
 Significant legal expenses, judgments or settlements.  Operational Risk Management focuses on balancing business needs, regulatory expectations and risk management priorities through a balanced, adaptive and proactive program that is designed to provide a
strong governance model, sound and consistent management processes and transparent operational risk reporting across the enterprise.  We
manage operational risk based upon a comprehensive framework that enables the company to determine the enterprise and individual business unit’s operational risk profile in comparison to the established risk appetite and identify operational
risks that may require further mitigation. This framework is established around a set of enterprise-wide policies and a system of internal controls that are designed to manage risk and to provide management with timely and accurate information about
the operations of PNC. This framework employs a number of techniques to manage operational risk, including: 


 
•
 
 Risk and Control Self-Assessments (RCSAs) are performed at least annually across PNC’s businesses, processes, systems and products. RCSA
methodology is a standard process for management to self assess operational risks, evaluate control effectiveness, and determine if risk exposure is within established tolerances; 


 
•
 
 Scenario Analysis is leveraged to proactively evaluate operational loss events with the potential for severe business, financial, operational or
regulatory impact on the company or a major business unit. This methodology leverages standard processes and tools to evaluate a wide range of business and operational risks encompassing both external and internal events relevant to the company.
Based upon scenario analysis conclusions, management may implement additional controls or risk management activities to reduce exposure to an acceptable level; 


 
•
 
 A Key Risk Indicator (KRI) framework allows management to assess actual operational risk results compared to expectations and thresholds, as well as
proactively identify unexpected shifts in operational risk exposure or control effectiveness. Enterprise-level KRIs are designed to monitor exposure across the different inherent operational risk types. Business-specific KRIs are established in
support of the individual risk and control self assessments; and 


 
•
 
 Operational loss events across the enterprise are continuously captured and maintained in a central repository. This information is analyzed and used
to help determine the root causes of these events and to identify trends that could indicate changes in the company’s risk exposure or control effectiveness.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    83 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
PNC utilizes a number of sources to identify external loss events occurring across the financial services industry. These events are evaluated to determine whether PNC is exposed to similar
events, and if so, whether the appropriate controls are in place.  Operational Risk Management, Compliance and Legal
professionals work closely with business areas to evaluate risks and help ensure the appropriate controls are established prior to the introduction of new or enhanced products, services, and technologies. These risk professionals also consult with
business areas in the design and implementation of mitigation strategies to address risks and issues identified through ongoing assessment and monitoring activities.  We are in the process of implementing a methodology to estimate capital requirements for Operational Risk using a proprietary version of an Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA). Under the AMA approach, the
results of the program elements described above are key inputs directly incorporated into the capital calculation methodology.  PNC’s
technology risk management and business resiliency programs are aligned with the operational risk framework. Our integrated security and technology risk management framework is designed to help ensure a secure, sound, and compliant infrastructure
for information and system management. The technology risk management process is aligned with the strategic direction of the businesses and is integrated into the technology management culture, structure and practices. 
Our business resiliency program manages the organization’s capabilities to provide services in the case of an event that results in material
disruption of business activities. Prioritization of investments in people, processes, technology and facilities is based on different types of events, business risk and criticality. Detailed testing validates our resiliency capabilities on an
ongoing basis, and an integrated governance model is designed to help assure appropriate management reporting.  PNC uses insurance where
appropriate to mitigate the effects of operational risk events. PNC purchases direct coverage provided by various insurers, and retains certain corporate risks via one of its two wholly owned captive insurance companies, Alpine Indemnity Limited.
PNC’s retention of corporate risks associated with its participation as an insurer is mitigated through policy limits. Insurance purchased in the external market is governed by PNC’s Financial Stability Carrier guidelines. 
As a component of PNC’s risk management practices, we purchase insurance designed to protect us against accidental loss or losses, which, in the
aggregate, may significantly affect


personnel, property, financial objectives, or our ability to continue to meet our responsibilities to our various stakeholder groups.  On a quarterly basis, an enterprise operational risk report is made reporting key operational risks to senior management and the Board of Directors. The report encompasses key operational risk management
conclusions, including the overall operational risk level, risk management effectiveness and outlook, grounded in quantitative measures and qualitative factors. Key enterprise operational risks are also included in the enterprise risk report. In
addition, operational risk is an integrated part of the quarterly business-specific risk reports.  MODEL
RISK MANAGEMENT  PNC relies on quantitative models to measure risks and to estimate certain financial
values. Models may be used in such processes as determining the pricing of various products, grading and granting loans, measuring interest rate risks and other market risks, predicting losses, and assessing capital adequacy, as well as to estimate
the value of financial instruments and balance sheet items. There are risks involved in the use of models as they have the potential to provide inaccurate output or results, could be used for purposes other than those for which they have been
designed, or may be operated in an uncontrolled environment where unauthorized changes can take place and where other control risks exist. Model Risk Management is responsible for policies and procedures describing how model risk is evaluated and
managed, and the application of the governance process to implement these practices throughout the enterprise.  To better manage our business,
our practices around the use of models, and to comply with regulatory guidance and requirements, we have in place policies and procedures that define our governance processes for assessing and controlling model risk. These processes focus on
identifying, reporting, and remediating any problems with the soundness, accuracy, improper use, or operating environment of our models. We recognize that models must be monitored over time to ensure their continued accuracy and functioning, and our
policies also address the type and frequency of monitoring that is appropriate according to the importance of each model.  There are a number
of practices we undertake to identify and control model risk. A primary consideration is that models be well understood by those who use them as well as by other parties. Our policies require detailed written model documentation for significant
models to assist in making their use transparent and understood by users, independent reviewers, and regulatory and auditing bodies. The documentation must include details on the data and methods used to develop each model, assumptions utilized
within the model, and a description of model limitations and circumstances in which a model should not be relied upon.  
 
84    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Our modeling methods and data are reviewed by independent model reviewers not involved in the development
of the model to identify possible errors or areas where the soundness of the model could be in question. Issues identified by the independent reviewer are tracked and reported using our existing governance structure until the issue has been fully
remediated. It is important that models operate in a controlled environment where access to code or the ability to make changes is limited to those so authorized. Additionally, proper back-up and recovery mechanisms are needed for the ongoing
functioning of models. Our use of independent model control reviewers aids in the evaluation of the existing control mechanisms to help ensure that controls are appropriate and are functioning properly. 
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT  Liquidity risk has two fundamental components. The first is potential loss assuming we were unable to meet our funding requirements at a reasonable cost. The second is the potential inability to operate
our businesses because adequate contingent liquidity is not available in a stressed environment. We manage liquidity risk at the consolidated company level (bank, parent company, and nonbank subsidiaries combined) to help ensure that we can obtain
cost-effective funding to meet current and future obligations under both normal “business as usual” and stressful circumstances, and to help ensure that we maintain an appropriate level of contingent liquidity. 
Spot and forward funding gap analyses are used to measure and monitor consolidated liquidity risk. Funding gaps represent the difference in projected
sources of liquidity available to offset projected uses. We calculate funding gaps for the overnight, thirty-day, ninety-day, one hundred eighty-day and one-year time intervals. Management also monitors liquidity through a series of early warning
indicators that may indicate a potential market, or PNC-specific, liquidity stress event. Finally, management performs a set of liquidity stress tests and maintains a contingency funding plan to address a potential liquidity crisis. In the most
severe liquidity stress simulation, we assume that PNC’s liquidity position is under pressure, while the market in general is under systemic pressure. The simulation considers, among other things, the impact of restricted access to both secured
and unsecured external sources of funding, accelerated run-off of customer deposits, valuation pressure on assets, and heavy demand to fund contingent obligations. Risk limits are established within our Liquidity Risk Policy. Management’s Asset
and Liability Committee regularly reviews compliance with the established limits.  Parent company liquidity guidelines are designed to help
ensure that sufficient liquidity is available to meet our parent company obligations over the succeeding 24-month period. Risk limits for parent company liquidity are established within our Enterprise Capital and Liquidity Management Policy. The


Board of Directors’ Risk Committee regularly reviews compliance with the established limits.  Bank Level Liquidity – Uses  Obligations requiring the use of liquidity can
generally be characterized as either contractual or discretionary. At the bank level, primary contractual obligations include funding loan commitments, satisfying deposit withdrawal requests and maturities and debt service related to bank
borrowings. We also maintain adequate bank liquidity to meet future potential loan demand and provide for other business needs, as necessary. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately $7.3 billion of bank borrowings with contractual
maturities of less than one year.  Bank Level Liquidity – Sources  Our largest source of bank liquidity on a consolidated basis is the deposit base that comes from our retail and commercial businesses. Liquid assets and unused borrowing capacity from a number of sources
are also available to maintain our liquidity position. Borrowed funds come from a diverse mix of short and long-term funding sources.  At
December 31, 2011, our liquid assets consisted of short-term investments (Federal funds sold, resale agreements, trading securities, and interest-earning deposits with banks) totaling $5.9 billion and securities available for sale totaling
$48.6 billion. Of our total liquid assets of $54.5 billion, we had $20.1 billion pledged as collateral for borrowings, trust, and other commitments. The level of liquid assets fluctuates over time based on many factors, including market conditions,
loan and deposit growth and active balance sheet management.  In addition to the customer deposit base, which has historically provided the
single largest source of relatively stable and low-cost funding and liquid assets, the bank also obtains liquidity through the issuance of traditional forms of funding including long-term debt (senior notes and subordinated debt and FHLB advances)
and short-term borrowings (Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, commercial paper issuances, and other short-term borrowings).  PNC Bank, N.A. has the ability to offer up to $20 billion in senior and subordinated unsecured debt obligations with maturities of more than nine months. Through December 31, 2011, PNC Bank, N.A. had
issued $6.9 billion of debt under this program. Total senior and subordinated debt declined to $4.1 billion at December 31, 2011 from $5.5 billion at December 31, 2010 due to contractual maturities. 
PNC Bank, N.A. is a member of the FHLB-Pittsburgh and as such has access to advances from FHLB-Pittsburgh secured generally by residential mortgage and
other mortgage-related loans. At December 31, 2011, our unused secured borrowing capacity was $10.6 billion with FHLB-Pittsburgh. Total
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    85 


Table of Contents


FHLB borrowings increased to $7.0 billion at December 31, 2011 from $6.0 billion at December 31, 2010 due to $2.0 billion in new borrowings partially offset by maturities. 
PNC Bank, N.A. has the ability to offer up to $3.0 billion of its commercial paper to provide additional liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, there
were no issuances outstanding under this program. Other borrowed funds on our Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $4.3 billion of commercial paper issued by Market Street Funding LLC, a consolidated VIE. 
PNC Bank, N.A. can also borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland’s (Federal Reserve Bank) discount window to meet short-term liquidity
requirements. The Federal Reserve Bank, however, is not viewed as the primary means of funding our routine business activities, but rather as a potential source of liquidity in a stressed environment or during a market disruption. These potential
borrowings are secured by securities and commercial loans. At December 31, 2011, our unused secured borrowing capacity was $26.9 billion with the Federal Reserve Bank.  Parent Company Liquidity – Uses  Obligations requiring the use of liquidity can
generally be characterized as either contractual or discretionary. The parent company’s contractual obligations consist primarily of debt service related to parent company borrowings and funding non-bank affiliates. Additionally, the parent
company maintains adequate liquidity to fund discretionary activities such as paying dividends to PNC shareholders, share repurchases, and acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately $4.0 billion of parent company borrowings
with contractual maturities of less than one year. In addition, we will use approximately $3.5 billion of parent company cash and short-term investments to acquire RBC Bank (USA) in March 2012. 
See “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Report for information regarding the Federal Reserve’s current supervisory
assessment of capital adequacy program (the 2012 CCAR), including its impact on our ability to take certain capital actions, including plans to pay or increase common stock dividends or to reinstate or increase common stock repurchase programs.
 See Capital and Liquidity Actions in the Executive Summary section of this Item 7 for additional information regarding our December 2011
announcement that the Federal Reserve approved the acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) and that the OCC approved the merger of RBC Bank (USA) with and into PNC Bank, N.A. with these transactions scheduled to close March 2012, our November 2011 redemption
of trust preferred securities, our September 2011 issuance of senior notes, our July 2011 issuance of preferred stock, and our April 2011 increase to PNC’s quarterly common stock dividend. We did not repurchase any shares under PNC’s
existing common stock repurchase program in 2011. 
Parent Company Liquidity – Sources 
The principal source of parent company liquidity is the dividends it receives from its subsidiary bank, which may be impacted by the following:



 
•
 
 Bank-level capital needs, 


 
•
 
 Laws and regulations, 


 
•
 
 Corporate policies, 


 
•
 
 Contractual restrictions, and 


 
•
 
 Other factors.  The amount
available for dividend payments by PNC Bank, N.A. to the parent company without prior regulatory approval was approximately $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the ability of national banks to
pay dividends or make other capital distributions or to extend credit to the parent company or its non-bank subsidiaries. See Note 21 Regulatory Matters in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for a further
discussion of these limitations. Dividends may also be impacted by the bank’s capital needs and by contractual restrictions. We provide additional information on certain contractual restrictions under the “Trust Preferred Securities”
section of the Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements And Variable Interest Entities section of this Item 7 and in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Report.  In addition to dividends from PNC Bank, N.A., other sources of parent company liquidity include cash and
short-term investments, as well as dividends and loan repayments from other subsidiaries and dividends or distributions from equity investments. As of December 31, 2011, the parent company had approximately $7.8 billion in funds available from
its cash and short-term investments.  We can also generate liquidity for the parent company and PNC’s non-bank subsidiaries through the
issuance of debt securities and equity securities, including certain capital securities, in public or private markets and commercial paper. We have effective shelf registration statements pursuant to which we can issue additional debt and equity
securities, including certain hybrid capital instruments. Total senior and subordinated debt and hybrid capital instruments declined to $16.0 billion at December 31, 2011 from $17.3 billion at December 31, 2010 due to maturities.
 During 2011 we issued the following securities under our shelf registration statement: 


 
•
 
 $1.25 billion of senior notes issued September 19, 2011 and due September 2016. Interest is paid semi-annually at a fixed rate of 2.70%,



 
•
 
 One million depositary shares, each representing a 1/100th interest in a share of our Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series O, issued
July 27, 2011, resulting in gross proceeds to us before commissions and expenses of $1 billion.  
 
86    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

The parent company, through its subsidiary PNC Funding Corp, has the ability to offer up to $3.0 billion of
commercial paper to provide additional liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, there were no issuances outstanding under this program.  Note
18 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report describes our February 2010 redemption of all 75,792 shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Shares, Series N (Series N Preferred Stock) that
had been issued on December 31, 2008 to the US Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the acceleration of the accretion of the remaining issuance discount on the Series N Preferred Stock in the first quarter of 2010 (and a
corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $250 million in the first quarter of 2010), and the exchange by the US Treasury of the TARP warrant issued to it on December 31, 2008 into warrants, each to purchase one share of PNC common stock
at an exercise price of $67.33, sold by the US Treasury in a secondary public offering in May 2010. These common stock warrants will expire December 31, 2018.  Status of Credit Ratings  The cost and availability of short-term and long-term
funding, as well as collateral requirements for certain derivative instruments, is influenced by PNC’s debt ratings.  In general, rating
agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, level and


quality of earnings, and the current legislative and regulatory environment, including implied government support. In addition, rating agencies themselves have been subject to scrutiny arising
from the financial crisis and could make or be required to make substantial changes to their ratings policies and practices, particularly in response to legislative and regulatory changes, including as a result of provisions in Dodd-Frank. Potential
changes in the legislative and regulatory environment and the timing of those changes could impact our ratings, which as noted above, could impact our liquidity and financial condition. A decrease, or potential decrease, in credit ratings could
impact access to the capital markets and/or increase the cost of debt, and thereby adversely affect liquidity and financial condition.  Credit
ratings as of December 31, 2011 for PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. follow:   
















  
  
Moody’s
 
  
Standard&Poor’s
 
  
Fitch
 

 The PNC FinancialServices Group, Inc.
  



  



  


 

 Senior debt
  
 
A3
  
  
 
A-
  
  
 
A+
  

 Subordinated debt
  
 
Baa1
  
  
 
BBB+
  
  
 
A
  

 Preferred stock
  
 
Baa3
  
  
 
BBB
  
  
 
A-
  




 

 PNC Bank, N.A.
  



  



  


 

 Subordinated debt
  
 
A3
  
  
 
A-
  
  
 
A
  

 Long-term deposits
  
 
A2
  
  
 
A
  
  
 
AA-
  

 Short-term deposits
  
 
P-1
  
  
 
A-1
  
  
 
F1+
  
  
  Commitments 
The following tables set forth contractual obligations and various other commitments as of December 31, 2011 representing required and potential cash
outflows.   
























Contractual Obligations
  
  
 
  
Payment Due By Period
 

December 31, 2011 – in millions
  
Total
 
  
Less thanone year
 
  
One to threeyears
 
  
Four tofiveyears
 
  
After fiveyears
 

 Remaining contractual maturities of time deposits (a)
  
$
31,632
 
  
$
25,021
 
  
$
4,146
 
  
$
1,267
 
  
$
1,198
 

 Borrowed funds (a) (b)
  
 
36,704
 
  
 
15,794
 
  
 
6,088
 
  
 
4,679
 
  
 
10,143
 

 Minimum annual rentals on noncancellable leases
  
 
2,489
 
  
 
342
 
  
 
586
 
  
 
409
 
  
 
1,152
 

 Nonqualified pension and postretirement benefits
  
 
558
 
  
 
64
 
  
 
122
 
  
 
116
 
  
 
256
 

 Purchase obligations (c)
  
 
616
 
  
 
343
 
  
 
202
 
  
 
55
 
  
 
16
 

 Total contractual cash obligations
  
$
71,999
 
  
$
41,564
 
  
$
11,144
 
  
$
6,526
 
  
$
12,765
 



(a)
Includes purchase accounting adjustments. 


(b)
Includes basis adjustment relating to accounting hedges. 


(c)
Includes purchase obligations for goods and services covered by noncancellable contracts and contracts including cancellation fees. 
At December 31, 2011, unrecognized tax benefits totaled $209 million. This liability for unrecognized tax benefits represents an estimate of tax
positions that we have taken in our tax returns which ultimately may not be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. Since the ultimate amount and timing of any future cash settlements cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty, this
estimated liability has been excluded from the contractual obligations table. See Note 20 Income Taxes in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    87 


Table of Contents
Our contractual obligations totaled $84.6 billion at December 31, 2010. The decline in the comparison
is primarily attributable to decreases in the remaining contractual maturities of time deposits and borrowed funds.   
























Other Commitments (a)
  
  
 
  
Amount Of Commitment Expiration By Period
 

December 31, 2011 – in millions
  
TotalAmountsCommitted
 
  
Less thanone year
 
  
One to threeyears
 
  
Four tofive years
 
  
Afterfiveyears
 

 Net unfunded credit commitments
  
$
103,271
 
  
$
48,011
 
  
$
31,491
 
  
$
23,167
 
  
$
602
 

 Standby letters of credit (b)
  
 
10,769
 
  
 
4,537
 
  
 
5,004
 
  
 
1,107
 
  
 
121
 

 Reinsurance agreements (c)
  
 
6,432
 
  
 
2,959
 
  
 
105
 
  
 
50
 
  
 
3,318
 

 Other commitments (d)
  
 
707
 
  
 
367
 
  
 
251
 
  
 
85
 
  
 
4
 

 Total commitments
  
$
121,179
 
  
$
55,874
 
  
$
36,851
 
  
$
24,409
 
  
$
4,045
 



(a)
Other commitments are funding commitments that could potentially require performance in the event of demands by third parties or contingent events. Loan commitments are
reported net of syndications, assignments and participations. 


(b)
Includes $7.4 billion of standby letters of credit that support remarketing programs for customers’ variable rate demand notes. 


(c)
Reinsurance agreements are with third-party insurers related to insurance sold to our customers. 


(d)
Includes unfunded commitments related to private equity investments of $247 million and other investments of $3 million that are not on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Also includes commitments related to tax credit investments of $420 million and other direct equity investments of $37 million that are included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
 

MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW
 Market risk is the risk of a loss in earnings or economic value due to adverse movements in market factors such as interest rates,
credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, and equity prices. We are exposed to market risk primarily by our involvement in the following activities, among others: 


 
•
 
 Traditional banking activities of taking deposits and extending loans, 


 
•
 
 Equity and other investments and activities whose economic values are directly impacted by market factors, and 


 
•
 
 Trading in fixed income products, equities, derivatives, and foreign exchange, as a result of customer activities and underwriting.
 We have established enterprise-wide policies and methodologies to identify, measure, monitor, and report market risk.
Market Risk Management provides independent oversight by monitoring compliance with these limits and guidelines, and reporting significant risks in the business to the Risk Committee of the Board. 
MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT – INTEREST RATE RISK
 Interest rate risk results primarily from our traditional banking activities of gathering deposits and extending loans. Many factors,
including economic and financial conditions, movements in interest rates, and consumer preferences, affect the difference between the interest that we earn on assets and the interest that we pay on liabilities and the level of our
noninterest-bearing funding sources. Due to the repricing term mismatches and embedded options inherent in certain of these products, changes in market interest rates not only affect expected near-term earnings, but also the economic values of these
assets and liabilities.  Asset and Liability Management centrally manages interest rate risk set forth in our risk management policies
approved by management’s Asset and Liability Committee and the Risk Committee of the Board.

Sensitivity results and market interest rate benchmarks for the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010 follow:
 Interest Sensitivity Analysis   












  
  
FourthQuarter2011
 
 
FourthQuarter2010
 

 Net Interest Income Sensitivity Simulation
  



 


 

 Effect on net interest income in first year from gradual interest rate change over following 12 months of:
  



 


 

 100 basis point increase
  
 
2.3
% 
 
 
1.4
% 

 100 basis point decrease (a)
  
 
(1.5
)% 
 
 
(1.4
)% 

 Effect on net interest income in second year from gradual interest rate change over the preceding 12 months of:
  



 


 

 100 basis point increase
  
 
7.1
% 
 
 
4.1
% 

 100 basis point decrease (a)
  
 
(4.4
)% 
 
 
(4.8
)% 

 Duration of Equity Model (a)
  



 


 

 Base case duration of equity (in years):
  
 
(6.2
) 
 
 
(.5
) 

 Key Period-End Interest Rates
  



 


 

 One-month LIBOR
  
 
.30
% 
 
 
.26
% 

 Three-year swap
  
 
.82
% 
 
 
1.28
% 



(a)
Given the inherent limitations in certain of these measurement tools and techniques, results become less meaningful as interest rates approach zero.
 In addition to measuring the effect on net interest income assuming parallel changes in current interest rates, we routinely
simulate the effects of a number of nonparallel interest rate environments. The following Net Interest Income Sensitivity to Alternative Rate Scenarios table reflects the percentage change in net interest income over the next two 12-month periods
assuming (i) the PNC Economist’s most likely rate forecast, (ii) implied market forward rates, and (iii) a Two-Ten Slope decrease (a 200 basis point decrease between two-year and ten-year rates superimposed on current base rates)
scenario.  
 
88    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Net Interest Income Sensitivity to Alternative Rate Scenarios (Fourth Quarter 2011)
  
















  
  
PNCEconomist
 
 
MarketForward
 
 
Two-TenSlope
 

 First year sensitivity
  
 
.9
% 
 
 
.8
% 
 
 
.4
% 

 Second year sensitivity
  
 
4.1
% 
 
 
3.1
% 
 
 
.9
% 
 All changes in forecasted net interest income are relative to results in a base rate scenario where current market rates
are assumed to remain unchanged over the forecast horizon.  When forecasting net interest income, we make assumptions about interest rates and
the shape of the yield curve, the volume and characteristics of new business, and the behavior of existing on- and off-balance sheet positions. These assumptions determine the future level of simulated net interest income in the base interest rate
scenario and the other interest rate scenarios presented in the above table. These simulations assume that as assets and liabilities mature, they are replaced or repriced at then current market rates. We also consider forward projections of purchase
accounting accretion when forecasting net interest income.  The following graph presents the yield curves for the base rate scenario and each
of the alternate scenarios one year forward.    

 The fourth quarter 2011 interest sensitivity analyses indicate that our Consolidated Balance Sheet is positioned to
benefit from an increase in interest rates and an upward sloping interest rate yield curve. We believe that we have the deposit funding base and balance sheet flexibility to adjust, where appropriate and permissible, to changing interest rates and
market conditions.  MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT – TRADING
RISK  Our trading activities are primarily customer-driven trading in fixed income securities, derivatives, and foreign
exchange contracts. They also include the underwriting of fixed income and equity securities.

We use value-at-risk (VaR) as the primary means to measure and monitor market risk in trading activities.
We calculate VaR at both a 99% non diversified and 95% diversified confidence interval. The 99% VaR is used for computing our regulatory market risk capital charge while 95% VaR is used for internal management reporting. PNC began measuring
enterprise wide VaR internally on a diversified basis at a 95% confidence interval in the second quarter of 2011. We believe a diversified VaR is a better representation of risk as it reflects empirical correlations across different asset classes.
Additionally, moving to a 95% confidence level provides a more stable measure of the VaR for day-to-day risk management. During 2011, our 95% VaR ranged between $.4 million and $3.5 million, averaging $.8 million. 
During 2011, our 99% non-diversified VaR ranged between $1.0 million and $6.8 million, averaging $1.8 million. During 2010, our VaR ranged between $2.3
million and $8.8 million, averaging $5.4 million.  To help ensure the integrity of the models used to calculate VaR for each portfolio and
enterprise-wide, we use a process known as backtesting. The backtesting process consists of comparing actual observations of trading-related gains or losses against the VaR levels that were calculated at the close of the prior day. Over a typical
business cycle, we would expect an average of twelve to thirteen instances a year in which actual losses exceeded the prior day VaR measure at the enterprise-wide level at a 95% confidence interval. There were no such instances during the year ended
December 31, 2011 under our diversified VaR measure. We use a 500 day look back period for backtesting and include customer related revenue. Including customer revenue helps to reduce trading losses and therefore, there were no instances of
actual losses exceeding the prior day VaR measure.  The following graph shows a comparison of enterprise-wide trading-related gains and losses
against prior day diversified VaR for the period.    

 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    89 


Table of Contents

Total trading revenue was as follows:  Trading Revenue   
















 Year ended December 31 In millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net interest income
  
$
43
 
  
$
55
 
  
$
61
 

 Noninterest income
  
 
225
 
  
 
183
 
  
 
170
 

 Total trading revenue
  
$
268
 
  
$
238
 
  
$
231
 

 Securities underwriting and trading (a)
  
$
81
 
  
$
94
 
  
$
75
 

 Foreign exchange
  
 
88
 
  
 
76
 
  
 
73
 

 Financial derivatives and other
  
 
99
 
  
 
68
 
  
 
83
 

 Total trading revenue
  
$
268
 
  
$
238
 
  
$
231
 



(a)
Includes changes in fair value for certain loans accounted for at fair value.  The trading revenue disclosed above includes results from providing investing and risk management services to our customers as well as results from hedges of customer activity. Trading revenue excludes
the impact of economic hedging activities which we transact to manage risk primarily related to residential mortgage servicing rights, residential and commercial mortgage loans held-for-sale, and certain residential mortgage-backed agency securities
with embedded derivatives. Derivatives used for economic hedges are not designated as accounting hedges because the contracts they are hedging are typically also carried at fair value on the balance sheet, resulting in symmetrical accounting
treatment for both the hedging instrument and the hedged item. Economic hedge results are reported in noninterest income along with the associated hedge items.  Trading revenue for 2011 increased $30 million compared with 2010 primarily due to higher derivatives and foreign exchange client sales revenues, improved client related trading results, and the reduced
impact of counterparty credit risk on valuations of derivative positions. These increases were partially offset by lower underwriting activity. 
Trading revenue increased $7 million in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to higher underwriting and derivatives client sales revenue, partially
offset by reduced proprietary and customer related trading results. Proprietary trading positions were essentially eliminated by the end of the second quarter of 2010.  MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT – EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENT RISK
 Equity investment risk is the risk of potential losses associated with investing in both private and public equity markets. PNC
invests primarily in private equity markets. In addition to extending credit, taking deposits, and underwriting and trading financial instruments, we make and manage direct investments in a variety of transactions, including management buyouts,
recapitalizations, and growth financings in a variety of industries. We also have investments in affiliated and non-affiliated funds that make similar investments in private equity and in debt and equity-oriented hedge funds. The


economic and/or book value of these investments and other assets such as loan servicing rights are directly affected by changes in market factors. 
The primary risk measurement for equity and other investments is economic capital. Economic capital is a common measure of risk for credit, market and
operational risk. It is an estimate of the potential value depreciation over a one year horizon commensurate with solvency expectations of an institution rated single-A by the credit rating agencies. Given the illiquid nature of many of these types
of investments, it can be a challenge to determine their fair values. See Note 8 Fair Value in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 
Various PNC business units manage our equity and other investment activities. Our businesses are responsible for making investment decisions within the
approved policy limits and associated guidelines.  A summary of our equity investments follows: 
 












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 BlackRock
  
$
5,291
 
  
 
$5,017
 

 Tax credit investments
  
 
2,646
 
  
 
2,054
 

 Private equity
  
 
1,491
 
  
 
1,375
 

 Visa
  
 
456
 
  
 
456
 

 Other
  
 
250
 
  
 
318
 

 Total
  
$
10,134
 
  
$
9,220
 
 BlackRock  PNC owned approximately 36 million common stock equivalent shares of BlackRock equity at December 31, 2011, accounted for under the equity method. The primary risk measurement, similar to other
equity investments, is economic capital. The Business Segments Review section of this Item 7 includes additional information about BlackRock.  Tax Credit Investments  Included in our equity investments are tax credit
investments which are accounted for under the equity method. These investments, as well as equity investments held by consolidated partnerships, totaled $2.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010. 
Private Equity  The private
equity portfolio is an illiquid portfolio comprised of mezzanine and equity investments that vary by industry, stage and type of investment. 
Private equity investments carried at estimated fair value totaled $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010. As
of December 31, 2011, $856 million was invested directly in a variety of companies and $635 million was invested indirectly through various private equity
 
 
90    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


funds. Included in direct investments are investment activities of two private equity funds that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes. The noncontrolling interests of these funds
totaled $241 million as of December 31, 2011. The indirect private equity funds are not redeemable, but PNC receives distributions over the life of the partnership from liquidation of the underlying investments by the investee. 
Our unfunded commitments related to private equity totaled $247 million at December 31, 2011 compared with $319 million at December 31, 2010.
 Visa  At
December 31, 2011, our investment in Visa Class B common shares totaled approximately 23 million shares. In March 2011, Visa funded $400 million to their litigation escrow account and reduced the conversion ratio of Visa B to A shares. We
consequently recognized our estimated $38 million share of the $400 million as a reduction of our previously established indemnification liability and a reduction of noninterest expense. In December 2011, Visa funded $1.6 billion to their litigation
escrow account and reduced the conversion ratio of Visa B to A shares. We consequently recognized $32 million as a reduction of our previously established indemnification liability and a reduction of noninterest expense. As of December 31,
2011, our recognized Visa indemnification liability was zero. As we continue to have an obligation to indemnify Visa for judgments and settlements for the remaining specified litigation, we may have additional exposure in the future to the specified
Visa litigation.  As of December 31, 2011, we had recognized $456 million of our Visa ownership. Based on the December 31, 2011
closing price of $101.53 for the Visa Class A shares, the market value of our total investment was approximately $1.0 billion at the current conversion ratio which considers all litigation funding by Visa to date. The Visa Class B common shares
we own generally will not be transferable, except under limited circumstances, until they can be converted into shares of the publicly traded class of stock, which cannot happen until the settlement of all of the specified litigation. It is expected
that Visa will continue to adjust the conversion ratio of Visa Class B to Class A shares in connection with any settlements in excess of any amounts then in escrow for that purpose and will also reduce the conversion ratio to the extent that it
adds any funds to the escrow in the future.  Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item 8 of this Report has further information on our Visa indemnification obligation.  Other Investments 
We also make investments in affiliated and non-affiliated funds with both traditional and alternative investment strategies. The economic values could be
driven by either the fixed-income market or the equity markets, or both. At


December 31, 2011, other investments totaled $250 million compared with $318 million at December 31, 2010. We recognized net gains related to these investments of $1 million during
2011, compared with $43 million during 2010.  Given the nature of these investments, if market conditions affecting their valuation were to
worsen, we could incur future losses.  Our unfunded commitments related to other investments totaled $3 million at December 31, 2011 and
$11 million at December 31, 2010.  IMPACT OF INFLATION 
Our assets and liabilities are primarily financial in nature and typically have varying maturity dates. Accordingly, future changes in prices do not
affect the obligations to pay or receive fixed and determinable amounts of money. However, during periods of inflation, there may be a subsequent impact affecting certain fixed costs or expenses, an erosion of consumer and customer purchasing power,
and fluctuations in the needs or demand for our products and services. Should significant levels of inflation occur, our business could potentially be impacted by, among other things, reducing our tolerance for extending credit or causing us to
incur additional credit losses resulting from possible increased default rates.  FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES
 We use a variety of financial derivatives as part of the overall asset and liability risk management process to help manage interest
rate, market and credit risk inherent in our business activities. Substantially all such instruments are used to manage risk related to changes in interest rates. Interest rate and total return swaps, interest rate caps and floors, swaptions,
options, forwards and futures contracts are the primary instruments we use for interest rate risk management. We also enter into derivatives with customers to facilitate their risk management activities. 
Financial derivatives involve, to varying degrees, interest rate, market and credit risk. For interest rate swaps and total return swaps, options and
futures contracts, only periodic cash payments and, with respect to options, premiums are exchanged. Therefore, cash requirements and exposure to credit risk are significantly less than the notional amount on these instruments. 
Further information on our financial derivatives is presented in Note 1 Accounting Policies and Note 16 Financial Derivatives in the Notes To
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, which is incorporated here by reference.  Not all elements of interest rate,
market and credit risk are addressed through the use of financial or other derivatives, and such instruments may be ineffective for their intended purposes due to unanticipated market changes, among other reasons.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    91 


Table of Contents
The following table provides the notional or contractual amounts and estimated net fair value of financial
derivatives at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.   




















Financial Derivatives
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

In millions
  
Notional/ContractualAmount
 
  
EstimatedNet FairValue
 
  
Notional/ContractualAmount
 
  
EstimatedNet FairValue
 

 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts (a)
  



  



  



  


 

 Asset rate conversion
  



  



  



  


 

 Receive fixed swaps
  
$
13,902
 
  
$
529
 
  
$
14,452
 
  
$
332
 

 Pay fixed swaps (c) (d)
  
 
1,797
 
  
 
(116
) 
  
 
1,669
 
  
 
12
 

 Liability rate conversion
  



  



  



  


 

 Receive fixed swaps
  
 
10,476
 
  
 
1,316
 
  
 
9,803
 
  
 
834
 

 Forward purchase commitments
  
 
2,733
 
  
 
43
 
  
 
2,350
 
  
 
(8
) 

 Total interest rate risk management
  
 
28,908
 
  
 
1,772
 
  
 
28,274
 
  
 
1,170
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 FX forward
  
 
326
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments (b)
  
$
29,234
 
  
$
1,772
 
  
$
28,274
 
  
$
1,170
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  



  



  



  


 

 Derivatives used for residential mortgage banking activities:
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Swaps
  
$
98,406
 
  
$
454
 
  
$
83,421
 
  
$
63
 

 Futures
  
 
64,250
 
  



  
 
51,699
 
  


 

 Future options
  
 
8,000
 
  



  
 
31,250
 
  
 
21
 

 Bond options
  
 
1,250
 
  
 
3
 
  



  


 

 Swaptions
  
 
10,312
 
  
 
49
 
  
 
11,040
 
  
 
28
 

 Commitments related to residential mortgage assets
  
 
14,773
 
  
 
59
 
  
 
16,652
 
  
 
47
 

 Total residential mortgage banking activities
  
$
196,991
 
  
$
565
 
  
$
194,062
 
  
$
159
 

 Derivatives used for commercial mortgage banking activities:
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Swaps
  
$
1,180
 
  
$
(34
) 
  
$
1,744
 
  
$
(41
) 

 Swaptions
  
 
450
 
  
 
3
 
  



  


 

 Commitments related to commercial mortgage assets
  
 
995
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
1,228
 
  
 
5
 

 Credit contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Credit default swaps
  
 
95
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
210
 
  
 
8
 

 Total commercial mortgage banking activities
  
$
2,720
 
  
$
(21
) 
  
$
3,182
 
  
$
(28
) 

 Derivatives used for customer-related activities:
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Swaps (d)
  
$
122,088
 
  
$
(214
) 
  
$
92,248
 
  
$
(104
) 

 Caps/floors
  



  



  



  


 

 Sold
  
 
5,861
 
  
 
(6
) 
  
 
3,207
 
  
 
(15
) 

 Purchased
  
 
5,601
 
  
 
19
 
  
 
2,528
 
  
 
14
 

 Swaptions
  
 
1,713
 
  
 
63
 
  
 
2,165
 
  
 
13
 

 Futures
  
 
6,982
 
  



  
 
2,793
 
  


 

 Commitments related to residential mortgage assets (d)
  
 
487
 
  
 
(1
) 
  
 
738
 
  


 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
11,920
 
  
 
9
 
  
 
7,913
 
  
 
(6
) 

 Equity contracts
  
 
184
 
  
 
(3
) 
  
 
334
 
  
 
(3
) 

 Credit contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Risk participation agreements
  
 
3,259
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
2,738
 
  
 
3
 

 Total customer-related
  
$
158,095
 
  
$
(132
) 
  
$
114,664
 
  
$
(98
) 

 Derivatives used for other risk management activities:
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Swaps (d)
  
$
1,704
 
  
$
(34
) 
  
$
3,021
 
  
$
6
 

 Swaptions
  
 
225
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
100
 
  
 
4
 

 Futures
  
 
1,740
 
  



  
 
298
 
  


 

 Commitments related to residential mortgage assets
  



  



  
 
1,100
 
  
 
1
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
25
 
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
32
 
  
 
(4
) 

 Credit contracts
  



  



  



  


 

 Credit default swaps
  
 
209
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
551
 
  
 
8
 

 Other contracts (e)
  
 
386
 
  
 
(296
) 
  
 
209
 
  
 
(396
) 

 Total other risk management
  
$
4,289
 
  
$
(327
) 
  
$
5,311
 
  
$
(381
) 

 Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
  
$
362,095
 
  
$
85
 
  
$
317,219
 
  
$
(348
) 

 Total Gross Derivatives
  
$
391,329
 
  
$
1,857
 
  
$
345,493
 
  
$
822
 

 
92    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


(a)
The floating rate portion of interest rate contracts is based on money-market indices. As a percent of notional amount, 57% were based on 1-month LIBOR and 43% on
3-month LIBOR at December 31, 2011 compared with 58% and 42%, respectively, at December 31, 2010. 


(b)
Fair value amount includes net accrued interest receivable of $140 million at December 31, 2011 and $132 million at December 31, 2010.



(c)
Includes zero-coupon swaps. 


(d)
The increases in the negative fair values from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 for interest rate contracts, foreign exchange, equity contracts and
other contracts were due to the changes in fair values of the existing contracts along with new contracts entered into during 2011 and contracts terminated during that period. 


(e)
Includes PNC’s obligation to fund a portion of certain BlackRock LTIP programs and other contracts. 
 

2010 VERSUS 2009  CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT REVIEW  Summary Results  Net income for 2010 was $3.4 billion, or $5.74 per diluted common
share and for 2009 was $2.4 billion or $4.36 per diluted common share. For 2010, net income attributable to common shareholders and diluted earnings per common share were impacted by a noncash reduction of $250 million related to our redemption of
TARP preferred stock.  Net Interest Income  Net interest income was $9.2 billion for 2010 up 2% from 2009, while the net interest margin rose to 4.14% in 2010 compared with 3.82% for 2009.  Noninterest Income  Summary  
Noninterest income was $5.9 billion for 2010 and $7.1 billion for 2009. The primary driver of this change was a reduction of $916 million for BlackRock
related transactions. During fourth quarter 2010, we realized a pretax gain of $160 million on 7.5 million BlackRock common shares sold by PNC as a part of a BlackRock secondary common stock offering. During fourth quarter 2009, we recognized a
$1.1 billion pretax gain related to BlackRock’s acquisition of Barclays Global Investors (BGI).  Asset management revenue was $1.1
billion in 2010 compared with $858 million in 2009. This increase reflected higher equity earnings from our BlackRock investment, improved equity markets and client growth. Discretionary assets under management at December 31, 2010 totaled $108
billion compared with $103 billion at December 31, 2009.  Consumer services fees totaled $1.3 billion in both 2010 and 2009. Consumer
service fees for 2010 reflected higher volume-related transaction fees offset by lower brokerage fees and the impact of the January 1, 2010 consolidation of the securitized credit card portfolio. 
Corporate services revenue totaled $1.1 billion in 2010 and $1.0 billion in 2009. The increase was largely the result of higher merger and acquisition
advisory and ancillary commercial mortgage servicing fees partially offset by a reduction in the value of commercial mortgage servicing rights largely driven by lower interest rates. Corporate services fees include the noninterest component of
treasury management fees, which continued to be a strong contributor to revenue.

Residential mortgage revenue totaled $699 million in 2010 compared with $990 million in 2009. The decline
in 2010 reflected reduced loan sales revenue following the strong loan origination refinance volume in 2009 and lower net hedging gains on mortgage servicing rights.  There were lower service charges on deposits of $245 million in 2010 compared with 2009, partially resulting from the negative impact of the new Regulation E rules. 
Net securities gains increased by $128 million in 2010 compared with 2009 due to lower net credit related OTTI partially offset by lower gains on sales
of securities.  Gains on BlackRock related transactions included a fourth quarter 2010 pretax gain of $160 million from our sale of
7.5 million BlackRock common shares as part of a BlackRock secondary common stock offering. During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recognized a $1.1 billion pretax gain on PNC’s portion of the increase in BlackRock’s equity resulting
from the value of BlackRock shares issued by BlackRock in connection with its acquisition of BGI.  Other noninterest income totaled $884
million for 2010 compared with $987 million for 2009. Other noninterest income for 2009 included gains of $103 million primarily related to our BlackRock LTIP shares obligation. Other noninterest income for 2010 included net gains on alternative
investments, including private equity, of $258 million, compared with net losses on alternative investments, including private equity, of $93 million in 2009. Gains on sales of loans were $73 million in 2010 and $220 million in 2009. 
Provision For Credit Losses  The
provision for credit losses totaled $2.5 billion for 2010 compared with $3.9 billion for 2009. The lower provision in 2010 reflected credit exposure reductions and overall improved credit migration during 2010. 
Noninterest Expense  Noninterest
expense for 2010 declined 5%, to $8.6 billion, compared with $9.1 billion for 2009. The impact of higher cost savings related to the National City acquisition integration and the reversal of certain accrued liabilities in 2010, including $73 million
associated with a franchise tax settlement and $123 million associated with an indemnification liability for certain Visa litigation, were reflected in the lower 2010 expenses. Lower expenses in the comparison also reflected a special FDIC
assessment, intended to build the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund, of $133 million in 2009. We also continued to invest in customer growth and innovation initiatives.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    93 


Table of Contents

National City integration costs included in noninterest expense totaled $387 million in 2010 and $421
million in 2009. We achieved National City acquisition cost savings of $1.8 billion on an annualized basis in the fourth quarter of 2010 through the reduction of operational and administrative redundancies. This amount was higher than our original
goal of $1.2 billion, and ahead of schedule. During 2010, we completed the customer and branch conversions to our technology platforms and integrated the businesses and operations of National City with those of PNC. 
Effective Tax Rate  Our effective
tax rate was 25.5% for 2010 and 26.9% for 2009.  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
REVIEW  Loans  Loans decreased $6.9 billion, or 4%, to $150.6 billion as of December 31, 2010 compared with December 31, 2009. An increase in loans of $3.5 billion from the initial consolidation of Market
Street and the securitized credit card portfolio effective January 1, 2010 was more than offset by the impact of soft customer loan demand combined with loan repayments and payoffs in the portfolio. 
Loans represented 57% of total assets at December 31, 2010 and 58% at December 31, 2009. Commercial lending represented 53% of the loan
portfolio and consumer lending represented 47% at both December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Commercial real estate loans represented 7% of total assets at December 31, 2010 and 9% of total assets at December 31, 2009.
 Investment Securities 
The carrying amount of investment securities totaled $64.3 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $8.3 billion, or 15%, from $56.0 billion at
December 31, 2009. The increase in investment securities primarily reflected an increase in securities available for sale as excess liquidity was invested in short duration, high quality securities. Investment securities represented 24% of
total assets at December 31, 2010 and 21% at December 31, 2009.  In March 2010, we transferred $2.2 billion of available for sale
commercial mortgage-backed non-agency securities to the held to maturity portfolio. The transfer involved high quality securities where management’s intent to hold changed.  At December 31, 2010, the securities available for sale portfolio included a net unrealized loss of $861 million, which represented the difference between fair value and amortized cost. The
comparable amount at December 31, 2009 was a net unrealized loss of $2.3 billion. The expected weighted-average life of investment securities (excluding corporate stocks and other) was 4.7 years at December 31, 2010 and 4.1 years at
December 31, 2009. 
Loans Held For Sale  Loans held for sale totaled $3.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared with $2.5 billion at December 31, 2009. We stopped originating certain commercial mortgage loans designated as held for
sale during the first quarter of 2008 and continue pursuing opportunities to reduce these positions at appropriate prices. We sold $241 million of commercial mortgage loans held for sale carried at fair value in 2010 and sold $272 million in 2009.
 Residential mortgage loan origination volume was $10.5 billion in 2010. Substantially all such loans were originated under agency or Federal
Housing Administration (FHA) standards. We sold $10.0 billion of loans and recognized related gains of $231 million during 2010. The comparable amounts for 2009 were $19.8 billion and $435 million, respectively. 
Asset Quality  Nonperforming
assets decreased $1.1 billion to $5.1 billion at December 31, 2010 compared with $6.2 billion at December 31, 2009. Nonperforming loans decreased $1.2 billion to $4.5 billion since December 31, 2009 while OREO and foreclosed assets
increased $124 million to $657 million. The decrease in nonperforming loans was primarily due to improvements in our commercial lending and residential real estate portfolios, partially offset by increases in our consumer home equity portfolio.
These consumer home equity nonperforming loan increases were largely due to increases in troubled debt restructurings (TDRs).  At
December 31, 2010, our largest nonperforming asset was $35 million in the Accommodation and Food Services Industry and our average nonperforming loan associated with commercial lending was approximately $1 million. 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  Goodwill and other intangible assets totaled $10.8 billion at December 31, 2010 compared with $12.9 billion at December, 31, 2009. Goodwill declined $1.4 billion, to $8.1 billion, at
December 31, 2010 compared with the December 31, 2009 balance primarily due to the sale of GIS which reduced goodwill by $1.2 billion. The $.8 billion decline in other intangible assets from December 31, 2009 included $.3 billion
declines in both commercial and residential mortgage servicing rights due primarily to the sale of commercial mortgage servicing rights and residential mortgage servicing rights value changes resulting primarily from market-driven changes in
interest rates.  Funding Sources  Total funding sources were $222.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and $226.2 billion at December 31, 2009. Funding sources decreased $3.3 billion, primarily driven by declines in retail
certificates of deposit and Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, partially offset by increases in demand deposits and other borrowings.
 
 
94    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Total deposits decreased $3.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared with December 31, 2009.
Deposits decreased in the comparison primarily due to declines in retail certificates of deposit, time deposits in foreign offices and money market deposits, partially offset by an increase in demand deposits. 
Total borrowed funds increased $.2 billion to $39.5 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009. Other borrowed funds increased
in the comparison primarily due to the consolidation of Market Street and a credit card securitization trust. Additionally, bank notes and senior debt increased since December 31, 2009 due to net issuances. These increases were partially offset
in the comparison by a decline of Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings.  PNC issued $3.25 billion of senior notes in 2010. In March 2009, PNC
issued $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes guaranteed by the FDIC under the FDIC’s TLGP-Debt Guarantee Program (TLGP). In addition, PNC issued $1.5 billion of senior notes during the second and third quarters of 2009 that were not
issued under the TLGP.  Shareholders’ Equity  Total shareholders’ equity increased $.3 billion, to $30.2 billion, at December 31, 2010 compared with December 31, 2009 and included the impact of the following: 


 
•
 
 The first quarter 2010 issuance of 63.9 million shares of common stock in an underwritten offering at $54 per share resulted in a $3.4 billion
increase in total shareholders’ equity, 


 
•
 
 An increase of $2.7 billion to retained earnings, and 


 
•
 
 A $1.5 billion decline in accumulated other comprehensive loss largely due to decreases in net unrealized securities losses.
 The factors above were mostly offset by a decline of $7.3 billion in capital surplus-preferred stock in connection with our
February 2010 redemption of the Series N (TARP) Preferred Stock as explained further in Note 18 Equity in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.  Regulatory capital ratios at December 31, 2010 were 10.2% for leverage, 12.1% for Tier 1 risk-based and 15.6% for total risk-based capital. At December 31, 2009, the regulatory capital ratios
were 10.1% for leverage, 11.4% for Tier 1 risk-based and 15.0% for total risk-based capital. The increase in Tier 1 risk-based capital was attributable to retention of earnings in 2010, the first quarter 2010 equity offering, the third quarter 2010
sale of GIS, and lower risk-weighted assets. 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
Accretable net interest (Accretable yield) – The excess of cash flows expected to be collected on a purchased impaired loan over the carrying
value of the loan. The accretable net interest is recognized into interest income over the remaining life of the loan using the constant effective yield method.  Adjusted average total assets – Primarily comprised of total average quarterly (or annual) assets plus (less) unrealized losses (gains) on investment securities, less goodwill and certain
other intangible assets (net of eligible deferred taxes).  Annualized – Adjusted to reflect a full year of activity. 
Assets under management – Assets over which we have sole or shared investment authority for our customers/clients. We do not include these
assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Basis point – One hundredth of a percentage point. 
Carrying value of purchased impaired loans – The net value on the balance sheet which represents the recorded investment less any valuation
allowance.  Cash recoveries – Cash recoveries used in the context of purchased impaired loans represent cash payments from
customers that exceeded the recorded investment of the designated impaired loan.  Charge-off – Process of removing a loan or
portion of a loan from our balance sheet because it is considered uncollectible. We also record a charge-off when a loan is transferred from portfolio holdings to held for sale by reducing the loan carrying amount to the fair value of the loan, if
fair value is less than carrying amount.  Combined Loan-to-value ratio (CLTV) – This is the aggregate principal balance(s) of the
mortgages on a property divided by its appraised value or purchase price.  Commercial mortgage banking activities – Includes
commercial mortgage servicing, originating commercial mortgages for sale and related hedging activities. Commercial mortgage banking activities revenue includes commercial mortgage servicing (including net interest income and noninterest income from
loan servicing and ancillary services, net of commercial mortgage servicing rights amortization, and commercial mortgage servicing rights valuations), and revenue derived from commercial mortgage loans intended for sale and related hedges (including
loan origination fees, net interest income, valuation adjustments and gains or losses on sales).  Common shareholders’ equity to total
assets – Common shareholders’ equity divided by total assets. Common shareholders’ equity equals total shareholders’ equity less the liquidation value of preferred stock. 
Core net interest income – Total net interest income less purchase accounting accretion. 
Credit derivatives – Contractual agreements, primarily credit default swaps, that provide protection against a credit event of one or more
referenced credits. The nature of a credit event is  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    95 


Table of Contents


established by the protection buyer and protection seller at the inception of a transaction, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure to meet payment obligations when due. The
buyer of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a credit event.  Credit spread – The difference in yield between debt issues of similar maturity. The excess of yield attributable to credit spread is often used as a measure of relative creditworthiness, with
a reduction in the credit spread reflecting an improvement in the borrower’s perceived creditworthiness.  Derivatives –
Financial contracts whose value is derived from changes in publicly traded securities, interest rates, currency exchange rates or market indices. Derivatives cover a wide assortment of financial contracts, including but not limited to forward
contracts, futures, options and swaps.  Duration of equity – An estimate of the rate sensitivity of our economic value of equity.
A negative duration of equity is associated with asset sensitivity (i.e., positioned for rising interest rates), while a positive value implies liability sensitivity (i.e., positioned for declining interest rates). For example, if the
duration of equity is +1.5 years, the economic value of equity declines by 1.5% for each 100 basis point increase in interest rates. 
Earning assets – Assets that generate income, which include: Federal funds sold; resale agreements; trading securities; interest-earning
deposits with banks; loans held for sale; loans; investment securities; and certain other assets.  Economic capital – Represents
the amount of resources that a business or business segment should hold to guard against potentially large losses that could cause insolvency and is based on a measurement of economic risk. The economic capital measurement process involves
converting a risk distribution to the capital that is required to support the risk, consistent with our target credit rating. As such, economic risk serves as a “common currency” of risk that allows us to compare different risks on a
similar basis.  Effective duration – A measurement, expressed in years, that, when multiplied by a change in interest rates, would
approximate the percentage change in value of on- and off- balance sheet positions.  Efficiency – Noninterest expense divided by
total revenue.  Fair value – The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  FICO score – A credit bureau-based industry standard score
created by Fair Isaac Co. which predicts the likelihood of borrower default. We use FICO scores both in underwriting and assessing credit risk in our consumer lending portfolio.


Lower FICO scores indicate likely higher risk of default, while higher FICO scores indicate likely lower risk of default. FICO scores are updated on a periodic basis. 
Foreign exchange contracts – Contracts that provide for the future receipt and delivery of foreign currency at previously agreed-upon terms.
 Funds transfer pricing – A management accounting methodology designed to recognize the net interest income effects of sources and
uses of funds provided by the assets and liabilities of a business segment. We assign these balances LIBOR-based funding rates at origination that represent the interest cost for us to raise/invest funds with similar maturity and repricing
structures.  Futures and forward contracts – Contracts in which the buyer agrees to purchase and the seller agrees to deliver a
specific financial instrument at a predetermined price or yield. May be settled either in cash or by delivery of the underlying financial instrument.  GAAP – Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
Home Price Index (HPI) – A broad measure of the movement of single-family house prices in the U.S. 
Interest rate floors and caps – Interest rate protection instruments that involve payment from the protection seller to the protection buyer
of an interest differential, which represents the difference between a short-term rate (e.g., three-month LIBOR) and an agreed-upon rate (the strike rate) applied to a notional principal amount. 
Interest rate swap contracts – Contracts that are entered into primarily as an asset/liability management strategy to reduce interest rate
risk. Interest rate swap contracts are exchanges of interest rate payments, such as fixed-rate payments for floating-rate payments, based on notional principal amounts.  Intrinsic value – The difference between the price, if any, required to be paid for stock issued pursuant to an equity compensation arrangement and the fair market value of the underlying
stock.  Investment securities – Collectively, securities available for sale and securities held to maturity. 
Leverage ratio – Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by adjusted average total assets. 
LIBOR – Acronym for London InterBank Offered Rate. LIBOR is the average interest rate charged when banks in the London wholesale money market
(or interbank market) borrow unsecured funds from each other. LIBOR rates are used as a benchmark for interest rates on a global basis. PNC’s product set includes loans priced using LIBOR as a benchmark. 
Loan-to-value ratio (LTV) – A calculation of a loan’s collateral coverage that is used both in underwriting and assessing credit risk in
our lending portfolio. LTV is the sum total of loan obligations secured by collateral divided by the
 
 
96    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


market value of that same collateral. Market values of the collateral are based on an independent valuation of the collateral. For example, an LTV of less than 90% is better secured and has less
credit risk than an LTV of greater than or equal to 90%.  Loss Given Default (LGD) – An estimate of recovery based on
collateral type, collateral value, loan exposure, or the guarantor(s) quality and guaranty type (full or partial). Each loan has its own LGD. The LGD risk rating measures the percentage of exposure of a specific credit obligation that we expect to
lose if default occurs. LGD is net of recovery, through either liquidation of collateral or deficiency judgments rendered from foreclosure or bankruptcy proceedings.  Net interest margin – Annualized taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets.  Nonaccretable difference – Contractually required payments receivable on a purchased impaired loan in excess of the cash flows expected to be collected. 
Nondiscretionary assets under administration – Assets we hold for our customers/clients in a non-discretionary, custodial capacity. We do not
include these assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Nonperforming assets – Nonperforming assets include non-accrual loans,
certain non-accrual troubled debt restructured loans, OREO, foreclosed and other assets. We do not accrue interest income on assets classified as nonperforming.  Nonperforming loans – Loans for which we do not accrue interest income. Nonperforming loans include loans to commercial, commercial real estate, equipment lease financing, consumer (including
loans and lines of credit secured by residential real estate), and residential real estate (including mortgages and construction) customers as well as certain non-accrual troubled debt restructured loans. Nonperforming loans do not include loans
held for sale or OREO and foreclosed assets. Nonperforming loans do not include purchased impaired loans as we are currently accreting interest income over the expected life of the loans.  Notional amount – A number of currency units, shares, or other units specified in a derivative contract.  Operating leverage – The period to period dollar or percentage change in total revenue (GAAP basis) less the dollar or percentage change in noninterest expense. A positive variance indicates
that revenue growth exceeded expense growth (i.e., positive operating leverage) while a negative variance implies expense growth exceeded revenue growth (i.e., negative operating leverage).

Options – Contracts that grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right, but not the
obligation, to either purchase or sell the associated financial instrument at a set price during a specified period or at a specified date in the future.  Other real estate owned (OREO) and foreclosed assets – Assets taken in settlement of troubled loans through surrender or foreclosure. Foreclosed assets include all assets received in full or
partial satisfaction of a loan and include real and personal property, equity interests in corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, and beneficial interests in trusts. Premises that are no longer used in operations may also be included in other
real estate owned.  Other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) – When the fair value of a security is less than its amortized cost
basis, an assessment is performed to determine whether the impairment is other-than-temporary. If we intend to sell the security or more likely than not will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis less any
current-period credit loss, an other-than-temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. In such cases, an other-than-temporary impairment is recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment’s amortized cost
basis and its fair value at the balance sheet date. Further, if we do not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security, an other-than-temporary impairment is considered to have occurred. However for debt securities, if we do not
intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before its recovery, the other-than-temporary loss is separated into (a) the amount representing the credit loss, and (b) the
amount related to all other factors. The other-than-temporary impairment related to credit losses is recognized in earnings while the amount related to all other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax. 
Parent company liquidity coverage – Liquid assets divided by funding obligations within a two year period. 
Pretax earnings – Income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests. 
Pretax, pre-provision earnings from continuing operations – Total revenue less noninterest expense, both from continuing operations.
 Primary client relationship – A corporate banking client relationship with annual revenue generation of $10,000 to $50,000 or
more, and for Asset Management Group, a client relationship with annual revenue generation of $10,000 or more.  Probability of Default
(PD) – An internal risk rating that indicates the likelihood that a credit obligor will enter into default status.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    97 


Table of Contents

Purchase accounting accretion – Accretion of the discounts and premiums on acquired assets and
liabilities. The purchase accounting accretion is recognized in net interest income over the weighted-average life of the financial instruments using the constant effective yield method. Accretion for Purchased impaired loans includes any cash
recoveries received in excess of the recorded investment.  Purchased impaired loans – Acquired loans determined to be credit
impaired under FASB ASC 310-30 (AICPA SOP 03-3). Loans are determined to be impaired if there is evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected.
 Recorded investment – The initial investment of a purchased impaired loan plus interest accretion and less any cash payments and
writedowns to date. The recorded investment excludes any valuation allowance which is included in our allowance for loan and lease losses. 
Recovery – Cash proceeds received on a loan that we had previously charged off. We credit the amount received to the allowance for loan and
lease losses.  Residential development loans – Project-specific loans to commercial customers for the construction or development
of residential real estate including land, single family homes, condominiums and other residential properties. This would exclude loans to commercial customers where proceeds are for general corporate purposes whether or not such facilities are
secured.  Residential mortgage servicing rights hedge gains/(losses), net – We have elected to measure acquired or originated
residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) at fair value under GAAP. We employ a risk management strategy designed to protect the economic value of MSRs from changes in interest rates. This strategy utilizes securities and a portfolio of
derivative instruments to hedge changes in the fair value of MSRs arising from changes in interest rates. These financial instruments are expected to have changes in fair value which are negatively correlated to the change in fair value of the MSR
portfolio. Net MSR hedge gains/(losses) represent the change in the fair value of MSRs, exclusive of changes due to time decay and payoffs, combined with the change in the fair value of the associated securities and derivative instruments.
 Return on average assets – Annualized net income divided by average assets. 
Return on average capital – Annualized net income divided by average capital.  Return on average common shareholders’ equity – Annualized net income less preferred stock dividends, including preferred stock discount accretion and redemptions, divided by average
common shareholders’ equity. 
Risk-weighted assets – Computed by the assignment of specific risk-weights (as defined by the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) to assets and off-balance sheet instruments.  Securitization – The process of
legally transforming financial assets into securities.  Servicing rights – An intangible asset or liability created by an
obligation to service assets for others. Typical servicing rights include the right to receive a fee for collecting and forwarding payments on loans and related taxes and insurance premiums held in escrow. 
Swaptions – Contracts that grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right, but not the obligation, to enter into an interest rate swap
agreement during a specified period or at a specified date in the future.  Taxable-equivalent interest – The interest income
earned on certain assets is completely or partially exempt from Federal income tax. As such, these tax-exempt instruments typically yield lower returns than taxable investments. To provide more meaningful comparisons of yields and margins for all
interest-earning assets, we use interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis in calculating average yields and net interest margins by increasing the interest income earned on tax-exempt assets to make it fully equivalent to interest income earned
on other taxable investments. This adjustment is not permitted under GAAP on the Consolidated Income Statement.  Tier 1 common capital
– Tier 1 risk-based capital, less preferred equity, less trust preferred capital securities, and less noncontrolling interests.  Tier
1 common capital ratio – Tier 1 common capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets.  Tier 1 risk-based capital –
Total shareholders’ equity, plus trust preferred capital securities, plus certain noncontrolling interests that are held by others; less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (net of eligible deferred taxes relating to taxable and
nontaxable combinations), less equity investments in nonfinancial companies less ineligible servicing assets and less net unrealized holding losses on available for sale equity securities. Net unrealized holding gains on available for sale equity
securities, net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available for sale debt securities and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives are excluded from total shareholders’ equity for Tier 1 risk-based capital
purposes.  Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio – Tier 1 risk-based capital divided by period-end risk-weighted assets. 
Total equity – Total shareholders’ equity plus noncontrolling interests.
 
 
98    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Total return swap – A non-traditional swap where one party agrees to pay the other the
“total return” of a defined underlying asset (e.g., a loan), usually in return for receiving a stream of LIBOR-based cash flows. The total returns of the asset, including interest and any default shortfall, are passed through to the
counterparty. The counterparty is therefore assuming the credit and economic risk of the underlying asset.  Total risk-based capital
– Tier 1 risk-based capital plus qualifying subordinated debt and trust preferred securities, other noncontrolling interest not qualified as Tier 1, eligible gains on available for sale equity securities and the allowance for loan and lease
losses, subject to certain limitations.  Total risk-based capital ratio – Total risk-based capital divided by period-end
risk-weighted assets.  Transaction deposits – The sum of interest-bearing money market deposits, interest-bearing demand deposits,
and noninterest-bearing deposits.  Troubled debt restructuring (TDR) – A loan whose terms have been restructured in a manner that
grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties.  Value-at-risk (VaR) – A statistically-based measure of
risk that describes the amount of potential loss which may be incurred due to severe and adverse market movements. The measure is of the maximum loss which should not be exceeded on 95 out of 100 days for a 95% VaR and 99 out of 100 days for a 99%
VaR.  Watchlist – A list of criticized loans, credit exposure or other assets compiled for internal monitoring purposes. We define
criticized exposure for this purpose as exposure with an internal risk rating of other assets especially mentioned, substandard, doubtful or loss.  Yield curve – A graph showing the relationship between the yields on financial instruments or market indices of the same credit quality with different maturities. For example, a
“normal” or “positive” yield curve exists when long-term bonds have higher yields than short-term bonds. A “flat” yield curve exists when yields are the same for short-term and long-term bonds. A “steep” yield
curve exists when yields on long-term bonds are significantly higher than on short-term bonds. An “inverted” or “negative” yield curve exists when short-term bonds have higher yields than long-term bonds.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  We make statements in this Report, and may from time to time
make other statements, regarding our outlook for earnings, revenues, expenses, capital levels and ratios, liquidity levels, asset levels, asset quality and other matters regarding or affecting PNC and its future business and operations that are
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe,” “plan,” “expect,” “anticipate,”
“see,” “look,” “intend,” “outlook,” “project,” “forecast,” “estimate,” “goal,” “will,” “should” and other similar words and expressions.
Forward-looking statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties, which change over time.  Forward-looking statements
speak only as of the date made. We do not assume any duty and do not undertake to update forward-looking statements. Actual results or future events could differ, possibly materially, from those anticipated in forward-looking statements, as well as
from historical performance.  Our forward-looking statements are subject to the following principal risks and uncertainties. 
 


•
 
 Our businesses, financial results and balance sheet values are affected by business and economic conditions, including the following:



 
–
 
 Changes in interest rates and valuations in debt, equity and other financial markets. 


 
–
 
 Disruptions in the liquidity and other functioning of U.S. and global financial markets. 


 
–
 
 The impact on financial markets and the economy of the downgrade by Standard & Poor’s of U.S. Treasury obligations and other U.S.
government-backed debt, as well as issues surrounding the level of U.S. and European government debt and concerns regarding the creditworthiness of certain sovereign governments in Europe. 


 
–
 
 Actions by Federal Reserve, U.S. Treasury and other government agencies, including those that impact money supply and market interest rates.



 
–
 
 Changes in customers’, suppliers’ and other counterparties’ performance and creditworthiness. 


 
–
 
 Slowing or failure of the current moderate economic recovery. 


 
–
 
 Continued effects of aftermath of recessionary conditions and uneven spread of positive impacts of recovery on the economy and our counterparties,
including adverse impacts on levels of unemployment, loan utilization rates, delinquencies, defaults and counterparty ability to meet credit and other obligations.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    99 


Table of Contents



 
–
 
 Changes in customer preferences and behavior, whether due to changing business and economic conditions, legislative and regulatory initiatives, or
other factors. 


•
 
 Our forward-looking financial statements are subject to the risk that economic and financial market conditions will be substantially different than we
are currently expecting. These statements are based on our current view that the modest economic expansion will persist in 2012 and interest rates will remain very low. 


•
 
 Legal and regulatory developments could have an impact on our ability to operate our businesses, financial condition, results of operations,
competitive position, reputation, or pursuit of attractive acquisition opportunities. Reputational impacts could affect matters such as business generation and retention, liquidity, funding, and ability to attract and retain management. These
developments could include: 


 
–
 
 Changes resulting from legislative and regulatory reforms, including broad-based restructuring of financial industry regulation and changes to laws and
regulations involving tax, pension, bankruptcy, consumer protection, and other industry aspects, and changes in accounting policies and principles. We will be impacted by extensive reforms provided for in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act and otherwise growing out of the recent financial crisis, the precise nature, extent and timing of which, and their impact on us, remains uncertain. 


 
–
 
 Changes to regulations governing bank capital and liquidity standards, including due to the Dodd-Frank Act and to Basel III initiatives.



 
–
 
 Unfavorable resolution of legal proceedings or other claims and regulatory and other governmental investigations or other inquiries. In addition to
matters relating to PNC’s business and activities, such matters may include proceedings, claims, investigations, or inquiries relating to pre-acquisition business and activities of acquired companies, such as National City. These matters may
result in monetary judgments or settlements or other remedies, including fines, penalties, restitution or alterations in our business practices, and in additional expenses and collateral costs, and may cause reputational harm to PNC.



 
–
 
 Results of the regulatory examination and supervision process, including our failure to satisfy requirements of agreements with governmental agencies.



 
–
 
 Impact on business and operating results of any costs associated with obtaining rights in intellectual property claimed by others and of adequacy of
our intellectual property protection in general. 


 
•
 
 Business and operating results are affected by our ability to identify and effectively manage risks inherent in our businesses, including, where
appropriate, through



 
 
 
effective use of third-party insurance, derivatives, and capital management techniques, and to meet evolving regulatory capital standards. In particular, our results currently depend on our
ability to manage elevated levels of impaired assets. 


 
•
 
 Business and operating results also include impacts relating to our equity interest in BlackRock, Inc. and rely to a significant extent on information
provided to us by BlackRock. Risks and uncertainties that could affect BlackRock are discussed in more detail by BlackRock in its SEC filings. 


 
•
 
 Our planned acquisition of RBC Bank (USA) presents us with risks and uncertainties related both to the acquisition transaction itself and its
integration into PNC after closing, including: 


 
–
 
 The transaction (including integration of RBC Bank (USA)’s businesses) may be substantially more expensive to complete than anticipated.
Anticipated benefits, including cost savings and strategic gains, may be significantly harder or take longer to achieve than expected or may not be achieved in their entirety as a result of unexpected factors or events. 


 
–
 
 Our ability to achieve anticipated results from this transaction is dependent also on the extent of credit losses in the acquired loan portfolios and
the extent of deposit attrition, in part related to the state of economic and financial markets. Also, litigation and governmental investigations that may be filed or commenced, as a result of this transaction or otherwise, could impact the timing
or realization of anticipated benefits to PNC. 


 
–
 
 Integration of RBC Bank (USA)’s business and operations into PNC, which will include conversion of RBC Bank (USA)’s different systems and
procedures, may take longer than anticipated or be more costly than anticipated or have unanticipated adverse results relating to RBC Bank (USA)’s or PNC’s existing businesses. PNC’s ability to integrate RBC Bank (USA) successfully
may be adversely affected by the facts that this transaction will result in PNC entering several markets where PNC does not currently have any meaningful retail presence and that the conversion is taking place simultaneously with the acquisition.



•
 
 In addition to the planned RBC Bank (USA) transaction, we grow our business in part by acquiring from time to time other financial services companies,
financial services assets and related deposits and other liabilities. These other acquisitions often present risks and uncertainties analogous to those presented by the RBC Bank (USA) transaction. Acquisition risks include those presented by the
nature of the business acquired as well as risks and uncertainties related to the acquisition transactions themselves, regulatory issues, and the integration of the acquired businesses into PNC after closing. 


•
 
 Competition can have an impact on customer acquisition, growth and retention and on credit spreads and product
 
 
100    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
pricing, which can affect market share, deposits and revenues. Industry restructuring in the current environment could also impact our business and financial performance through changes in
counterparty creditworthiness and performance and in the competitive and regulatory landscape. Our ability to anticipate and respond to technological changes can also impact our ability to respond to customer needs and meet competitive demands.



•
 
 Business and operating results can also be affected by widespread disasters, dislocations, terrorist activities or international hostilities through
impacts on the economy and financial markets generally or on us or our counterparties specifically.  We provide greater
detail regarding some of these factors elsewhere in this Report, including in the Risk Factors and Risk Management sections. Our forward-looking statements may also be subject to other risks and uncertainties, including those discussed elsewhere in
this Report or in our other filings with the SEC.  ITEM 7A –
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  This information is set forth in the Risk Management section of Item 
7 of this Report.  ITEM 8 – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated
statements of income, changes in equity, and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on


Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
  




 /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP



 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
February 29, 2012
  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    101 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31
 

In millions, except per share data
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Interest Income
  



 



 




 Loans
  
$
7,595
 
 
$
  8,276
 
 
$
  8,919
 

 Investment securities
  
 
2,161
  
 
 
2,389
  
 
 
2,688
  

 Other
  
 
438
 
 
 
485
 
 
 
479
 

 Total interest income
  
 
10,194
  
 
 
11,150
  
 
 
12,086
  

 Interest Expense
  



 



 




 Deposits
  
 
668
  
 
 
963
  
 
 
1,741
  

 Borrowed funds
  
 
826
 
 
 
957
 
 
 
1,262
 

 Total interest expense
  
 
1,494
  
 
 
1,920
  
 
 
3,003
  

 Net interest income
  
 
8,700
 
 
 
9,230
 
 
 
9,083
 

 Noninterest Income
  



 



 




 Asset management
  
 
1,088
 
 
 
1,054
 
 
 
858
 

 Consumer services
  
 
1,243
  
 
 
1,261
  
 
 
1,290
  

 Corporate services
  
 
898
 
 
 
1,082
 
 
 
1,021
 

 Residential mortgage
  
 
713
  
 
 
699
  
 
 
990
  

 Service charges on deposits
  
 
534
 
 
 
705
 
 
 
950
 

 Net gains on sales of securities
  
 
249
  
 
 
426
  
 
 
550
  

 Other-than-temporary impairments
  
 
(420
) 
 
 
(608
) 
 
 
(1,935
) 

 Less: Noncredit portion of other-than-temporary impairments (a)
  
 
(268
) 
 
 
(283
) 
 
 
(1,358
) 

 Net other-than-temporary impairments
  
 
(152
) 
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
(577
) 

 Gains on BlackRock transactions
  



 
 
160
  
 
 
1,076
  

 Other
  
 
1,053
 
 
 
884
 
 
 
987
 

 Total noninterest income
  
 
5,626
  
 
 
5,946
  
 
 
7,145
  

 Total revenue
  
 
14,326
 
 
 
15,176
 
 
 
16,228
 

 Provision For Credit Losses
  
 
1,152
  
 
 
2,502
  
 
 
3,930
  

 Noninterest Expense
  



 



 




 Personnel
  
 
3,966
  
 
 
3,906
  
 
 
4,119
  

 Occupancy
  
 
738
 
 
 
730
 
 
 
713
 

 Equipment
  
 
661
  
 
 
668
  
 
 
695
  

 Marketing
  
 
249
 
 
 
266
 
 
 
233
 

 Other
  
 
3,491
  
 
 
3,043
  
 
 
3,313
  

 Total noninterest expense
  
 
9,105
 
 
 
8,613
 
 
 
9,073
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests
  
 
4,069
  
 
 
4,061
  
 
 
3,225
  

 Income taxes
  
 
998
 
 
 
1,037
 
 
 
867
 

 Income from continuing operations before noncontrolling interests
  
 
3,071
  
 
 
3,024
  
 
 
2,358
  

 Income from discontinued operations (net of income taxes of zero, $338, and
$54)
  
 
 
 
 
 
373
 
 
 
45
 

 Net income
  
 
3,071
  
 
 
3,397
  
 
 
2,403
  

 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
15
 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(44
) 

          Preferred stock dividends
  
 
56
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
388
  

          Preferred stock discount accretion
and redemptions
  
 
2
 
 
 
255
 
 
 
56
 

 Net income attributable to common shareholders
  
$
2,998
  
 
$
3,011
  
 
$
2,003
  

 Earnings Per Common Share
  



 



 




 From continuing operations
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
5.70
 
 
$
5.08
 
 
$
4.30
 

 Diluted
  
$
5.64
  
 
$
5.02
  
 
$
4.26
  

 From net income
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
5.70
  
 
$
5.80
  
 
$
4.40
  

 Diluted
  
$
5.64
 
 
$
5.74
 
 
$
4.36
 

 Average Common Shares Outstanding
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
524
 
 
 
517
 
 
 
454
 

 Diluted
  
 
526
  
 
 
520
  
 
 
455
  
  


(a)
Included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 
See accompanying Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
102    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.   












In millions, except par value
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Assets
  



 




 Cash and due from banks (includes $7 and $2 for VIEs) (a)
  
$
4,105
 
 
$
3,297
 

 Federal funds sold and resale agreements (includes $732 and $866 measured at fair value) (b)
  
 
2,205
 
 
 
3,704
 

 Trading securities
  
 
2,513
 
 
 
1,826
 

 Interest-earning deposits with banks (includes $325 and $288 for VIEs) (a)
  
 
1,169
 
 
 
1,610
 

 Loans held for sale (includes $2,365 and $2,755 measured at fair value) (b)
  
 
2,936
 
 
 
3,492
 

 Investment securities (includes $109 and $192 for VIEs) (a)
  
 
60,634
 
 
 
64,262
 

 Loans (includes $6,096 and $4,645 for VIEs) (includes $227 and $116 measured at fair value) (a) (b)
  
 
159,014
 
 
 
150,595
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses (includes $(91) and $(183) for VIEs)
(a)
  
 
(4,347
) 
 
 
(4,887
) 

 Net loans
  
 
154,667
 
 
 
145,708
 

 Goodwill
  
 
8,285
 
 
 
8,149
 

 Other intangible assets
  
 
1,859
 
 
 
2,604
 

 Equity investments (includes $1,643 and $1,177 for VIEs) (a)
  
 
10,134
 
 
 
9,220
 

 Other (includes $1,205 and $676 for VIEs) (includes $210 and $396 measured at fair
value) (a) (b)
  
 
22,698
 
 
 
20,412
 

 Total assets
  
$
271,205
 
 
$
264,284
 

 Liabilities
  



 




 Deposits
  



 




 Noninterest-bearing
  
$
59,048
 
 
$
50,019
 

 Interest-bearing
  
 
128,918
 
 
 
133,371
 

 Total deposits
  
 
187,966
 
 
 
183,390
 

 Borrowed funds
  



 




 Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements
  
 
2,984
 
 
 
4,144
 

 Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings
  
 
6,967
 
 
 
6,043
 

 Bank notes and senior debt
  
 
11,793
 
 
 
12,904
 

 Subordinated debt
  
 
8,321
 
 
 
9,842
 

 Other (includes $4,777 and $3,354 for VIEs) (a)
  
 
6,639
 
 
 
6,555
 

 Total borrowed funds
  
 
36,704
 
 
 
39,488
 

 Allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit
  
 
240
 
 
 
188
 

 Accrued expenses (includes $155 and $88 for VIEs) (a)
  
 
4,175
 
 
 
3,188
 

 Other (includes $734 and $456 for VIEs) (a)
  
 
4,874
 
 
 
5,192
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
233,959
 
 
 
231,446
 

 Equity
  



 




 Preferred stock (c)
  



 




 Common stock ($5 par value, authorized 800 shares, issued 537 and 536 shares)
  
 
2,683
 
 
 
2,682
 

 Capital surplus – preferred stock
  
 
1,637
 
 
 
647
 

 Capital surplus – common stock and other
  
 
12,072
 
 
 
12,057
 

 Retained earnings
  
 
18,253
 
 
 
15,859
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(105
) 
 
 
(431
) 

 Common stock held in treasury at cost: 10 shares
  
 
(487
) 
 
 
(572
) 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
34,053
 
 
 
30,242
 

 Noncontrolling interests
  
 
3,193
 
 
 
2,596
 

 Total equity
  
 
37,246
 
 
 
32,838
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
271,205
 
 
$
264,284
 
  


(a)
Amounts represent the assets or liabilities of consolidated variable interest entities (VIEs). 


(b)
Amounts represent items for which the Corporation has elected the fair value option. 


(c)
Par value less than $.5 million at each date. 
See accompanying Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    103 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.   








































  
 
  
 
 
Shareholders’ Equity
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

In millions
 
SharesOutstandingCommonStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
CapitalSurplus -PreferredStock
 
 
CapitalSurplus -CommonStock andOther
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
NoncontrollingInterests
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008 (a)
 
 
443
 
 
$
2,261
 
 
$
7,918
 
 
$
8,328
 
 
$
11,461
 
 
$
(3,949
) 
 
$
(597
) 
 
$
2,226
 
 
$
27,648
 

 Cumulative effect of adopting FASB ASC 320-10 (b)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
110
 
 
 
(110
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
 
 
443
 
 
$
2,261
 
 
$
7,918
 
 
$
8,328
 
 
$
11,571
 
 
$
(4,059
) 
 
$
(597
) 
 
$
2,226
 
 
$
27,648
 

 Net income (loss)
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
2,447
 
 



 


 
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
2,403
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 


 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 
 



 




 Net unrealized losses on other-than-temporary impaired debt securities
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
(706
) 
 


 
 



 
 
(706
) 

 Net unrealized securities gains
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
2,866
 
 


 
 



 
 
2,866
 

 Net unrealized losses on cash flow hedge derivatives
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
(208
) 
 


 
 



 
 
(208
) 

 Pension, other postretirement and postemployment benefit plan adjustments
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
125
 
 


 
 



 
 
125
 

 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(44
) 
 
 
4,500
 

 Cash dividends declared
 


 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 
 



 




 Common
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
(430
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(430
) 

 Preferred
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
(388
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(388
) 

 Preferred stock discount accretion
 


 
 



 
 
56
 
 



 
 
(56
) 
 



 


 
 



 




 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program issuance
 
 
15
 
 
 
75
 
 



 
 
549
 
 



 



 


 
 



 
 
624
 

 Common stock activity
 
 
4
 
 
 
18
 
 



 
 
147
 
 



 



 


 
 



 
 
165
 

 Treasury stock activity (c)
 


 
 



 



 
 
(158
) 
 



 



 
 
84
 
 



 
 
(74
) 

 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
443
 
 
 
522
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009 (a)
 
 
462
 
 
$
2,354
 
 
$
7,974
 
 
$
8,945
 
 
$
13,144
 
 
$
(1,962
) 
 
$
(513
) 
 
$
2,625
 
 
$
32,567
 

 Cumulative effect of adopting ASU 2009-17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(92
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(105
) 

 Balance at January 1, 2010
 
 
462
 
 
$
2,354
 
 
$
7,974
 
 
$
8,945
 
 
$
13,052
 
 
$
(1,975
) 
 
$
(513
) 
 
$
2,625
 
 
$
32,462
 

 Net income
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
3,412
 
 



 


 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
3,397
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 


 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 
 



 




 Net unrealized gains on other-than-temporary impaired debt securities
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
170
 
 


 
 



 
 
170
 

 Net unrealized securities gains
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
868
 
 


 
 



 
 
868
 

 Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
356
 
 


 
 



 
 
356
 

 Pension, other postretirement and postemployment benefit plan adjustments
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
162
 
 


 
 



 
 
162
 

 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(12
) 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
4,941
 

 Cash dividends declared
 


 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 
 



 




 Common
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
(204
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(204
) 

 Preferred
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
(146
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(146
) 

 Redemption of preferred stock and noncontrolling interest Series N (TARP)
 


 
 



 
 
(7,579
) 
 



 



 



 


 
 



 
 
(7,579
) 

 Preferred stock discount accretion
 


 
 



 
 
252
 
 



 
 
(252
) 
 



 


 
 



 




 Other
 


 
 



 



 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(4
) 

 Common stock activity (d)
 
 
65
 
 
 
328
 
 



 
 
3,113
 
 



 



 


 
 



 
 
3,441
 

 Treasury stock activity
 
 
(1
) 
 



 



 
 
(62
) 
 



 



 
 
(59
) 
 



 
 
(121
) 

 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
62
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
48
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010 (a)
 
 
526
 
 
$
2,682
 
 
$
647
 
 
$
12,057
 
 
$
15,859
 
 
$
(431
) 
 
$
(572
) 
 
$
2,596
 
 
$
32,838
 
 
104    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 
(continued on following page) 


Table of Contents








































  
 
  
 
 
Shareholders’ Equity
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

In millions
 
SharesOutstandingCommonStock
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
CapitalSurplus -PreferredStock
 
 
CapitalSurplus -CommonStock andOther
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
NoncontrollingInterests
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010 (a)
 
 
526
 
 
$
2,682
 
 
$
647
 
 
$
12,057
 
 
$
15,859
 
 
$
(431
) 
 
$
(572
) 
 
$
2,596
 
 
$
32,838
 

 Net income
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
3,056
 
 



 


 
 
 
15
 
 
 
3,071
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
 


 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 
 



 




 Net unrealized losses on other-than-temporary impaired debt securities
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
(92
) 
 


 
 



 
 
(92
) 

 Net unrealized securities gains
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
601
 
 


 
 



 
 
601
 

 Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
195
 
 


 
 



 
 
195
 

 Pension, other postretirement and postemployment benefit plan adjustments
 


 
 



 



 



 



 
 
(375
) 
 


 
 



 
 
(375
) 

 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3
) 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
3,397
 

 Cash dividends declared
 


 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 
 



 




 Common
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
(604
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(604
) 

 Preferred
 


 
 



 



 



 
 
(56
) 
 



 


 
 



 
 
(56
) 

 Preferred stock discount accretion
 


 
 



 
 
2
 
 



 
 
(2
) 
 



 


 
 



 




 Common stock activity
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 
 



 
 
10
 
 



 



 


 
 



 
 
11
 

 Treasury stock activity
 


 
 



 



 
 
(36
) 
 



 



 
 
85
 
 



 
 
49
 

 Preferred stock issuance – Series O (e)
 


 
 



 
 
988
 
 



 



 



 


 
 



 
 
988
 

 Other
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
582
 
 
 
623
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011 (a)
 
 
527
 
 
$
2,683
 
 
$
1,637
 
 
$
12,072
 
 
$
18,253
 
 
$
(105
) 
 
$
(487
) 
 
$
3,193
 
 
$
37,246
 
  


(a)
The par value of our preferred stock outstanding was less than $.5 million at each date and, therefore, is excluded from this presentation. 


(b)
Retained earnings at January 1, 2009 was increased $110 million representing the after-tax noncredit portion of other-than-temporary impairment losses recognized
in net income during 2008 that has been reclassified to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 


(c)
Net treasury stock activity totaled less than .5 million shares issued. 


(d)
Includes 63.9 million common shares issuance, the net proceeds of which were used together with other available funds to redeem the Series N (TARP) Preferred
Stock, for a $3.4 billion net increase in total equity. 


(e)
10,000 Series O preferred shares with a $1 par value were issued on July 20, 2011. 
See accompanying Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    105 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
(continued from previous page) 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.   
















 
  
Year ended December 31
 

In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating Activities
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
3,071
 
 
$
3,397
 
 
$
2,403
 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided (used) by operating activities
  



 



 




 Provision for credit losses
  
 
1,152
 
 
 
2,502
 
 
 
3,930
 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
1,140
 
 
 
1,059
 
 
 
978
 

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
840
 
 
 
1,019
 
 
 
932
 

 Net gains on sales of securities
  
 
(249
) 
 
 
(426
) 
 
 
(550
) 

 Net other-than-temporary impairments
  
 
152
 
 
 
325
 
 
 
577
 

 Mortgage servicing rights valuation adjustment
  
 
726
 
 
 
434
 
 
 
(149
) 

 Gain on sale of PNC Global Investment Servicing
  



 
 
(639
) 
 




 Gains on BlackRock transactions
  



 
 
(160
) 
 
 
(1,076
) 

 Net gains related to BlackRock LTIP shares adjustments
  



 



 
 
(103
) 

 Noncash charge on trust preferred securities redemption
  
 
198
 
 



 




 Undistributed earnings of BlackRock
  
 
(262
) 
 
 
(291
) 
 
 
(144
) 

 Net change in
  



 



 




 Trading securities and other short-term investments
  
 
330
 
 
 
468
 
 
 
61
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
77
 
 
 
(1,154
) 
 
 
1,110
 

 Other assets
  
 
(4,142
) 
 
 
753
 
 
 
5,485
 

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
3,330
 
 
 
(1,571
) 
 
 
(8,118
) 

 Other
  
 
(328
) 
 
 
(904
) 
 
 
418
 

 Net cash provided (used) by operating activities
  
 
6,035
 
 
 
4,812
 
 
 
5,754
 

 Investing Activities
  



 



 




 Sales
  



 



 




 Securities available for sale
  
 
20,533
 
 
 
23,343
 
 
 
18,861
 

 BlackRock stock via secondary common stock offering
  



 
 
1,198
 
 




 Loans
  
 
1,770
 
 
 
1,868
 
 
 
644
 

 Repayments/maturities
  



 



 




 Securities available for sale
  
 
6,074
 
 
 
7,730
 
 
 
7,291
 

 Securities held to maturity
  
 
2,859
 
 
 
2,433
 
 
 
495
 

 Purchases
  



 



 




 Securities available for sale
  
 
(25,551
) 
 
 
(36,653
) 
 
 
(34,078
) 

 Securities held to maturity
  
 
(1,607
) 
 
 
(1,296
) 
 
 
(2,367
) 

 Loans
  
 
(2,401
) 
 
 
(4,275
) 
 
 
(970
) 

 Net change in
  



 



 




 Federal funds sold and resale agreements
  
 
1,487
 
 
 
(1,313
) 
 
 
(560
) 

 Interest-earning deposits with banks
  
 
441
 
 
 
2,684
 
 
 
10,237
 

 Loans
  
 
(10,224
) 
 
 
7,855
 
 
 
13,863
 

 Net cash received from (paid for) acquisition and divestiture activity
  
 
430
 
 
 
2,202
 
 
 
(3,396
) 

 Purchases of corporate and bank owned life insurance
  
 
(200
) 
 
 
(800
) 
 




 Other (a)
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
753
 
 
 
(541
) 

 Net cash provided (used) by investing activities
  
 
(6,549
) 
 
 
5,729
 
 
 
9,479
 
 
106    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 
(continued on following page) 


Table of Contents
















 
  
Year ended December 31
 

In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Financing Activities
  



 



 




 Net change in
  



 



 




 Noninterest-bearing deposits
  
$
8,909
 
 
$
5,872
 
 
$
7,169
 

 Interest-bearing deposits
  
 
(4,863
) 
 
 
(8,844
) 
 
 
(9,849
) 

 Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements
  
 
(1,151
) 
 
 
152
 
 
 
(1,173
) 

 Federal Home Loan borrowings
  
 
1,000
 
 
 
(280
) 
 
 
280
 

 Other borrowed funds
  
 
(562
) 
 
 
380
 
 
 
(1,726
) 

 Sales/issuances
  



 



 




 Federal Home Loan borrowings
  
 
1,000
 
 



 
 
2,092
 

 Bank notes and senior debt
  
 
1,244
 
 
 
3,230
 
 
 
2,461
 

 Other borrowed funds
  
 
10,025
 
 
 
4,820
 
 
 
234
 

 Preferred stock
  
 
988
 
 



 




 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program – common stock
  



 



 
 
624
 

 Common and treasury stock
  
 
72
 
 
 
3,486
 
 
 
247
 

 Repayments/maturities
  



 



 




 Federal Home Loan borrowings
  
 
(1,076
) 
 
 
(4,373
) 
 
 
(9,671
) 

 Bank notes and senior debt
  
 
(2,612
) 
 
 
(2,808
) 
 
 
(3,887
) 

 Subordinated debt
  
 
(1,942
) 
 
 
(257
) 
 
 
(1,000
) 

 Other borrowed funds
  
 
(8,977
) 
 
 
(4,677
) 
 
 
(211
) 

 Preferred stock – TARP
  



 
 
(7,579
) 
 




 Redemption of noncontrolling interest and other preferred stock
  



 
 
(100
) 
 




 Acquisition of treasury stock
  
 
(73
) 
 
 
(204
) 
 
 
(188
) 

 Preferred stock cash dividends paid
  
 
(56
) 
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
(388
) 

 Common stock cash dividends paid
  
 
(604
) 
 
 
(204
) 
 
 
(430
) 

 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
  
 
1,322
 
 
 
(11,532
) 
 
 
(15,416
) 

 Net Increase (Decrease) In Cash And Due From Banks
  
 
808
 
 
 
(991
) 
 
 
(183
) 

 Cash and due from banks at beginning of period
  
 
3,297
 
 
 
4,288
 
 
 
4,471
 

 Cash and due from banks at end of period
  
$
4,105
 
 
$
3,297
 
 
$
4,288
 

 Supplemental Disclosures
  



 



 




 Interest paid
  
$
1,517
 
 
$
1,871
 
 
$
3,151
 

 Income taxes paid
  
 
842
 
 
 
752
 
 
 
66
 

 Income taxes refunded
  
 
41
 
 
 
54
 
 
 
718
 

 Non-cash Investing and Financing Items
  



 



 




 Transfer from (to) loans to (from) loans held for sale, net
  
 
926
 
 
 
890
 
 
 
(172
) 

 Transfer from loans to foreclosed assets
  
 
822
 
 
 
1,218
 
 
 
1,012
 



(a)
Includes the impact of the consolidation of variable interest entities as of January 1, 2010. 
See accompanying Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    107 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC.  (continued from previous page) 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
 

BUSINESS  PNC is one of the largest diversified financial services companies in the United States and is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  PNC has businesses engaged in retail banking, corporate and institutional banking, asset management, and residential mortgage banking, providing many of its products and services nationally and others in
PNC’s primary geographic markets located in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Missouri, Wisconsin and Georgia. PNC also provides certain products and
services internationally. 
NOTE 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
BASIS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION
 Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its subsidiaries, most of which are wholly owned,
and certain partnership interests and variable interest entities.  We prepared these consolidated financial statements in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). We have eliminated intercompany accounts and transactions. We have also reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to the 2011 presentation. These
reclassifications did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations.  See Note 2 Acquisition and
Divestiture Activity regarding our July 1, 2010 sale of PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. The Consolidated Income Statement for all periods presented and related Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements reflect the global investment
servicing business as discontinued operations.  We have considered the impact on these consolidated financial statements of subsequent events.
 USE OF ESTIMATES  We prepared these consolidated financial statements using financial information available at the time, which requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported. Our most
significant estimates pertain to our fair value measurements, allowances for loan and lease losses and unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit, and accretion on purchased impaired loans. Actual results may differ from the estimates and the
differences may be material to the consolidated financial statements.

INVESTMENT IN BLACKROCK,
INC.  We account for our investment in the common stock and Series B Preferred Stock of BlackRock (deemed to be
in-substance common stock) under the equity method of accounting. The investment in BlackRock is reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in Equity investments, while our equity in earnings of BlackRock is reported on our Consolidated Income
Statement in Asset management revenue.  We also own approximately 1.5 million shares of Series C Preferred Stock of BlackRock after
delivery of approximately 1.3 million shares in September 2011 pursuant to our obligation to partially fund a portion of certain BlackRock long-term incentive plan (LTIP) programs. Since these preferred shares are not deemed to be in substance
common stock, we have elected to account for these preferred shares at fair value and the changes in fair value will offset the impact of marking-to-market the obligation to deliver these shares to BlackRock. Our investment in the BlackRock Series C
Preferred Stock is included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in Other assets.  As noted above, we mark-to-market our obligation to transfer
BlackRock shares related to certain BlackRock LTIP programs. This obligation is classified as a derivative not designated as a hedging instrument under GAAP as disclosed in Note 16 Financial Derivatives. 
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS  We record the net assets of companies that we acquire at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition and we include the results of operations of the acquired companies on our Consolidated Income
Statement from the date of acquisition. We recognize, as goodwill, the excess of the acquisition price over the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired.  SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES  Special
purpose entities (SPEs) are defined as legal entities structured for a particular purpose. We use special purpose entities in various legal forms to conduct normal business activities. We review the structure and activities of special purpose
entities for possible consolidation under the applicable GAAP guidance.  
 
108    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

A variable interest entity (VIE) is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or any other
legal structure used to conduct activities or hold assets that either: 


 
•
 
 Does not have equity investors with voting rights that can directly or indirectly make decisions about the entity’s activities through those
voting rights or similar rights, or 


 
•
 
 Has equity investors that do not provide sufficient equity for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support.
 A VIE often holds financial assets, including loans or receivables, real estate or other property. 
VIEs are assessed for consolidation under ASC 810 – Consolidations when we hold variable interest in these entities. We consolidate a VIE if we are
its primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is determined to be the party that meets both of the following criteria: (1) has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic performance of the VIE and
(2) has the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE. Upon consolidation of a VIE, we recognize all of the VIE’s assets, liabilities and noncontrolling
interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 3 Loan Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities for information about VIEs that we do not consolidate but in which we hold a significant variable interest. 
On January 1, 2010, we adopted Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2009-17 – Consolidations (Topic 810) – Improvements to Financial Reporting
by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities. This guidance replaces previous guidance requiring an enterprise to perform a qualitative analysis as opposed to a quantitative analysis to determine if it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE.
The qualitative analysis considers the purpose and the design of the VIE as well as the risks that the VIE was designed to either create or pass through to variable interest holders. This guidance also removed the scope exception for qualifying
special-purpose entities, contained new criteria for determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE and increased the frequency of required reassessments to determine whether an entity is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. As a result of the adoption
of ASU 2009-17, we consolidated Market Street Funding LLC (Market Street), a credit card securitization trust, and certain Low Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) investments.  REVENUE RECOGNITION  We earn interest and noninterest
income from various sources, including: 


 
•
 
 Lending, 


 
•
 
 Securities portfolio, 


 
•
 
 Asset management, 


 
•
 
 Customer deposits, 


 
•
 
 Loan sales and servicing,



 
•
 
 Brokerage services, 


 
•
 
 Sale of loans and securities, 


 
•
 
 Certain private equity activities, and 


 
•
 
 Securities and derivatives trading activities including foreign exchange.  We also earn revenue from selling loans and securities and we recognize income or loss from certain private equity activities.  We earn fees and commissions from: 


 
•
 
 Issuing loan commitments, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, 


 
•
 
 Selling various insurance products, 


 
•
 
 Providing treasury management services, 


 
•
 
 Providing merger and acquisition advisory and related services, and 


 
•
 
 Participating in certain capital markets transactions.  Revenue earned on interest-earning assets including unearned income and the amortization/accretion of premiums or discounts recognized on acquired loans is recognized based on the constant effective yield
of the financial instrument.  Asset management fees are generally based on a percentage of the fair value of the assets under management. This
caption also includes any performance fees which are generally based on a percentage of the returns on such assets and are recorded as earned. The caption Asset Management also includes our share of the earnings of BlackRock recognized under the
equity method of accounting.  Service charges on deposit accounts are recognized when earned. Brokerage fees and gains and losses on the sale
of securities and certain derivatives are recognized on a trade-date basis.  We record private equity income or loss based on changes in the
valuation of the underlying investments or when we dispose of our interest.  We recognize gain/(loss) on changes in the fair value of certain
financial instruments where we have elected the fair value option. These financial instruments include certain commercial and residential mortgage loans originated for sale, certain residential mortgage portfolio loans, resale agreements and our
investment in BlackRock Series C preferred stock. We also recognize gain/(loss) on changes in the fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), which are measured at fair value.  We recognize revenue from servicing residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and other consumer loans as earned based on the specific contractual terms. These revenues, as well as impairment on
servicing rights, are reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in the line items Residential mortgage, Corporate services, and Consumer service We recognize revenue from securities, derivatives and foreign
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    109 


Table of Contents


exchange trading, as well as securities underwriting activities, as these transactions occur or as services are provided. We recognize gains from the sale of loans upon receipt of cash.
 When appropriate, revenue is reported net of associated expenses in accordance with GAAP. 
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 
Cash and due from banks are considered “cash and cash equivalents” for financial reporting purposes. 
INVESTMENTS  We
hold interests in various types of investments. The accounting for these investments is dependent on a number of factors including, but not limited to, items such as: 


 
•
 
 Ownership interest, 


 
•
 
 Our plans for the investment, and 


 
•
 
 The nature of the investment.  Debt Securities  Debt securities are recorded on a trade-date basis. We classify
debt securities as held to maturity and carry them at amortized cost if we have the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Debt securities that we purchase for short-term appreciation, trading purposes or those with
non-bifurcated embedded derivatives are carried at fair value and classified as trading securities and other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading securities are included in Other noninterest
income.  Debt securities not classified as held to maturity or trading are designated as securities available for sale and carried at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses, net of income taxes, reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  On January 1,
2009, we adopted new guidance impacting the recognition and disclosure of other-than-temporary impairments (OTTI). On at least a quarterly basis, we review all debt securities that are in an unrealized loss position for OTTI. An investment security
is deemed impaired if the fair value of the investment is less than its amortized cost. Amortized cost includes adjustments (if any) made to the cost basis of an investment for accretion, amortization, previous other-than-temporary impairments and
hedging gains and losses. After an investment security is determined to be impaired, we evaluate whether the decline in value is other-than-temporary. As part of this evaluation, we take into consideration whether we intend to sell the security or
whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before expected recovery of its amortized cost. We also consider whether or not we expect to receive all of the contractual cash flows from the investment based on
factors that include, but are not limited to: the creditworthiness of the issuer and, in the case of securities collateralized by consumer and commercial loan assets, the historical and projected performance of the underlying collateral. In
addition, we may


also evaluate the business and financial outlook of the issuer, as well as broader industry and sector performance indicators. Declines in the fair value of available for sale debt securities
that are deemed other-than-temporary and are attributable to credit deterioration are recognized on our Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which the determination is made. Declines in fair value which are deemed other-than-temporary and
attributable to factors other than credit deterioration are recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  We include all interest on debt securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on investment securities in net interest income using the constant effective yield method.
Effective yields reflect either the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition or the effective interest rate determined based on significantly improved cash flows subsequent to impairment. We compute gains and
losses realized on the sale of available for sale debt securities on a specific security basis. These securities gains/(losses) are included in the caption Net gains on sales of securities on the Consolidated Income Statement. 
In certain situations, management may elect to transfer certain debt securities from the securities available for sale to the held to maturity
classification. In such cases, any unrealized gain or loss at the date of transfer included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized over the remaining life of the security as a yield adjustment. This amortization offsets the
effect on interest income of the amortization of the premium or accretion of the discount on the security.  Equity Securities and
Partnership Interests  We account for equity securities and equity investments other than BlackRock and private equity investments
under one of the following methods: 


 
•
 
 Marketable equity securities are recorded on a trade-date basis and are accounted for based on the securities’ quoted market prices from a
national securities exchange. Those purchased with the intention of recognizing short-term profits are classified as trading and included in trading securities and other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Both realized and unrealized gains
and losses on trading securities are included in Noninterest income. Marketable equity securities not classified as trading are designated as securities available for sale with unrealized gains and losses, net of income taxes, reflected in
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Any unrealized losses that we have determined to be other-than-temporary on securities classified as available for sale are recognized in current period earnings. 
 


 
•
 
 For investments in limited partnerships, limited liability companies and other investments that are not required to be consolidated, we use either the
equity  
 
110    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
method or the cost method of accounting. We use the equity method for general and limited partner ownership interests and limited liability companies in which we are considered to have
significant influence over the operations of the investee and when the net asset value of our investment reflects our economic interest in the underlying investment. Under the equity method, we record our equity ownership share of net income or loss
of the investee in noninterest income. We use the cost method for all other investments. Under the cost method, there is no change to the cost basis unless there is an other-than-temporary decline in value or dividends are received. If the decline
is determined to be other-than-temporary, we write down the cost basis of the investment to a new cost basis that represents realizable value. The amount of the write-down is accounted for as a loss included in Other noninterest income.
Distributions received from the income of an investee on cost method investments are included in noninterest income. Investments described above are included in the caption Equity investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 Private Equity Investments  We report private equity investments, which include direct investments in companies, affiliated partnership interests and indirect investments in private equity funds, at estimated fair value. These
estimates are based on available information and may not necessarily represent amounts that we will ultimately realize through distribution, sale or liquidation of the investments. Fair value of publicly traded direct investments are determined
using quoted market prices and are subject to various discount factors for legal or contractual sales restrictions, when appropriate. The valuation procedures applied to direct investments in private companies include techniques such as multiples of
adjusted earnings of the entity, independent appraisals, anticipated financing and sale transactions with third parties, or the pricing used to value the entity in a recent financing transaction. We value affiliated partnership interests based on
the underlying investments of the partnership using procedures consistent with those applied to direct investments. On October 1, 2009, we adopted ASU 2009-12 – Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820) – Investments in
Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent). Based on the guidance, we value indirect investments in private equity funds based on net asset value as provided in the financial statements that we receive from their
managers. Due to the time lag in our receipt of the financial information and based on a review of investments and valuation techniques applied, adjustments to the manager-provided values are made when available recent portfolio company information
or market information indicates significant changes in value from that provided by the manager of the fund. We include all private equity investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the caption Equity investments. Changes in the fair value of
private equity investments are recognized in noninterest income.

We consolidate affiliated partnerships when we are the general partner and have determined that we have
control of the partnership or are the primary beneficiary of the VIE. The portion we do not own is reflected in the caption Noncontrolling interests on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.  LOANS  Loans are classified as held for investment when management
has both the intent and ability to hold the loan for the foreseeable future, or until maturity or payoff. Management’s intent and view of the foreseeable future may change based on changes in business strategies, the economic environment,
market conditions and the availability of government programs.  Measurement of delinquency status is based on the contractual terms of each
loan. Loans that are 30 days or more past due in terms of payment are considered delinquent.  Except as described below, loans held for
investment are stated at the principal amounts outstanding, net of unearned income, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans, and premiums or discounts on purchased loans. Interest on performing loans originated (excluding purchased
impaired loans, which are further discussed below) are accrued based on the principal amount outstanding and recorded in interest income as earned using the constant effective yield method. Loan origination fees, direct loan origination costs, and
loan premiums and discounts are deferred and accreted or amortized into net interest income, over periods not exceeding the contractual life of the loan.  When loans are redesignated from held for investment to held for sale, specific reserves and allocated pooled reserves included in the allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) are charged-off to reduce
the basis of the loans to the lower of cost or estimated fair value less cost to sell.  In addition to originating loans, we also acquire
loans through portfolio purchases or acquisitions of other financial services companies. For certain acquired loans that have experienced a deterioration of credit quality, we follow the guidance contained in ASC 310-30 – Loans and Debt
Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. Under this guidance, acquired purchased impaired loans are to be recorded at fair value without the carryover of any existing valuation allowances. Evidence of credit quality deterioration may
include information and statistics regarding bankruptcy events, updated borrower credit scores, such as Fair Isaac Corporation scores (FICO), past due status, and updated loan-to-value (LTV) ratios. We review the loans acquired for evidence of
credit quality deterioration and determine if it is probable that we will be unable to collect all contractual amounts due, including both principal and interest. When both conditions exist, we estimate the amount and timing of undiscounted expected
cash flows at acquisition for each loan either individually or on a pool basis. We estimate the cash
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    111 


Table of Contents


flows expected to be collected using internal models that incorporate management’s best estimate of current key assumptions, such as default rates, loss severity and payment speeds.
Collateral values are also incorporated into cash flow estimates. Late fees, which are contractual but not expected to be collected, are excluded from expected future cash flows.  The accretable yield is calculated based upon the difference between the undiscounted expected future cash flows of the loans and the recorded investment in the loans. This amount is accreted into income
over the life of the loan or pool using the constant effective yield method. Subsequent decreases in expected cash flows that are attributable, at least in part, to credit quality are recognized as impairments through a charge to the provision for
credit losses resulting in an increase in the ALLL. Subsequent increases in expected cash flows are recognized as a recovery of previously recorded ALLL or prospectively through an adjustment of the loan’s or pool’s yield over its
remaining life.  The nonaccretable yield represents the difference between the expected undiscounted cash flows of the loans and the total
contractual cash flows (including principal and future interest payments) at acquisition and throughout the remaining lives of the loans. 
LEASES  We provide
financing for various types of equipment, aircraft, energy and power systems, and rolling stock and automobiles through a variety of lease arrangements. Direct financing leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments plus estimated residual
value of the leased property, less unearned income. Leveraged leases, a form of financing lease, are carried net of nonrecourse debt. We recognize income over the term of the lease using the constant effective yield method. Lease residual values are
reviewed for other-than-temporary impairment on an annual basis. Gains or losses on the sale of leased assets are included in Other noninterest income while valuation adjustments on lease residuals are included in Other noninterest expense.
 LOAN SALES, LOAN SECURITIZATIONS AND RETAINED
INTERESTS  We recognize the sale of loans or other financial assets when the transferred assets are legally isolated
from our creditors and the appropriate accounting criteria are met. We have sold mortgage, credit card and other loans through securitization transactions. In a securitization, financial assets are transferred into trusts or to SPEs in transactions
to effectively legally isolate the assets from PNC. Where the transferor is a depository institution, legal isolation is accomplished through compliance with specific rules and regulations of the relevant regulatory authorities. Where the transferor
is not a depository institution, legal isolation is accomplished through utilization of a two-step securitization structure.  ASC Topic 860
– Accounting For Transfers of Financial Assets requires a true sale legal analysis to address several relevant factors, such as the nature and level of recourse to the


transferor, and the amount and nature of retained interests in the loans sold. The analytical conclusion as to a true sale is never absolute and unconditional, but contains qualifications based
on the inherent equitable powers of a bankruptcy court, as well as the unsettled state of the common law, or powers of the FDIC as a conservator or receiver. Once the legal isolation test has been met, other factors concerning the nature and extent
of the transferor’s control and the rights of the transferee over the transferred assets are taken into account in order to determine whether derecognition of assets is warranted.  In a securitization, the trust or SPE issues beneficial interests in the form of senior and subordinated securities backed or collateralized by the assets sold to the trust. The senior classes of the
asset-backed securities typically receive investment grade credit ratings at the time of issuance. These ratings are generally achieved through the creation of lower-rated subordinated classes of asset-backed securities, as well as subordinated or
residual interests. In certain cases, we may retain a portion or all of the securities issued, interest-only strips, one or more subordinated tranches, servicing rights and, in some cases, cash reserve accounts. Securitized loans are removed from
the balance sheet and a net gain or loss is recognized in noninterest income at the time of initial sale, and each subsequent sale for revolving securitization structures. Gains or losses recognized on the sale of the loans depend on the fair value
of the loans sold and the retained interests at the date of sale. We generally estimate the fair value of the retained interests based on the present value of future expected cash flows using assumptions as to discount rates, interest rates,
prepayment speeds, credit losses and servicing costs, if applicable.  Our loan sales and securitizations are generally structured without
recourse to us except for representations and warranties and with no restrictions on the retained interests with the exception of loan sales to certain US government chartered entities.  We originate, sell and service mortgage loans under the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA) Delegated Underwriting and Servicing (DUS) program. Under the provisions of the DUS program, we
participate in a loss-sharing arrangement with FNMA. We participated in a similar program with the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC). When we are obligated for loss-sharing or recourse, our policy is to record such liabilities initially
at fair value and subsequently reserve for estimated losses in accordance with guidance contained in applicable GAAP. Refer to Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees for more information about our obligations related to sales of loans under these
programs.  On January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2009-16 – Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860) – Accounting For Transfers of
Financial Assets. This guidance removed the concept of a  
 
112    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


qualifying special-purpose entity under previous GAAP. The guidance further clarified that an entity must consider all arrangements or agreements made contemporaneously with or in contemplation
of a transfer even if not entered into at the time of the transfer when applying surrender of control conditions. Additionally, this guidance established conditions for accounting and reporting for transfer of a portion of a financial asset,
modified the asset sale/derecognition criteria, and changed how retained interests are initially measured.  LOANS
HELD FOR SALE  We designate loans as held for sale when we have the intent to sell them.
We transfer loans to the Loans held for sale category at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less cost to sell. At the time of transfer, write-downs on the loans are recorded as charge-offs. We establish a new cost basis upon transfer. Any
subsequent lower-of-cost-or-market adjustment is determined on an individual loan basis and is recognized as a valuation allowance with any charges included in Other noninterest income. Gains or losses on the sale of these loans are included in
Other noninterest income when realized.  We have elected to account for certain commercial mortgage loans held for sale at fair value. The
changes in the fair value of these loans are measured and recorded in Other noninterest income each period. See Note 8 Fair Value for additional information. Also, we elected to account for residential real estate loans held for sale and
securitizations acquired from National City, which were not purchased impaired loans, at fair value.  Interest income with respect to loans
held for sale classified as performing is accrued based on the principal amount outstanding using a constant effective yield method.  In
certain circumstances, loans designated as held for sale may be transferred to held for investment based on a change in strategy. We transfer these loans at the lower of cost or estimated fair value; however, any loans held for sale and designated
at fair value will remain at fair value for the life of the loan.  NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 Nonperforming assets include: 


 
•
 
 Nonaccrual loans and leases, 


 
•
 
 Troubled debt restructurings, and 


 
•
 
 Other real estate owned and foreclosed assets.  Nonperforming loans are those loans that have deteriorated in credit quality to the extent that full collection of original contractual principal and interest is not probable. When a loan is determined to
be nonperforming (and as a result is impaired), the accrual of interest is ceased and the loan is classified as nonaccrual. The current year accrued and uncollected interest is reversed out of net interest income. 
A loan acquired and accounted for under ASC 310-30 – Loans and Debt Securities Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality is reported as an accruing
loan and a performing asset due to the accretion of interest income.

We generally classify Commercial Lending (Commercial, Commercial Real Estate, and Equipment Lease
Financing) loans as nonaccrual (and therefore nonperforming) when we determine that the collection of interest or principal is not probable or when delinquency of interest or principal payments has existed for 90 days or more and the loans are not
well-secured and in the process of collection. A loan is considered well-secured when the collateral in the form of liens on (or pledges of) real or personal property, including marketable securities, has a realizable value sufficient to discharge
the debt in full, including accrued interest. Such factors that would lead to nonperforming status and subject the loan to an impairment test would include, but are not limited to, the following: 


 
•
 
 Deterioration in the financial position of the borrower resulting in the loan moving from accrual to cash basis, 


 
•
 
 The collection of principal or interest is 90 days or more past due unless the asset is both well-secured and in the process of collection,



 
•
 
 Reasonable doubt exists as to the certainty of the future debt service ability, whether 90 days have passed or not, 


 
•
 
 Customer has filed or will likely file for bankruptcy, 


 
•
 
 The bank advances additional funds to cover principal or interest, 


 
•
 
 We are in the process of liquidation of a commercial borrower, or 


 
•
 
 We are pursuing remedies under a guaranty.  We charge off commercial nonaccrual loans when we determine that a specific loan, or portion thereof, is uncollectible. This determination is based on the specific facts and circumstances of the
individual loans. In making this determination, we consider the viability of the business or project as a going concern, the past due status when the asset is not well-secured, the expected cash flows to repay the loan, the value of the collateral,
and the ability and willingness of any guarantors to perform.  Additionally, in general, for smaller dollar commercial loans of $1 million or
less, a partial or full charge-off will occur at 120 days past due for term loans and 180 days past due for revolvers.  Home equity
installment loans and lines of credit, as well as residential real estate loans, that are well-secured are classified as nonaccrual at 180 days past due. A consumer loan is considered well-secured when the collateral in the form of liens on (or
pledges of) real or personal property, including marketable securities, has a realizable value sufficient to discharge the debt in full, including accrued interest.  Home equity installment loans and lines of credit and residential real estate loans that are not well-secured and/or are in the process of collection are charged off at 180 days past due to the estimated
fair value of the collateral less cost to sell. The remaining portion of the loan is placed on nonaccrual status.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    113 


Table of Contents

Most consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by residential real estate, are charged off after 120
to 180 days past due. Generally, they are not placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance.  If payment is received on a
nonperforming loan, the payment is first applied to the past due principal; once this principal obligation has been fulfilled, payments are applied to recover any partial charge-off related to the impaired loan that might exist. Finally, if both
past due principal and any partial charge-off have been recovered, then the payment will result in the recognition and recording of interest income. This process is followed for impaired loans with the exception of troubled debt restructurings
(TDRs). Payments received on TDRs will be applied in accordance with the terms of the TDR.  A TDR is a loan whose terms have been restructured
in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. TDRs may include restructuring certain terms of loans, receipts of assets from debtors in partial satisfaction of loans, or a combination thereof. TDRs are
included in nonperforming loans until returned to performing status through the fulfilling of restructured terms for a reasonable period of time (generally 6 months).  See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit for additional TDR information. 
Nonperforming loans are generally not returned to performing status until the obligation is brought current and the borrower has performed in accordance
with the contractual terms for a reasonable period of time and collection of the contractual principal and interest is no longer in doubt. 
Foreclosed assets are comprised of any asset seized or property acquired through a foreclosure proceeding or acceptance of a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
Other real estate owned is comprised principally of commercial real estate and residential real estate properties obtained in partial or total satisfaction of loan obligations. Following the obtaining of a foreclosure judgment, or in some
jurisdictions the initiation of proceedings under a power of sale in the loan instruments, the property will be sold. When we acquire the deed, we transfer the loan to other real estate owned included in Other assets on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet. Property obtained in satisfaction of a loan is recorded at estimated fair value less cost to sell. We estimate fair values primarily based on appraisals, when available, or sales agreements with third parties. Anticipated recoveries and
government guarantees are also considered in evaluating the potential impairment of loans at the date of transfer. Based upon the estimated fair value less cost to sell, the recorded investment of the loan, is adjusted, and a charge-off/recovery is
recognized to the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL).

Subsequently, foreclosed assets are valued at the lower of the amount recorded at acquisition date or
estimated fair value less cost to sell. Valuation adjustments on these assets and gains or losses realized from disposition of such property are reflected in Other noninterest expense.  See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit for additional information.  ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES  We maintain the ALLL at a level that we believe to be appropriate to absorb estimated probable credit losses incurred in the loan portfolio as of the balance sheet date. Our determination of the allowance
is based on periodic evaluations of the loan and lease portfolios and other relevant factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates, all of which may be susceptible to significant change, including, among others:



 
•
 
 Probability of default (PD), 


 
•
 
 Loss given default (LGD), 


 
•
 
 Exposure at date of default (EAD), 


 
•
 
 Movement through delinquency stages, 


 
•
 
 Amounts and timing of expected future cash flows, 


 
•
 
 Value of collateral, and 


 
•
 
 Qualitative factors such as changes in current economic conditions that may not be reflected in historical results. 
While our reserve methodologies strive to reflect all relevant risk factors, there continues to be uncertainty associated with, but not limited to,
potential imprecision in the estimation process due to the inherent time lag of obtaining information and normal variations between estimates and actual outcomes. We provide additional reserves that are designed to provide coverage for losses
attributable to such risks. The ALLL also includes factors which may not be directly measured in the determination of specific or pooled reserves. Such qualitative factors may include: 


 
•
 
 Industry concentrations and conditions, 


 
•
 
 Recent credit quality trends, 


 
•
 
 Recent loss experience in particular portfolios, 


 
•
 
 Recent macro economic factors, 


 
•
 
 Changes in risk selection and underwriting standards, and 


 
•
 
 Timing of available information.  In determining the appropriateness of the ALLL, we make specific allocations to impaired loans and allocations to portfolios of commercial and consumer loans. While allocations are made to specific loans
and pools of loans, the total reserve is available for all credit losses.  
 
114    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Nonperforming loans are considered impaired under ASC 310-Receivables and are allocated a specific reserve.
Specific reserve allocations are determined as follows: 


 
•
 
 For commercial nonperforming loans greater than or equal to a defined dollar threshold and TDRs, specific reserves are based on an analysis of the
present value of the loan’s expected future cash flows, the loan’s observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. 


 
•
 
 For commercial nonperforming loans below the defined dollar threshold, the loans are aggregated for purposes of measuring specific reserve impairment
using the applicable loan’s LGD percentage multiplied by the balance of the loan. 


 
•
 
 Consumer nonperforming loans are collectively reserved for unless classified as TDRs, for which specific reserves are based on an analysis of the
present value of the loan’s expected future cash flows. 


 
•
 
 For purchased impaired loans, subsequent decreases to the net present value of expected cash flows will generally result in an impairment charge to the
provision for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the ALLL.  When applicable, this process is applied across all the
loan classes in a similar manner. However, as previously discussed, certain consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by residential real estate, are charged off instead of being classified as nonperforming. 
Our credit risk management policies, procedures and practices are designed to promote sound lending standards and prudent credit risk management. We have
policies, procedures and practices that address financial statement requirements, collateral review and appraisal requirements, advance rates based upon collateral types, appropriate levels of exposure, cross-border risk, lending to specialized
industries or borrower type, guarantor requirements, and regulatory compliance.  See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease
Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit for additional information.  ALLOWANCE FOR
UNFUNDED LOAN COMMITMENTS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT  We maintain the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit at a level we believe is appropriate to absorb estimated probable credit losses on these unfunded credit facilities as of the
balance sheet date. We determine the allowance based on periodic evaluations of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment of the probability of commitment usage, credit risk factors, and, solely for commercial lending, the terms and
expiration dates of the unfunded credit facilities. The allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit is recorded as a liability on


the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Net adjustments to the allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit are included in the provision for credit losses. 
The reserve for unfunded loan commitments is estimated in a manner similar to the methodology used for determining reserves for similar funded exposures.
However, there is one important distinction. This distinction lies in the estimation of the amount of these unfunded commitments that will become funded. This is determined using a cash conversion factor or loan equivalency factor, which is a
statistical estimate of the amount of an unfunded commitment that will fund over a given period of time. Once the future funded amount is estimated, the calculation of the allowance follows similar methodologies to those employed for on-balance
sheet exposure.  See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit for
additional information.  MORTGAGE AND OTHER SERVICING RIGHTS
 We provide servicing under various loan servicing contracts for commercial, residential and other consumer loans. These contracts are
either purchased in the open market or retained as part of a loan securitization or loan sale. All newly acquired or originated servicing rights are initially measured at fair value. Fair value is based on the present value of the expected future
cash flows, including assumptions as to: 


 
•
 
 Deposit balances and interest rates for escrow and commercial reserve earnings, 


 
•
 
 Discount rates, 


 
•
 
 Stated note rates, 


 
•
 
 Estimated prepayment speeds, and 


 
•
 
 Estimated servicing costs. 
For subsequent measurements of these assets, we have elected to utilize either the amortization method or fair value measurement based upon the asset
class and our risk management strategy for managing these assets. For commercial mortgage loan servicing rights, we use the amortization method. This election was made based on the unique characteristics of the commercial mortgage loans underlying
these servicing rights with regard to market inputs used in determining fair value and how we manage the risks inherent in the commercial mortgage servicing rights assets. Specific risk characteristics of commercial mortgages include loan type,
currency or exchange rate, interest rates, expected cash flows and changes in the cost of servicing. We record these servicing assets as Other intangible assets and amortize them over their estimated lives based on estimated net servicing income. On
a quarterly basis, we test the assets for impairment by categorizing the pools of assets underlying the servicing rights into various strata. If the estimated fair value of the assets is less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized
and a valuation reserve is established.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    115 


Table of Contents

For servicing rights related to residential real estate loans, we apply the fair value method. This
election was made to be consistent with our risk management strategy to hedge changes in the fair value of these assets. We manage this risk by hedging the fair value of this asset with derivatives and securities which are expected to increase in
value when the value of the servicing right declines. The fair value of these servicing rights is estimated by using a cash flow valuation model which calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, taking into
consideration actual and expected mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, servicing costs, and other economic factors which are determined based on current market conditions.  Revenue from the various loan servicing contracts for commercial, residential and other consumer loans is reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in line items Corporate services, Residential
mortgage and Consumer services.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS  The fair value of financial instruments and the methods and assumptions used in estimating fair value
amounts and financial assets and liabilities for which fair value was elected based on the fair value guidance are detailed in Note 8 Fair Value.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  We assess goodwill for impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the assets might be impaired. Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized
to expense using accelerated or straight-line methods over their respective estimated useful lives. We review finite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset’s carrying amount may
not be recoverable from undiscounted future cash flows or that it may exceed its fair value.  DEPRECIATION
AND AMORTIZATION  For financial reporting purposes, we depreciate premises and equipment, net of salvage
value, principally using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives.  We use estimated useful lives for furniture and
equipment ranging from one to 10 years, and depreciate buildings over an estimated useful life of up to 40 years. We amortize leasehold improvements over their estimated useful lives of up to 15 years or the respective lease terms, whichever is
shorter.  We purchase, as well as internally develop and customize, certain software to enhance or perform internal business functions.
Software development costs incurred in the planning and post-development project stages are charged to noninterest expense. Costs associated with designing software configuration and interfaces, installation, coding programs and testing systems are
capitalized and amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from one to seven years.

REPURCHASE AND RESALE AGREEMENTS
 Repurchase and resale agreements are treated as collateralized financing transactions and are carried at the amounts at which the
securities will be subsequently reacquired or resold, including accrued interest, as specified in the respective agreements. Our policy is to take possession of securities purchased under agreements to resell. We monitor the market value of
securities to be repurchased and resold and additional collateral may be obtained where considered appropriate to protect against credit exposure. We have elected to account for resale agreements at fair value. 
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  Other comprehensive income consists, on an after-tax basis, primarily of unrealized gains or losses, excluding OTTI attributable to credit deterioration, on investment securities classified as available
for sale, derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, and changes in pension, other postretirement and postemployment benefit plan liability adjustments. Details of each component are included in Note 19 Other Comprehensive Income. 
TREASURY STOCK  We record common stock purchased for treasury at cost. At the date of subsequent reissue, the treasury stock account is reduced by the cost of such stock on the first-in, first-out basis. 
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
We use a variety of financial derivatives as part of our overall asset and liability risk management process to help manage interest rate, market and
credit risk inherent in our business activities. Interest rate and total return swaps, swaptions, interest rate caps and floors and futures contracts are the primary instruments we use for interest rate risk management. 
Financial derivatives involve, to varying degrees, interest rate, market and credit risk. We manage these risks as part of our asset and liability
management process and through credit policies and procedures. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk by entering into transactions with only high-quality institutions, establishing credit limits, and generally requiring bilateral netting and
collateral agreements.  We recognize all derivative instruments at fair value as either Other assets or Other liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet and the related cash flows in the Operating Activities section of the Consolidated Statement Of Cash Flows. Adjustments for counterparty credit risk are included in the determination of their fair value. The accounting for changes in
the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship. For derivatives not designated as an accounting hedge, changes in fair value are recognized in noninterest income.
 We utilize a net presentation for derivative instruments on the Consolidated Balance Sheet taking into consideration the effects of legally
enforceable master netting agreements. Cash  
 
116    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


collateral exchanged with counterparties is also netted against the applicable derivative exposures by offsetting obligations to return or rights to reclaim cash collateral against the fair
values of the net derivatives being collateralized.  For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as accounting hedges, we
designate the hedging instrument, based on the exposure being hedged, as either a fair value hedge, a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation.  We formally document the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy, before undertaking an accounting hedge. To qualify for hedge
accounting, the derivatives and related hedged items must be designated as a hedge at inception of the hedge relationship. For accounting hedge relationships, we formally assess, both at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, if the
derivatives are highly effective in offsetting designated changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. If it is determined that the derivative instrument is not highly effective, hedge accounting is discontinued. 
For derivatives that are designated as fair value hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or a liability attributable
to a particular risk, such as changes in LIBOR), changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognized in earnings and offset by also recognizing in earnings the changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the hedged
risk. To the extent the change in fair value of the derivative does not offset the change in fair value of the hedged item, the difference or ineffectiveness is reflected in the Consolidated Income Statement in the same financial statement category
as the hedged item.  For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows),
the effective portions of the gain or loss on derivatives are reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently reclassified to interest income in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction
affects earnings. The change in fair value attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedging instrument is recognized immediately in noninterest income.  For derivatives designated as a hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portions of the gain or loss on the derivatives are reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss). The change in fair value of any ineffectiveness of the hedging instrument is recognized immediately in noninterest income.  We
discontinue hedge accounting when it is determined that the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective hedge; the derivative expires or is sold, terminated or exercised; or the derivative is de-designated as a fair value or cash flow hedge


or, for a cash flow hedge, it is no longer probable that the forecasted transaction will occur by the end of the originally specified time period. If we determine that the derivative no longer
qualifies as a fair value or cash flow hedge and hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative will continue to be recorded on the balance sheet at its fair value with changes in fair value included in current earnings. For a discontinued fair
value hedge, the previously hedged item is no longer adjusted for changes in fair value.  When hedge accounting is discontinued because it is
no longer probable that a forecasted transaction will occur, the derivative will continue to be recorded on the balance sheet at its fair value with changes in fair value included in current earnings, and the gains and losses in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) will be recognized immediately into earnings. When we discontinue hedge accounting because the hedging instrument is sold, terminated or no longer designated, the amount reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) up to the date of sale, termination or de-designation continues to be reported in Other comprehensive income or loss until the forecasted transaction affects earnings. We did not terminate any cash flow hedges in 2011, 2010 or 2009 due to a
determination that a forecasted transaction was no longer probable of occurring.  We purchase or originate financial instruments that contain
an embedded derivative. At the inception of the transaction, we assess if the economic characteristics of the embedded derivative are clearly and closely related to the economic characteristics of the host contract, whether the hybrid financial
instrument is measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings, and whether a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would be a derivative. If the embedded derivative does not meet all of these
conditions, the embedded derivative is recorded separately from the host contract with changes in fair value recorded in earnings, unless we elect to account for the hybrid instrument at fair value. 
We have elected on an instrument-by-instrument basis, fair value measurement for certain financial instruments with embedded derivatives. 
We enter into commitments to originate residential and commercial mortgage loans for sale. We also enter into commitments to purchase or sell commercial
and residential real estate loans. These commitments are accounted for as free-standing derivatives which are recorded at fair value in Other assets or Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Any gain or loss from the change in fair
value after the inception of the commitment is recognized in noninterest income.  INCOME TAXES
 We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on
differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    117 


Table of Contents


enacted tax rates and laws that we expect will apply at the time when we believe the differences will reverse. The realization of deferred tax assets requires an assessment to determine the
realization of such assets. Realization refers to the incremental benefit achieved through the reduction in future taxes payable or refunds receivable from the deferred tax assets, assuming that the underlying deductible differences and
carryforwards are the last items to enter into the determination of future taxable income. We establish a valuation allowance for tax assets when it is more likely than not that they will not be realized, based upon all available positive and
negative evidence.  EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
Basic earnings per common share is calculated using the two-class method to determine income attributable to common shareholders. Unvested share-based
payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are considered participating securities under the two-class method. Income attributable to common shareholders is then divided by the weighted-average common
shares outstanding for the period.  Diluted earnings per common share is calculated under the more dilutive of either the treasury method or
the two-class method. For the diluted calculation, we increase the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding by the assumed conversion of outstanding convertible preferred stock and debentures from the beginning of the year or
date of issuance, if later, and the number of shares of common stock that would be issued assuming the exercise of stock options and warrants and the issuance of incentive shares using the treasury stock method. These adjustments to the
weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding are made only when such adjustments will dilute earnings per common share. See Note 17 Earnings Per Share for additional information. 
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011-11 - Balance Sheet (Topic 210) – Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.
This ASU applies to all entities that have financial instruments and derivative instruments that are either (1) offset in accordance with either ASC 210-20-45 or ASC 815-10-45 or (2) subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or
similar agreement. Under this ASU, an entity is required to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. This ASU
is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. The disclosures required by the ASU are to be applied retrospectively for all comparative periods presented. We
will adopt the new disclosure requirements on January 1, 2013.

In December 2011, the FASB also finalized ASU 2011-10 – Property, Plant, and Equipment (Topic 360)
– Derecognition of in Substance Real Estate – a Scope Clarification (a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force). This ASU clarified that the guidance in ASC 360-20 applies to a parent that ceases to have a controlling financial
interest (as described in ASC 810-10) in a subsidiary that is in substance real estate as a result of default on the subsidiary’s nonrecourse debt. The amendments within this update should be applied on a prospective basis and are effective for
fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after June 15, 2012. The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08 – Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) – Testing Goodwill for Impairment. Annually,
the ASU permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity qualitatively determines the fair value of a
reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, it is not required to perform the step 1 quantitative goodwill impairment test for the reporting unit. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position.  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05 - Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Presentation of Comprehensive Income. This ASU will require an entity to present each component of net income along with total
net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with total other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. In both presentation options, the tax effect for each component must be presented in the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented or disclosed in the notes to the financial statements. This ASU does not change the items
that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12 – Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), Deferral of the Effective
Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in ASU 2011-05. This ASU defers those changes in ASU 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments as the
Board redeliberates this item. Entities should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before ASU 2011-05. For PNC, the requirements included in ASU
2011-05 and ASU 2011-12 are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those
 
 
118    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


years, beginning after December 15, 2011. We will adopt the new disclosure requirements on January 1, 2012.  In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04 - Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. This ASU provides
guidance to clarify the concept of highest and best use valuation premise, how a principal market is determined, and the application of the fair value measurement for instruments with offsetting market or counterparty credit risks. It also extends
the prohibition on blockage factors to all fair value hierarchy levels. This ASU will require additional disclosures for the following: (1) quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in all Level 3 financial
instruments, (2) the valuation processes used by the reporting entity as well as a narrative description of the sensitivity of the fair value measurement to changes in unobservable inputs, (3) a reporting entity’s use of a
nonfinancial asset in a way that differs from the asset’s highest and best use if the fair value of the asset is reported, (4) the categorization by level of the fair value hierarchy for items that are not measured at fair value in
financial statements and (5) any transfers between Level 1 and 2 and the reason for those transfers. ASU 2011-04 is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2011, and should be applied prospectively.
The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position.  In April
2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-03 – Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860), Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements. This ASU removes from the assessment of effective control (1) the criterion requiring the transferor
to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even in the event of default by the transferee, and (2) the collateral maintenance implementation guidance related to that criterion. Other
criteria applicable to the assessment of effective control have not been changed by this ASU. ASU 2011-03 is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively to
transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after the effective date. The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material effect on our results of operations or financial position. 
In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-02 – Receivables (Topic 310), A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt
Restructuring. The ASU


clarifies when a loan restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring (TDR). This ASU (1) eliminates the sole use of the borrowers’ effective interest rate test to determine if
a concession has occurred on the part of the creditor, (2) requires a restructuring with below market terms to be considered in determining classification as a TDR, (3) specifies that a borrower not currently in default may still be
experiencing financial difficulty when payment default is “probable in the foreseeable future,” and (4) specifies that a delay in payment should be considered along with all other factors in determining classification as a TDR. The
ASU guidance was effective for interim and annual periods beginning after June 15, 2011 and was to be applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption.  As a result of adopting the amendments in ASU 2011-02, we reassessed all restructurings that occurred on or after the beginning of the current fiscal year (January 1, 2011) for identification as TDRs. We
identified as TDRs certain loans for which the allowance for credit losses had previously been measured under a general allowance for credit losses methodology. Upon identifying those loans as TDRs, we accounted for them as impaired under the
guidance in ASC 310-10-35. The amendments in ASU 2011-02 require prospective application of the impairment measurement guidance in ASC 310-10-35 for those loans newly identified as TDRs. Accordingly, at the end of the first interim period of
adoption (September 30, 2011), the recorded investment in receivables for which the allowance for credit losses was previously measured under a general allowance for credit losses methodology and are now measured under ASC 310-10-35 was
approximately $69 million and the allowance for credit losses associated with those receivables was approximately $21 million. Additionally, we adopted ASU 2010-20 – Receivables (Topic 310), Disclosures about the Credit Quality of
Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses for TDR disclosures. See Note 5 Asset Quality and Allowances for Loan and Lease Losses and Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit for additional information. 
In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-06 – Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820), Improving Disclosures About Fair Value
Measurements. This ASU required purchases, sales, issuances and settlements to be reported separately in the Level 3 fair value measurement rollforward beginning with the first quarter 2011 reporting. See Note 8 Fair Value for additional
information.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    119 


Table of Contents

NOTE 2 ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE ACTIVITY 
PENDING ACQUISITION OF RBC BANK (USA) 
On June 19, 2011, we entered into a definitive agreement with Royal Bank of Canada and RBC USA Holdco Corporation to acquire RBC Bank (USA), the US
retail banking subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada, for $3.45 billion. The purchase price is subject to certain adjustments, including adjustments based on the closing date tangible net asset value of RBC Bank (USA), as defined in the definitive
agreement. Although PNC has the option to pay up to $1.0 billion of the purchase price using shares of PNC common stock under the terms of the agreement, PNC currently does not plan to issue any shares of PNC common stock as part of the
consideration. PNC has also agreed to acquire certain credit card accounts of RBC Bank (USA) customers issued by RBC Bank (Georgia), National Association, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Royal Bank of Canada. 
RBC Bank (USA) has approximately $25 billion (unaudited) in “proforma” assets as reflected in the definitive agreement to be included in the
transaction and more than 400 branches in North Carolina, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Virginia and South Carolina. The transaction is expected to close in March 2012, subject to remaining customary closing conditions. 
FLAGSTAR BRANCH ACQUISITION  Effective December 9, 2011, PNC acquired 27 branches in the northern metropolitan Atlanta, Georgia area from Flagstar Bank, FSB, a subsidiary of Flagstar Bancorp, Inc. The fair value of the assets
acquired totaled approximately $211.8 million, including $169.3 million in cash, $24.3 million in fixed assets and $18.2 million of goodwill and intangible assets. We also assumed approximately $210.5 million of deposits associated with these
branches. No deposit premium was paid and no loans were acquired in the transaction. Our Consolidated Income Statement includes the impact of the branch activity subsequent to our December 9, 2011 acquisition. 
BANKATLANTIC BRANCH ACQUISITION 
Effective June 6, 2011, PNC acquired 19 branches in the greater Tampa, Florida area from BankAtlantic, a subsidiary of BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. The
fair value of the assets acquired totaled approximately $324.9 million, including $256.9 million in cash, $26.0 million in fixed assets and $42.0 million of goodwill and intangible assets. We also assumed approximately $324.5 million of deposits
associated with these branches. A $39.0 million deposit premium was paid and no loans were acquired in the transaction. Our Consolidated Income Statement includes the impact of the branch activity subsequent to our June 6, 2011 acquisition.

SALE OF PNC GLOBAL INVESTMENT
SERVICING  On July 1, 2010, we sold PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS), a leading provider of processing,
technology and business intelligence services to asset managers, broker-dealers and financial advisors worldwide, for $2.3 billion in cash pursuant to a definitive agreement entered into on February 2, 2010. This transaction resulted in a
pretax gain of $639 million, net of transaction costs, in the third quarter of 2010. This gain and results of operations of GIS through June 30, 2010 are presented as Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, on our Consolidated
Income Statement. As part of the sale agreement, PNC has agreed to provide certain transitional services on behalf of GIS until completion of related systems conversion activities. There were no assets or liabilities of GIS remaining on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010. 
NOTE 3 LOAN SALE AND SERVICING ACTIVITIES
AND VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
LOAN SALE AND SERVICING ACTIVITIES 
We have transferred residential and commercial mortgage loans in securitization or sales transactions in which we have continuing involvement. These
transfers have occurred through Agency securitization, Non-Agency securitization, and whole-loan sale transactions. Agency securitizations consist of securitization transactions with Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), and Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) (collectively the Agencies). FNMA and FHLMC generally securitize our transferred loans into mortgage-backed securities for sale into the secondary market through
special purpose entities (SPEs) they sponsor. We, as an authorized GNMA issuer/servicer, pool Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) insured loans into mortgage-backed securities for sale into the secondary
market. In Non-Agency securitizations, we have transferred loans into securitization SPEs. In other instances third-party investors have purchased (in whole-loan sale transactions) and subsequently sold our loans into securitization SPEs.
Third-party investors have also purchased our loans in whole-loan sale transactions. Securitization SPEs, which are legal entities that are utilized in the Agency and Non-Agency securitization transactions, are VIEs. 
Our continuing involvement in the Agency securitizations, Non-Agency securitizations, and whole-loan sale transactions generally consists of servicing,
repurchases of previously transferred loans and loss share arrangements, and, in limited circumstances, holding of mortgage-backed securities issued by the securitization SPEs.
 
 
120    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
 
Depending on the transaction, we may act as the master, primary, and/or special servicer to the
securitization SPEs or third-party investors. Servicing responsibilities typically consist of collecting and remitting monthly borrower principal and interest payments, maintaining escrow deposits, performing loss mitigation and foreclosure
activities, and, in certain instances, funding of servicing advances. Servicing advances, which are reimbursable, are recognized in Other assets at cost and are made for principal and interest and collateral protection. 
We earn servicing and other ancillary fees for our role as servicer and, depending on the contractual terms of the servicing arrangement, we can be
terminated as servicer with or without cause. At the consummation date of each type of loan transfer, we recognize a servicing asset at fair value. Servicing assets are recognized in Other intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and are
classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 8 Fair Value and Note 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further discussion of our residential and commercial servicing assets. 
Certain loans transferred to the Agencies contain removal of account provisions (ROAPs). Under these ROAPs, we hold an option to repurchase at par
individual delinquent loans that meet certain criteria. When we have the unilateral ability to repurchase a delinquent loan, effective control over the loan has been regained and we recognize an asset (in either Loans or Loans held for sale) and a
corresponding liability (in Other borrowed funds) on the balance sheet regardless of our intent to repurchase the loan. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, balances recognized in Loans and Other borrowed funds associated with our
ROAP option totaled $265 million and $336 million, respectively.

We generally do not retain mortgage-backed securities issued by the Agency and Non-Agency securitization
SPEs at the inception of the securitization transactions. Rather, our limited holdings of these securities occur through subsequent purchases in the secondary market. PNC does not retain any credit risk on its Agency mortgage-backed security
positions as FNMA, FHLMC, and the US Government (for GNMA) guarantee losses of principal and interest. We generally hold a senior class of Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities.  We also have involvement with certain Agency and Non-Agency commercial securitization SPEs where we have not transferred commercial mortgage loans. These SPEs were sponsored by independent third-parties
and the loans held by these entities were purchased exclusively from other third-parties. Generally, our involvement with these SPEs is as servicer with servicing activities consistent with those described above. In certain instances, we can be
terminated as servicer in these commercial securitization structures without cause by the controlling class of mortgage-backed security holders of the SPE.  We recognize a liability for our loss exposure associated with contractual obligations to repurchase previously transferred loans due to breaches of representations and warranties and also for loss
sharing arrangements (recourse obligations) with the Agencies. Other than providing temporary liquidity under servicing advances and our loss exposure associated with our repurchase and recourse obligations, we have not provided nor are we required
to provide any type of credit support, guarantees, or commitments to the securitization SPEs or third-party investors in these transactions. See Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees for further discussion of our repurchase and recourse obligations.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    121 


Table of Contents
The following table provides information related to certain financial information associated with PNC’s
loan sale and servicing activities:  Certain Financial Information and Cash Flows Associated with Loan Sale and Servicing Activities
  
















In millions
  
ResidentialMortgages
 
  
CommercialMortgages (a)
 
  

Home EquityLoans/ Lines (b)
 

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – December 31, 2011
  



  



  


 

 Servicing portfolio (c)
  
$
118,058
 
  
$
155,813
 
  
$
5,661
 

 Carrying value of servicing assets (d)
  
 
647
 
  
 
468
 
  
 
1
 

 Servicing advances (e)
  
 
563
 
  
 
510
 
  
 
8
 

 Servicing deposits (f)
  
 
2,264
 
  
 
3,861
 
  
 
38
 

 Repurchase and recourse obligations (g)
  
 
83
 
  
 
47
 
  
 
47
 

 Carrying value of mortgage-backed securities held (h)
  
 
4,654
 
  
 
1,839
 
  
 
 
 

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION – December 31, 2010
  



  



  


 

 Servicing portfolio (c)
  
$
125,806
 
  
$
162,514
 
  
$
6,041
 

 Carrying value of servicing assets (d)
  
 
1,033
 
  
 
665
 
  
 
2
 

 Servicing advances (e)
  
 
533
 
  
 
415
 
  
 
21
 

 Servicing deposits (f)
  
 
2,661
 
  
 
3,537
 
  
 
61
 

 Repurchase and recourse obligations (g)
  
 
144
 
  
 
54
 
  
 
150
 

 Carrying value of mortgage-backed securities held (h)
  
 
2,171
 
  
 
1,875
 
  
 
 
 
 The following table provides information related to the cash flows associated with PNC’s loan sale and servicing
activities:   
















In millions
  
ResidentialMortgages
 
 
CommercialMortgages (a)
 
 

Home EquityLoans/ Lines (b)
 

 CASH FLOWS – Year ended December 31, 2011
  



 



 


 

 Sales of loans (i)
  
$
11,920
 
 
$
2,351
 
 


 

 Repurchases of previously transferred loans (j)
  
 
1,683
 
 



 
$
42
 

 Contractual servicing fees received
  
 
355
 
 
 
179
 
 
 
22
 

 Servicing advances recovered/(funded), net
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
(95
) 
 
 
12
 

 Cash flows on mortgage-backed securities held (h)
  
 
586
 
 
 
419
 
 
 
 
 

 CASH FLOWS – Year ended December 31, 2010
  



 



 


 

 Sales of loans (i)
  
$
9,951
 
 
$
2,413
 
 


 

 Repurchases of previously transferred loans (j)
  
 
2,283
 
 



 
$
28
 

 Contractual servicing fees received
  
 
413
 
 
 
224
 
 
 
26
 

 Servicing advances recovered/(funded), net
  
 
66
 
 
 
(32
) 
 
 
2
 

 Cash flows on mortgage-backed securities held (h)
  
 
588
 
 
 
510
 
 
 
 
 



(a)
Represents financial and cash flow information associated with both commercial mortgage loan transfer and servicing activities. 


(b)
These activities were part of an acquired brokered home equity business in which PNC is no longer engaged. See Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees for further
information. 


(c)
For our continuing involvement with residential mortgages and home equity loan/line transfers, amount represents outstanding balance of loans transferred and serviced.
For commercial mortgages, amount represents the portion of the overall servicing portfolio in which loans have been transferred by us or third parties to VIEs. 


(d)
See Note 8 Fair Value and Note 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for further information. 


(e)
Pursuant to certain contractual servicing agreements, represents outstanding balance of funds advanced (i) to investors for monthly collections of borrower
principal and interest, (ii) for borrower draws on unused home equity lines of credit, and (iii) for collateral protection associated with the underlying mortgage collateral. 


(f)
Represents balances in custodial and escrow demand deposit accounts held at PNC on behalf of investors. Borrower’s loan payments including escrows are deposited in
these accounts prior to their distribution. 


(g)
Represents liability for our loss exposure associated with loan repurchases for breaches of representations and warranties for our Residential Mortgage Banking and
Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio segments, and our multi-family commercial mortgage loss share arrangements for our Corporate & Institutional Banking segment. See Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees for further information.



(h)
Represents securities held where PNC transferred to and/or services loans for a securitization SPE and we hold securities issued by that SPE. 


(i)
There were no gains or losses recognized on the transaction date for sales of residential mortgage and certain commercial mortgage loans as these loans are recognized
on the balance sheet at fair value. For transfers of commercial mortgage loans not recognized on the balance sheet at fair value, gains/losses recognized on sales of these loans were insignificant for the periods presented. 


(j)
Includes repurchases of government insured and government guaranteed loans repurchased through the exercise of our ROAP option. 
 
122    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES (VIES)
 We are involved with various entities in the normal course of business that are deemed to be VIEs. We assess VIEs for consolidation
based upon the accounting policies described in Note 1 Accounting Policies. The following provides a summary of VIEs, including those that we have consolidated and those in which we hold variable interests but have not consolidated into our
financial statements as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  Consolidated VIEs – Carrying Value (a)
  




















 December 31, 2011 In millions
  
Market Street
 
  
Credit CardSecuritization Trust
 
 
Tax CreditInvestments (b)
 
  
Total
 

 Assets
  


 
  


 
 


 
  


 

 Cash and due from banks
  


 
  


 
 
$
7
 
  
$
7
 

 Interest-earning deposits with banks
  


 
  
$
317
 
 
 
8
 
  
 
325
 

 Investment securities
  
$
109
 
  


 
 


 
  
 
109
 

 Loans
  
 
4,163
 
  
 
1,933
 
 


 
  
 
6,096
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses
  


 
  
 
(91
) 
 


 
  
 
(91
) 

 Equity investments
  


 
  


 
 
 
1,643
 
  
 
1,643
 

 Other assets
  
 
360
 
  
 
7
 
 
 
838
 
  
 
1,205
 

 Total assets
  
$
4,632
 
  
$
2,166
 
 
$
2,496
 
  
$
9,294
 


 
 
 
 

 Liabilities
  


 
  


 
 


 
  


 

 Other borrowed funds
  
$
4,272
 
  
$
287
 
 
$
218
 
  
$
4,777
 

 Accrued expenses
  


 
  
 
50
 
 
 
105
 
  
 
155
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
355
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
379
 
  
 
734
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
4,627
 
  
$
337
 
 
$
702
 
  
$
5,666
 
  




















 December 31, 2010 In millions
  
Market Street
 
  
Credit CardSecuritization Trust
 
 
Tax CreditInvestments (b)
 
  
Total
 

 Assets
  


 
  


 
 


 
  


 

 Cash and due from banks
  


 
  


 
 
$
2
 
  
$
2
 

 Interest-earning deposits with banks
  


 
  
$
284
 
 
 
4
 
  
 
288
 

 Investment securities
  
$
192
 
  


 
 


 
  
 
192
 

 Loans
  
 
2,520
 
  
 
2,125
 
 


 
  
 
4,645
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses
  


 
  
 
(183
) 
 


 
  
 
(183
) 

 Equity investments
  


 
  


 
 
 
1,177
 
  
 
1,177
 

 Other assets
  
 
271
 
  
 
9
 
 
 
396
 
  
 
676
 

 Total assets
  
$
2,983
 
  
$
2,235
 
 
$
1,579
 
  
$
6,797
 


 
 
 
 

 Liabilities
  


 
  


 
 


 
  


 

 Other borrowed funds
  
$
2,715
 
  
$
523
 
 
$
116
 
  
$
3,354
 

 Accrued expenses
  


 
  
 
9
 
 
 
79
 
  
 
88
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
268
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
188
 
  
 
456
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
2,983
 
  
$
532
 
 
$
383
 
  
$
3,898
 



(a)
Amounts represent carrying value on PNC’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(b)
Amounts primarily represent Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) investments. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    123 


Table of Contents
Assets and Liabilities of Consolidated VIEs (a) 
 












In millions
  
AggregateAssets
 
  
AggregateLiabilities
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  


 

 Market Street
  
$
5,490
 
  
$
5,491
 

 Credit Card Securitization Trust
  
 
2,175
 
  
 
494
 

 Tax Credit Investments (b)
  
 
2,503
 
  
 
723
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  


 

 Market Street
  
$
3,584
 
  
$
3,588
 

 Credit Card Securitization Trust
  
 
2,269
 
  
 
1,004
 

 Tax Credit Investments (b)
  
 
1,590
 
  
 
420
 



(a)
Amounts in this table differ from total assets and liabilities in the preceding “Consolidated VIEs – Carrying Value” table due to the elimination of
intercompany assets and liabilities in the preceding table. 


(b)
Amounts primarily represent LIHTC investments. 
Non-Consolidated VIEs   
























In millions
  
AggregateAssets
 
  
AggregateLiabilities
 
  
PNCRisk ofLoss
 
  
CarryingValue ofAssets
 
 
CarryingValue ofLiabilities
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



 


 

 Tax Credit Investments (a)
  
$
5,382
 
  
$
2,384
 
  
$
836
 
  
$
836
(c) 
 
$
352
(d) 

 Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securitizations (b)
  
 
75,961
 
  
 
75,961
 
  
 
2,079
 
  
 
2,079
(e) 
 


 

 Residential Mortgage-Backed Securitizations (b)
  
 
44,315
 
  
 
44,315
 
  
 
4,667
 
  
 
4,667
(e) 
 
 
99
(d) 

 Collateralized Debt Obligations
  
 
13
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
1
(c) 
 
 
 
 

 Total
  
$
125,671
 
  
$
122,660
 
  
$
7,583
 
  
$
7,583
  
 
$
451
  
  
























In millions
  
AggregateAssets
 
  
AggregateLiabilities
 
  
PNCRisk ofLoss
 
  
CarryingValue ofAssets
 
 
CarryingValue ofLiabilities
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



 


 

 Tax Credit Investments (a)
  
$
4,086
 
  
$
2,258
 
  
$
782
 
  
$
782
(c) 
 
$
301
(d) 

 Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securitizations (b)
  
 
79,142
 
  
 
79,142
 
  
 
2,068
 
  
 
2,068
(e) 
 


 

 Residential Mortgage-Backed Securitizations (b)
  
 
43,288
 
  
 
43,288
 
  
 
2,199
  
  
 
2,199
(e) 
 
 
7
(d) 

 Collateralized Debt Obligations
  
 
18
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
1
(c) 
 
 
 
 

 Total
  
$
126,534
 
  
$
124,688
 
  
$
5,050
 
  
$
5,050
  
 
$
308
  



(a)
Amounts primarily represent LIHTC investments. Aggregate assets and aggregate liabilities represent estimated balances due to limited availability of financial
information associated with certain acquired partnerships. 


(b)
Amounts reflect involvement with securitization SPEs where PNC transferred to and/or services loans for a SPE and we hold securities issued by that SPE. Asset amounts
equal outstanding liability amounts of the SPEs due to limited availability of SPE financial information. We also invest in other mortgage and asset-backed securities issued by third-party VIEs with which we have no continuing involvement. Further
information on these securities is included in Note 7 Investment Securities and values disclosed represent our maximum exposure to loss for those securities’ holdings. 


(c)
Included in Equity investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(d)
Included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(e)
Included in Trading securities, Investment securities, Other intangible assets, and Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
 
124    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

MARKET STREET 
Market Street Funding LLC (Market Street) is a multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper conduit that is owned by an independent third-party. Market
Street’s activities primarily involve purchasing assets or making loans secured by interests in pools of receivables from US corporations that desire access to the commercial paper market. Market Street funds the purchases of assets or loans by
issuing commercial paper and is supported by pool-specific credit enhancements, liquidity facilities and program-level credit enhancement. Generally, Market Street mitigates its potential interest rate risk by entering into agreements with its
borrowers that reflect interest rates based upon its weighted-average commercial paper cost of funds. During 2011 and 2010, Market Street met all of its funding needs through the issuance of commercial paper. 
PNC Bank, N.A. provides certain administrative services, the program-level credit enhancement and all of the liquidity facilities to Market Street in
exchange for fees negotiated based on market rates. Through these arrangements, PNC Bank, N.A. has the power to direct the activities of the SPE that most significantly affect its economic performance and these arrangements expose PNC Bank, N.A. to
expected losses or residual returns that are significant to Market Street.  The commercial paper obligations at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010 were supported by Market Street’s assets. While PNC Bank, N.A. may be obligated to fund under the $8.3 billion of liquidity facilities for events such as commercial paper market disruptions, borrower bankruptcies,
collateral deficiencies or covenant violations, our credit risk under the liquidity facilities is secondary to the risk of first loss provided by the borrower such as by the over-collateralization of the assets or by another third-party in the form
of deal-specific credit enhancement. Deal-specific credit enhancement that supports the commercial paper issued by Market Street is generally structured to cover a multiple of expected losses for the pool of assets and is sized to generally meet
rating agency standards for comparably structured transactions. In addition, PNC Bank, N.A. would be required to fund $1.5 billion of the liquidity facilities regardless of whether the underlying assets are in default. Market Street creditors have
no direct recourse to PNC Bank, N.A.  PNC Bank, N.A. provides program-level credit enhancement to cover net losses in the amount of 10% of
commitments, excluding explicitly rated AAA/Aaa facilities. PNC Bank, N.A. provides 100% of the enhancement in the form of a cash collateral account funded by a loan facility. This facility expires in June 2016. At December 31, 2011, $857
million was outstanding on this facility. This amount is eliminated in PNC’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as we consolidate Market Street. We are not required to nor have we provided additional financial support to the SPE.

CREDIT CARD SECURITIZATION TRUST
 We are the sponsor of several credit card securitizations facilitated through a trust. This bankruptcy-remote SPE or VIE was
established to purchase credit card receivables from the sponsor and to issue and sell asset-backed securities created by it to independent third-parties. The SPE was financed primarily through the sale of these asset-backed securities. These
transactions were originally structured as a form of liquidity and to afford favorable capital treatment. At December 31, 2011, only Series 2007-1 issued by the SPE was outstanding. Series 2006-1 and 2008-3 were paid off during the first and
second quarters of 2011, respectively.  Our continuing involvement in these securitization transactions consists primarily of holding certain
retained interests and acting as the primary servicer. For the remaining securitization series, our retained interests held are in the form of a pro-rata undivided interest, or sellers’ interest, in the transferred receivables, subordinated
tranches of asset-backed securities, interest-only strips, discount receivables, and subordinated interests in accrued interest and fees in securitized receivables. We have consolidated the SPE as we are deemed the primary beneficiary of the entity
based upon our level of continuing involvement. Our role as primary servicer gives us the power to direct the activities of the SPE that most significantly affect its economic performance and our holding of retained interests gives us the obligation
to absorb or receive expected losses or residual returns that are significant to the SPE. Accordingly, all retained interests held in the credit card SPE are eliminated in consolidation. The underlying assets of the consolidated SPE are restricted
only for payment of the beneficial interest issued by the SPE. We are not required to nor have we provided additional financial support to the SPE. Additionally, creditors of the SPE have no direct recourse to PNC. 
TAX CREDIT INVESTMENTS  We make certain equity investments in various limited partnerships or limited liability companies (LLCs) that sponsor affordable housing projects utilizing the LIHTC pursuant to Sections 42 and 47 of
the Internal Revenue Code. The purpose of these investments is to achieve a satisfactory return on capital, to facilitate the sale of additional affordable housing product offerings and to assist us in achieving goals associated with the Community
Reinvestment Act. The primary activities of the investments include the identification, development and operation of multi-family housing that is leased to qualifying residential tenants. Generally, these types of investments are funded through a
combination of debt and equity. We typically invest in these partnerships as a limited partner or non-managing member. We make similar investments in other types of tax credit investments.  Also, we are a national syndicator of affordable housing equity (together with the investments described above, the LIHTC investments). In these syndication transactions, we create funds in which our
subsidiaries are the general partner  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    125 


Table of Contents


or managing member and sell limited partnership or non-managing member interests to third parties, and in some cases may also purchase a limited partnership or non-managing member interest in the
fund and/or provide mezzanine financing to the fund. The purpose of this business is to generate income from the syndication of these funds, generate servicing fees by managing the funds, and earn tax credits to reduce our tax liability. General
partner or managing member activities include selecting, evaluating, structuring, negotiating, and closing the fund investments in operating limited partnerships or LLCs, as well as oversight of the ongoing operations of the fund portfolio.
 Typically, the general partner or managing member will be the party that has the right to make decisions that will most significantly impact
the economic performance of the entity. However, certain partnership or LLC agreements provide a single limited partner or non-managing member the ability to remove the general partner or managing member without cause. This results in the limited
partner or non-managing member being the party that has the right to make decisions that will most significantly impact the economic performance of the entity. The primary sources of losses and benefits in LIHTC investments are the tax credits, tax
benefits due to passive losses on the investments, and development and operating cash flows. We have consolidated LIHTC investments in which we are the general partner or managing member and have a limited partnership interest or non-managing member
interest that could potentially absorb losses or receive benefits that are significant. The assets are primarily included in Equity investments and Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet with the liabilities classified in Other borrowed
funds, Accrued expenses, and Other liabilities and the third-party investors’ interests included in the Equity section as Noncontrolling interests. Neither creditors nor equity investors in the LIHTC investments have any recourse to our general
credit. The consolidated aggregate assets and liabilities of these LIHTC investments are provided in the Consolidated VIEs table and reflected in the “Other” business segment.  For tax credit investments in which we do not have the right to make decisions that will most significantly impact the economic performance of the entity, we are not the primary beneficiary and thus they
are not consolidated. These investments are disclosed in the Non-Consolidated VIEs table. The table also reflects our maximum exposure to loss. Our maximum exposure to loss is equal to our legally binding equity commitments adjusted for recorded
impairment and partnership results. We use the equity method to account for our investment in these entities with the investments reflected in Equity investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. In


addition, we increase our recognized investments and recognize a liability for all legally binding unfunded equity commitments. These liabilities are reflected in Other liabilities on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet.  RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIZATIONS  In connection with each Agency and Non-Agency
securitization discussed above, we evaluate each SPE utilized in these transactions for consolidation. In performing these assessments, we evaluate our level of continuing involvement in these transactions as the nature of our involvement ultimately
determines whether or not we hold a variable interest and/or are the primary beneficiary of the SPE. Factors we consider in our consolidation assessment include the significance of (1) our role as servicer, (2) our holdings of
mortgage-backed securities issued by the securitization SPE, and (3) the rights of third-party variable interest holders.  Our first step
in our assessment is to determine whether we hold a variable interest in the securitization SPE. We hold a variable interest in an Agency and Non-Agency securitization SPE through our holding of mortgage-backed securities issued by the SPE and/or
our repurchase and recourse obligations. Each SPE in which we hold a variable interest is evaluated to determine whether we are the primary beneficiary of the entity. For Agency securitization transactions, our contractual role as servicer does not
give us the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the SPEs. Thus, we are not the primary beneficiary of these entities. For Non-Agency securitization transactions, we would be the primary
beneficiary to the extent our servicing activities give us the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of the SPE and we hold a more than insignificant variable interest in the entity. At
December 31, 2011, our level of continuing involvement in Non-Agency securitization SPEs did not result in PNC being deemed the primary beneficiary of any of these entities. Details about the Agency and Non-Agency securitization SPEs where we
hold a variable interest and are not the primary beneficiary are included in the table above. Our maximum exposure to loss as a result of our involvement with these SPEs is the carrying value of the mortgage-backed securities, servicing assets, and
servicing advances. Creditors of the securitization SPEs have no recourse to PNC’s assets or general credit.  
 
126    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

NOTE 4 LOANS AND COMMITMENTS TO EXTEND
CREDIT 
Loans outstanding were as follows:  LOANS OUTSTANDING   












In millions
  
December 312011
 
  
December 312010
 

 Commercial lending
  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
65,694
 
  
$
55,177
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
16,204
 
  
 
17,934
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
6,416
 
  
 
6,393
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING
  
 
88,314
 
  
 
79,504
 

 Consumer lending
  



  


 

 Home equity
  
 
33,089
 
  
 
34,226
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
14,469
 
  
 
15,999
 

 Credit card
  
 
3,976
 
  
 
3,920
 

 Other consumer
  
 
19,166
 
  
 
16,946
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
70,700
 
  
 
71,091
 

 Total loans (a) (b)
  
$
159,014
 
  
$
150,595
 



(a)
Net of unearned income, net deferred loan fees, unamortized discounts and premiums, and purchase discounts and premiums totaling $2.3 billion and $2.7 billion at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. 


(b)
Future accretable yield related to purchased impaired loans is not included in loans outstanding. 
We originate interest-only loans to commercial borrowers. This is usually to match our borrowers’ asset conversion to cash expectations (i.e.,
working capital lines, revolvers). These products are standard in the financial services industry and are considered during the underwriting process to mitigate the increased risk that may result in borrowers not being able to make interest and
principal payments when due. We do not believe that these product features create a concentration of credit risk.  In the normal course of
business, we originate or purchase loan products with contractual features, when concentrated, that may increase our exposure as a holder of those loan products. Possible product features that may create a concentration of credit risk would include
a high original or updated LTV ratio, terms that may expose the borrower to future increases in repayments above increases in market interest rates, below-market interest rates and interest-only loans, among others. We also originate home equity
loans and lines of credit that are concentrated in our primary geographic markets.  At December 31, 2011, we pledged $21.8 billion of
commercial loans to the Federal Reserve Bank and $27.7 billion of residential real estate and other loans to the Federal Home Loan Bank as collateral for the contingent ability to borrow, if necessary. The comparable amounts at December 31,
2010 were $12.6 billion and $32.4 billion, respectively. 
Net Unfunded Credit Commitments 
 












In millions
  
December 312011
 
  
December 312010
 

 Commercial and commercial real estate
  
$
64,955
 
  
$
59,256
 

 Home equity lines of credit
  
 
18,317
 
  
 
19,172
 

 Credit card
  
 
16,216
 
  
 
14,725
 

 Other
  
 
3,783
 
  
 
2,652
 

 Total (a)
  
$
103,271
 
  
$
95,805
 



(a)
Excludes standby letters of credit. See Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees for additional information on standby letters of credit. 
Commitments to extend credit represent arrangements to lend funds or provide liquidity subject to specified contractual conditions. At December 31,
2011, commercial commitments reported above exclude $20.2 billion of syndications, assignments and participations, primarily to financial institutions. The comparable amount at December 31, 2010 was $16.7 billion. 
Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates, may require payment of a fee, and contain termination clauses in the event the customer’s credit
quality deteriorates. Based on our historical experience, most commitments expire unfunded, and therefore cash requirements are substantially less than the total commitment. 
NOTE 5 ASSET QUALITY AND ALLOWANCES FOR
LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES AND UNFUNDED LOAN COMMITMENTS AND LETTERS OF
CREDIT 
ASSET QUALITY  We closely monitor economic conditions and loan performance trends to manage and evaluate our exposure to credit risk. Trends in delinquency rates are a key indicator, among other considerations, of
credit risk within the loan portfolios. The measurement of delinquency status is based on the contractual terms of each loan. Loans that are 30 days or more past due in terms of payment are considered delinquent. Loan delinquencies exclude loans
held for sale and purchased impaired loans, but include government insured or guaranteed loans.  The trends in nonperforming assets represent
another key indicator of the potential for future credit losses. Nonperforming assets include nonperforming loans, TDRs, and other real estate owned (OREO) and foreclosed assets, but exclude government insured or guaranteed loans, loans held for
sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option and purchased impaired loans. See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans for further information.  See Note 1 Accounting Policies for additional delinquency, nonperforming, and charge-off information.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    127 


Table of Contents
The following tables display the delinquency status of our loans and our nonperforming assets at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  Age Analysis of Past Due Accruing Loans 
 




































  
  
Accruing
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

In millions
  
Current or LessThan 30 DaysPast Due
 
 
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
 
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
 
90 DaysOr MorePast Due
 
 
Total PastDue (a)
 
 
NonperformingLoans
 
 
PurchasedImpaired
 
 
Total Loans
 

 December 31, 2011
  



 



 



 



 


 
 


 
 


 
 


 

 Commercial
  
$
64,437
 
 
$
122
 
 
$
47
 
 
$
49
 
 
$
218
 
 
$
899
 
 
$
140
 
 
$
65,694
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
14,010
 
 
 
96
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
137
 
 
 
1,345
 
 
 
712
 
 
 
16,204
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
6,367
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
5
 
 



 
 
27
 
 
 
22
 
 


 
 
 
6,416
 

 Home equity
  
 
29,288
 
 
 
173
 
 
 
114
 
 
 
221
 
 
 
508
 
 
 
529
 
 
 
2,764
 
 
 
33,089
 

 Residential real estate (b)
  
 
7,935
 
 
 
302
 
 
 
176
 
 
 
2,281
 
 
 
2,759
 
 
 
726
 
 
 
3,049
 
 
 
14,469
 

 Credit card
  
 
3,857
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
111
 
 
 
8
 
 


 
 
 
3,976
 

 Other consumer (c)
  
 
18,355
 
 
 
265
 
 
 
145
 
 
 
368
 
 
 
778
 
 
 
31
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
19,166
 

 Total
  
$
144,249
 
 
$
1,018
 
 
$
547
 
 
$
2,973
 
 
$
4,538
 
 
$
3,560
 
 
$
6,667
 
 
$
159,014
 

 Percentage of total loans
  
 
90.72
% 
 
 
.64
% 
 
 
.34
% 
 
 
1.87
% 
 
 
2.85
% 
 
 
2.24
% 
 
 
4.19
% 
 
 
100.00
% 

 December 31, 2010
  



 



 



 



 


 
 


 
 


 
 


 

 Commercial
  
$
53,273
 
 
$
251
 
 
$
92
 
 
$
59
 
 
$
402
 
 
$
1,253
 
 
$
249
 
 
$
55,177
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
14,713
 
 
 
128
 
 
 
62
 
 
 
43
 
 
 
233
 
 
 
1,835
 
 
 
1,153
 
 
 
17,934
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
6,276
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
40
 
 
 
77
 
 


 
 
 
6,393
 

 Home equity
  
 
30,334
 
 
 
159
 
 
 
91
 
 
 
174
 
 
 
424
 
 
 
448
 
 
 
3,020
 
 
 
34,226
 

 Residential real estate (b)
  
 
9,150
 
 
 
331
 
 
 
225
 
 
 
2,121
 
 
 
2,677
 
 
 
818
 
 
 
3,354
 
 
 
15,999
 

 Credit card
  
 
3,765
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
32
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
155
 
 


 
 


 
 
 
3,920
 

 Other consumer (c)
  
 
16,312
 
 
 
260
 
 
 
101
 
 
 
234
 
 
 
595
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
16,946
 

 Total
  
$
133,823
 
 
$
1,212
 
 
$
605
 
 
$
2,709
 
 
$
4,526
 
 
$
4,466
 
 
$
7,780
 
 
$
150,595
 

 Percentage of total loans
  
 
88.86
% 
 
 
.81
% 
 
 
.40
% 
 
 
1.80
% 
 
 
3.01
% 
 
 
2.97
% 
 
 
5.16
% 
 
 
100.00
% 



(a)
Past due loan amounts exclude purchased impaired loans as they are considered current loans due to the accretion of interest income. 


(b)
Past due loan amounts at December 31, 2011, include government insured or guaranteed residential real estate mortgages, totaling $.1 billion for 30 to 59 days past
due, $.1 billion for 60 to 89 days past due and $2.1 billion for 90 days or more past due. Past due loan amounts at December 31, 2010, include government insured or guaranteed residential real estate mortgages, totaling $.1 billion for 30 to 59
days past due, $.1 billion for 60 to 89 days past due and $2.0 billion for 90 days or more past due. 


(c)
Past due loan amounts at December 31, 2011, include government insured or guaranteed other consumer loans, totaling $.2 billion for 30 to 59 days past due, $.1
billion for 60 to 89 days past due and $.3 billion for 90 days or more past due. Past due loan amounts at December 31, 2010, include government insured or guaranteed other consumer loans, totaling $.2 billion for 30 to 59 days past due, $.1
billion for 60 to 89 days past due and $.2 billion for 90 days or more past due. 
 
128    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Nonperforming Assets 
 












Dollars in millions
  
December 31,2011
 
 
December 31,2010
 

 Nonperforming loans
  



 


 

 Commercial
  
$
899
 
 
$
1,253
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1,345
 
 
 
1,835
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
22
 
 
 
77
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING
  
 
2,266
 
 
 
3,165
 

 Consumer (a)
  



 


 

 Home equity
  
 
529
 
 
 
448
 

 Residential real estate (b)
  
 
726
 
 
 
818
 

 Credit card (c)
  
 
8
 
 


 

 Other consumer
  
 
31
 
 
 
35
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
1,294
 
 
 
1,301
 

 Total nonperforming loans (d)
  
 
3,560
 
 
 
4,466
 

 OREO and foreclosed assets
  



 


 

 Other real estate owned (OREO) (e)
  
 
561
 
 
 
589
 

 Foreclosed and other assets
  
 
35
 
 
 
68
 

 TOTAL OREO AND FORECLOSED ASSETS
  
 
596
 
 
 
657
 

 Total nonperforming assets
  
$
4,156
 
 
$
5,123
 

 Nonperforming loans to total loans
  
 
2.24
% 
 
 
2.97
% 

 Nonperforming assets to total loans, OREO and foreclosed assets
  
 
2.60
 
 
 
3.39
 

 Nonperforming assets to total assets
  
 
1.53
 
 
 
1.94
 

 Interest on nonperforming loans
  



 


 

 Computed on original terms
  
$
278
 
 
$
329
 

 Recognized prior to nonperforming status
  
 
47
 
 
 
53
 



(a)
Excludes most consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by residential real estate, which are charged off after 120 to 180 days past due and are not placed on
nonperforming status. 


(b)
Effective in 2011, nonperforming residential real estate excludes loans of $61 million accounted for under the fair value option as of December 31, 2011. The
comparable balance at December 31, 2010 was not material. 


(c)
Effective in the second quarter 2011, the commercial nonaccrual policy was applied to certain small business credit card balances. This change resulted in loans being
placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days or more past due. We continue to charge off these loans at 180 days past due. 


(d)
Nonperforming loans do not include government insured or guaranteed loans, loans held for sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option and purchased impaired
loans. 


(e)
Other real estate owned excludes $280 million and $178 million at December 31, 2011, and December 31, 2010, respectively, related to residential real estate
that was acquired by us upon foreclosure of serviced loans because they are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 
 

Nonperforming loans also include loans whose terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a
concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, these loans are considered TDRs. See Note 1 Accounting Policies and the TDR section of this Note 5 for additional information. For the
year ended December 31, 2011, $2.7 billion of loans held for sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option, pooled purchased impaired loans, as well as certain consumer government insured or guaranteed loans which were evaluated for TDR
consideration, are not classified as TDRs.  Total nonperforming loans in the nonperforming assets table above include TDRs of $1.1 billion at
December 31, 2011 and $784 million at December 31, 2010. TDRs returned to  performing (accruing) status totaled $771 million and $543


million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and are excluded from nonperforming loans. These loans have demonstrated a period of at least six months of consecutive
performance under the restructured terms. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, remaining commitments to lend additional funds to debtors in a commercial or consumer TDR were immaterial. 
Net interest income less the provision for credit losses was $7.5 billion for 2011 compared with $6.7 billion for 2010 and $5.2 billion for 2009.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    129 


Table of Contents

Additional Asset Quality Indicators  We have two overall portfolio segments – Commercial Lending and Consumer Lending. Each of these two segments is comprised of one or more loan classes. Classes are characterized by similarities in
initial measurement, risk attributes and the manner in which we monitor and assess credit risk. The commercial segment is comprised of the commercial, commercial real estate, equipment lease financing, and commercial purchased impaired loan classes.
The consumer segment is comprised of the home equity, residential real estate, credit card, other consumer, and consumer purchased impaired loan classes. Asset quality indicators for each of these loan classes are discussed in more detail below.
 Commercial Loan Class 
For commercial loans, we monitor the performance of the borrower in a disciplined and regular manner based upon the level of credit risk inherent in the
loan. To evaluate the level of credit risk, we assign an internal risk rating reflecting the borrower’s PD and LGD. This two-dimensional credit risk rating methodology provides risk granularity in the monitoring process on an ongoing basis. At
least annually, we update PDs based upon market data. Additionally, when statistically significant historical data exists, we update our LGDs. The combination of the PD and LGD ratings assigned to a commercial loan, capturing both the combination of
expectations of default and loss severity in event of default, reflects the relative estimated likelihood of loss for that loan at the reporting date. Loans with better PD and LGD have the lowest likelihood of loss. Conversely, loans with worse PD
and LGD have the highest likelihood of loss. The loss amount also considers EAD, which we update when statistically significant historical data exists.  Based upon the amount of the lending arrangement and our risk rating assessment, we follow a formal schedule of written periodic review. On a quarterly basis, we conduct formal reviews of a market’s
or business unit’s entire loan portfolio, focusing on those loans which we perceive to be of higher risk, based upon PDs and LGDs, or weakening credit quality. If circumstances warrant, it is our practice to review any customer obligation and
its level of credit risk more frequently. We attempt to proactively manage our loans by using various procedures that are customized to the risk of a given loan, including ongoing outreach, contact, and assessment of obligor financial conditions,
collateral inspection and appraisal.  Commercial Real Estate Loan Class  We manage credit risk associated with our commercial real estate projects and commercial mortgage activities similar to commercial loans by analyzing PD and LGD. However, due to


the nature of the collateral, for commercial real estate projects and commercial mortgages, the LGDs tend to be significantly lower than those seen in the commercial class. Additionally, risks
connected with commercial real estate projects and commercial mortgage activities tend to be correlated to the loan structure and collateral location, project progress and business environment. As a result, these attributes are also monitored and
utilized in assessing credit risk.  As with the commercial class, a formal schedule of periodic review is performed to also assess
market/geographic risk and business unit/industry risk. Often as a result of these overviews, more in-depth reviews and increased scrutiny is placed on areas of higher risk, including adverse changes in risk ratings, deteriorating operating trends,
and/or areas that concern management. The goal of these reviews is to assess risk and take actions to mitigate our exposure to such risks. 
Equipment Lease Financing Loan Class  We manage credit risk associated with our equipment lease financing class similar to commercial loans by analyzing PD and LGD.  Based upon the dollar amount of the lease and of the level of credit risk, we follow a formal schedule of periodic review. Generally, this occurs on a quarterly basis, although we have established
practices to review such credit risk more frequently, if circumstances warrant. Our review process entails analysis of the following factors: equipment value/residual value, exposure levels, jurisdiction risk, industry risk, guarantor requirements,
and regulatory compliance.  Commercial Purchased Impaired Loans Class  The credit impacts of purchased impaired loans are primarily determined through the estimation of expected cash flows. Commercial cash flow estimates are influenced by a number of credit related items,
which include but are not limited to: estimated collateral values, receipt of additional collateral, secondary trading prices, circumstances of possible and/or ongoing liquidation, capital availability, business operations and payment patterns.
 We attempt to proactively manage these factors by using various procedures that are customized to the risk of a given loan. These procedures
include a review by our Special Asset Committee (SAC), ongoing outreach, contact, and assessment of obligor financial conditions, collateral inspection and appraisal.  See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans for additional information.  
 
130    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Commercial Lending Asset Quality Indicators (a)
 
























 
  
  
 
  
Criticized Commercial Loans
 
  
  
 

In millions
  
 Pass
Rated (b)
 
  
SpecialMention (c)
 
  
Substandard (d)
 
  
Doubtful (e)
 
  
TotalLoans
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
60,649
 
  
$
1,831
 
  
$
2,817
 
  
$
257
 
  
$
65,554
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
11,478
 
  
 
791
 
  
 
2,823
 
  
 
400
 
  
 
15,492
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
6,210
 
  
 
48
 
  
 
153
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
6,416
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
107
 
  
 
35
 
  
 
542
 
  
 
168
 
  
 
852
 

 Total commercial lending (f)
  
$
78,444
 
  
$
2,705
 
  
$
6,335
 
  
$
830
 
  
$
88,314
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
48,556
 
  
$
1,926
 
  
$
3,883
 
  
$
563
 
  
$
54,928
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
11,014
 
  
 
1,289
 
  
 
3,914
 
  
 
564
 
  
 
16,781
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
6,121
 
  
 
64
 
  
 
162
 
  
 
46
 
  
 
6,393
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
106
 
  
 
35
 
  
 
883
 
  
 
378
 
  
 
1,402
 

 Total commercial lending (f)
  
$
65,797
 
  
$
3,314
 
  
$
8,842
 
  
$
1,551
 
  
$
79,504
 



(a)
Based upon PDs and LGDs. 


(b)
Pass Rated loans include loans not classified as “Special Mention”, “Substandard”, or “Doubtful”. 


(c)
Special Mention rated loans have a potential weakness that deserves management’s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in
deterioration of repayment prospects at some future date. These loans do not expose us to sufficient risk to warrant a more adverse classification at this time. 


(d)
Substandard rated loans have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the collection or liquidation of debt. They are characterized by the distinct
possibility that we will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. 


(e)
Doubtful rated loans possess all the inherent weaknesses of a Substandard loan with the additional characteristics that the weakness makes collection or liquidation in
full improbable due to existing facts, conditions, and values. 


(f)
Loans are included above based on their contractual terms as “Pass”, “Special Mention”, “Substandard” or “Doubtful”.

 

Home Equity and Residential Real Estate Loan Classes 
We use several credit quality indicators, including delinquency information, nonperforming loan information, updated credit scores, originated and updated
LTV ratios, and geography, to monitor and manage credit risk within the home equity and residential real estate loan classes. We evaluate mortgage loan performance by source originators and loan servicers. A summary of asset quality indicators
follows:  Delinquency/Delinquency Rates: We monitor trending of delinquency/delinquency rates for home equity and residential real
estate loans. See the Asset Quality section of this Note 5 for additional information.  Nonperforming Loans: We monitor trending of
nonperforming loans for home equity and residential real estate loans. See the Asset Quality section of this Note 5 for additional information. 
Credit Scores: We use a national third-party provider to update FICO credit scores for home equity loans and lines of credit and residential real
estate loans on at least a quarterly basis. The updated scores are incorporated into a series of credit management reports, which are utilized to monitor the risk in the loan classes.

LTV (inclusive of combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratios for second lien positions): At least
annually, we update the property values of real estate collateral and calculate an updated LTV ratio. For open-end credit lines secured by real estate in regions experiencing significant declines in property values, more frequent valuations may
occur. We examine LTV migration and stratify LTV into categories to monitor the risk in the loan classes.  Historically, we used, and we
continue to use, a combination of original LTV and updated LTV for internal risk management reporting and risk management purposes (e.g., line management, loss mitigation strategies). In addition to the fact that estimated property values by their
nature are estimates, given certain data limitations it is important to note that updated LTVs may be based upon management’s assumptions (e.g., if an updated LTV is not provided by the third-party service provider, home price index (HPI)
changes will be incorporated in arriving at management’s estimate of updated LTV).  Geography: Geographic concentrations are
monitored to evaluate and manage exposures. Loan purchase programs are sensitive to, and focused within, certain regions to manage geographic exposures and associated risks.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    131 


Table of Contents
 
A combination of updated FICO scores, originated and updated LTV ratios and geographic location assigned to
home equity loans and lines of credit and residential real estate loans are used to monitor the risk in the loan classes. Loans with higher FICO scores and lower LTVs tend to have a lower level of risk. Conversely, loans with lower FICO scores,
higher LTVs, and in certain geographic locations tend to have a higher level of risk.  In the table below, we provide information on home
equity and residential real estate outstanding balances and recorded investment. See Note 4 Loans and Commitments to Extend Credit for additional information.

Home Equity and Residential Real Estate Balances 
 












In millions
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Home equity and residential real estate loans - excluding purchased impaired loans (a)
  
$
41,014
  
 
$
42,298
  

 Home equity and residential real estate loans - purchased impaired loans (a)
  
 
6,533
 
 
 
7,924
 

 Government insured or guaranteed residential real estate mortgages (a)
  
 
2,884
 
 
 
2,488
  

 Purchase accounting, deferred fees and other accounting adjustments
  
 
(2,873
) 
 
 
(2,485
) 

 Total home equity and residential real estate loans (b)
  
$
47,558
 
 
$
50,225
  



(a)
Represents outstanding balance. 


(b)
Represents recorded investment.
 
  Consumer Real Estate Secured
Asset Quality Indicators – Excluding Purchased Impaired Loans (a)   




















 
  
Home Equity (b)
 
  
Residential RealEstate (b)
 
  
  
 

December 31, 2011 – in millions
  
1st Liens
 
  
2nd Liens
 
  
1st Liens
 
  
Total (b)
 

 Current estimated LTV ratios (c) (d)
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than or equal to 125% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
$
1,448
 
  
$
3,488
 
  
$
1,845
 
  
$
6,781
 

 Less than or equal to 660 (e) (f)
  
 
213
 
  
 
713
 
  
 
463
 
  
 
1,389
 

 Missing FICO
  
 
494
 
  
 
135
 
  
 
289
 
  
 
918
 




 
 

 Greater than or equal to 100% to less than 125% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
1,017
 
  
 
2,864
 
  
 
1,336
 
  
 
5,217
 

 Less than or equal to 660 (e) (f)
  
 
172
 
  
 
517
 
  
 
349
 
  
 
1,038
 

 Missing FICO
  
 
186
 
  
 
87
 
  
 
53
 
  
 
326
 




 
 

 Greater than or equal to 90% to less than 100% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
687
 
  
 
1,350
 
  
 
760
  
  
 
2,797
  

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
111
 
  
 
205
 
  
 
200
 
  
 
516
 

 Missing FICO
  
 
3
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
12
 
  
 
17
 




 
 

 Less than 90% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
7,190
 
  
 
7,888
 
  
 
3,152
 
  
 
18,230
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
1,080
 
  
 
1,102
 
  
 
799
 
  
 
2,981
 

 Missing FICO
  
 
14
 
  
 
13
 
  
 
32
 
  
 
59
  




 
 

 Missing LTV and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
9
 
  
 
2
 
  



  
 
11
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
2
 
  
 
1
 
  



  
 
3
 

 Missing FICO
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
731
  
  
 
731
  

 Total Home Equity and Residential Real Estate Loans
  
$
12,626
 
  
$
18,367
  
  
$
10,021
  
  
$
41,014
  
  


(a)
This table excludes purchased impaired loans of approximately $6.5 billion in outstanding balances (See the Consumer Real Estate Secured Asset Quality Indicators –
Purchased Impaired Loans table below for additional information), government insured or guaranteed residential real estate mortgages of approximately $2.9 billion, and loans held for sale. 


(b)
Amounts shown represent outstanding balance. 


(c)
Based upon updated LTV (inclusive of CLTV for second lien positions). 


(d)
Updated LTV (inclusive of CLTV for second lien positions) are estimated using modeled property values. These ratios are updated at least annually. The related estimates
and inputs are based upon an approach that uses a combination of third-party automated valuation models (AVMs), HPI indices, property location, internal and external balance information, origination data and management assumptions. In cases where we
are in an originated second lien position, we generally utilize origination balances provided by a third-party which do not include an amortization assumption when calculating updated LTV. Accordingly, the results of these calculations do not
represent actual appraised loan level collateral or updated LTV based upon a current first lien balance, and as such, are necessarily imprecise and subject to change as we enhance our methodology. 


(e)
Higher risk loans are defined as loans with both an updated FICO score of less than or equal to 660 and an updated LTV greater than or equal to 100%.



(f)
The following states have the highest percentage of higher risk loans: Pennsylvania 13%, New Jersey 13%, Illinois 10%, Ohio 9%, Florida 8%, California 8%, Maryland 5%,
and Michigan 5%. The remainder of the states have lower than 3% of the high risk loans individually, and collectively they represent approximately 29% of the higher risk loans. 
 
132    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Consumer Real Estate Secured Asset Quality Indicators – Purchased Impaired Loans
  




















 
  
Home Equity (a) (b)
 
  
Residential RealEstate (a) (b)
 
  
  
 

December 31, 2011 - in millions
  
1st Liens (c)
 
  
2nd Liens (c)
 
  
1st Liens (c)
 
  
Total (a)
 

 Current estimated LTV ratios (d) (e)
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than or equal to 125% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
$
21
 
  
$
871
 
  
$
361
 
  
$
1,253
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
28
 
  
 
532
 
  
 
681
 
  
 
1,241
 

 Missing FICO
  



  
 
24
 
  
 
38
 
  
 
62
 




 
 

 Greater than or equal to 100% to less than 125% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
19
 
  
 
490
 
  
 
229
 
  
 
738
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
22
 
  
 
272
 
  
 
375
 
  
 
669
 

 Missing FICO
  



  
 
19
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
26
 




 
 

 Greater than or equal to 90% to less than 100% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
10
 
  
 
118
 
  
 
116
 
  
 
244
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
13
 
  
 
69
 
  
 
208
 
  
 
290
 

 Missing FICO
  



  
 
5
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
9
 




 
 

 Less than 90% and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  
 
52
 
  
 
398
 
  
 
404
 
  
 
854
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  
 
102
  
  
 
322
 
  
 
679
 
  
 
1,103
  

 Missing FICO
  
 
1
  
  
 
16
 
  
 
22
 
  
 
39
 




 
 

 Missing LTV and updated FICO scores:
  



  



  



  


 

 Greater than 660
  



  



  
 
1
 
  
 
1
 

 Less than or equal to 660
  



  



  
 
1
 
  
 
1
 

 Missing FICO
  
 
 
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
2
  
  
 
3
 

 Total Home Equity and Residential Real Estate Loans
  
$
268
 
  
$
3,137
 
  
$
3,128
 
  
$
6,533
 
  


(a)
Amounts shown represent outstanding balance. See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans for additional information. 


(b)
For the estimate of cash flows utilized in our purchased impaired loan accounting, other assumptions and estimates are made, including amortization of first lien
balances, pre-payment rates, etc., which are not reflected in this table. 


(c)
The following states have the highest percentage of loans: California 22%, Florida 13%, Illinois 12%, Ohio 9%, Michigan 5% and New York 4%. None of the remaining states
have above 3% concentration of purchased impaired, however, on a collective basis the remaining states make up 35% of the purchased impaired portfolio. 


(d)
Based upon updated LTV (inclusive of CLTV for second lien positions). 


(e)
Updated LTV (inclusive of CLTV for second lien positions) are estimated using modeled property values. These ratios are updated at least annually. The related estimates
and inputs are based upon an approach that uses a combination of third-party AVMs, HPI indices, property location, internal and external balance information, origination data and management assumptions. In cases where we are in an originated second
lien position, we generally utilize origination balances provided by a third-party which do not include an amortization assumption when calculating updated LTV. Accordingly, the results of these calculations do not represent actual appraised loan
level collateral or updated LTV based upon a current first lien balance, and as such, are necessarily imprecise and subject to change as we enhance our methodology.  Throughout 2011 management continued to refine its process for updating LTVs, including the acquisition of additional third-party data to determine updated LTVs. Prior to the fourth quarter 2011, updated
LTV information was not readily available for a portion of the home equity and residential real estate loan classes and, therefore, management relied on a combination of original and updated LTVs for internal and external reporting of credit quality
indicators for the home equity and residential real estate loan classes as set forth in the 2010 Consumer Real Estate Secured Asset Quality Indicators table (the “2010 Table”).  The 2011 Consumer Real Estate Secured Asset Quality Indicators – Excluding Purchased Impaired Loans table (the “2011 Table”) and Consumer Real Estate Secured Asset Quality Indicators –
Purchased Impaired Loans table (the “2011 Purchased Impaired Table” and together with the 2011 Table, the “2011 Tables”) are not directly comparable to the 2010 Table. Due to our 2011 process enhancements and availability of
updated LTVs at December 31, 2011, we have defined higher risk loans in the 2011 Table based upon an updated LTV of 100% or greater, whereas higher risk loans in the 2010 Table were based a combination of original LTV of 90% or greater and updated
LTV of 90% or greater. We have also provided a separate 2011 Purchased Impaired Table for our purchased impaired loans, whereas purchased impaired loans were included in our 2010 Table. Additionally, please see the Home Equity and Residential Real
Estate Balances table for a reconciliation of outstanding balances to recorded investment utilized in the 2011 Tables and 2010 Table, respectively. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    133 


Table of Contents
Consumer Real Estate Secured Asset Quality Indicators 
 
























 
  
Higher Risk Loans (a)
 
  
All Other Loans
 
  
Home Equity andResidential RealEstate Loans
 

December 31, 2010 – dollars in millions
  
Amount
 
  
% of TotalLoans
 
  
Amount
 
  
% of TotalLoans
 
  
Recorded InvestmentAmount
 

 Home equity (b)
  
$
1,203
 
  
 
4
% 
  
$
33,023
 
  
 
96
% 
  
$
34,226
 

 Residential real estate (c)
  
 
671
 
  
 
4
%
  
 
15,328
 
  
 
96
%
  
 
15,999
 

 Total (d)
  
$
1,874
 
  
 
4
% 
  
$
48,351
 
  
 
96
% 
  
$
50,225
 
  


(a)
At December 31, 2010, higher risk home equity loans are based upon updated FICO and original LTV while residential real estate higher risk loans are based upon
updated FICO and a combination of original and updated LTV. Higher risk loans exclude loans held for sale and government insured or guaranteed loans. 


(b)
We consider loans to be higher risk with an updated FICO of less than or equal to 660 and an original or updated LTV greater than or equal to 90%. The majority of the
December 31, 2010 balance related to higher risk home equity loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Pennsylvania 28%, Ohio 13%, New Jersey 11%, Illinois 7%, Michigan 6%, and Kentucky 5%. All other states, none of
which comprise more than 4%, make up the remainder of the balance. 


(c)
We consider loans to be higher risk with an updated FICO of less than or equal to 660 and an original or updated LTV greater than or equal to 90%. The majority of the
December 31, 2010 balance related to higher risk residential real estate loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: California 23%, Florida 11%, Illinois 11%, and Maryland 8%. All other states, none of which comprise
more than 5%, make up the remainder of the balance. 


(d)
Total loans include purchased impaired loans of $6.4 billion at December 31, 2010. 
 

Credit Card and Other Consumer Loan Classes 
We monitor a variety of asset quality information in the management of the credit card and other consumer loan classes. Other consumer loan classes
include education, automobile, and other secured and unsecured lines and loans. Along with the trending of delinquencies and losses for each class, FICO credit score updates are generally obtained on a monthly basis, as well as a variety of credit
bureau attributes. Loans with high FICO scores tend to have a lower likelihood of loss. Conversely, loans with low FICO scores tend to have a higher likelihood of loss.

Consumer Purchased Impaired Loans Class 
Estimates of the expected cash flows primarily determine the credit impacts of consumer purchased impaired loans. Consumer cash flow estimates are
influenced by a number of credit related items, which include, but are not limited to: estimated real estate values, payment patterns, updated FICO scores, the current economic environment, updated LTV ratios and the date of origination. These key
factors are monitored to help ensure that concentrations of risk are mitigated and cash flows are maximized.  
  See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans
for additional information.  Credit Card and Other Consumer Loan Classes Asset Quality Indicators 
 




















 
  
Credit Card (a)
 
 
Other Consumer (b)
 

Dollars in millions
  
Amount
 
  
% of Total LoansUsing FICOCredit Metric
 
 
Amount
 
  
% of Total LoansUsing FICOCredit Metric
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



 



  


 

 FICO score greater than 719
  
$
2,016
 
  
 
51
% 
 
$
5,556
  
  
 
61
% 

 650 to 719
  
 
1,100
 
  
 
28
 
 
 
2,125
 
  
 
23
 

 620 to 649
  
 
184
 
  
 
5
 
 
 
370
 
  
 
4
 

 Less than 620
  
 
284
 
  
 
7
 
 
 
548
 
  
 
6
 

 No FICO score available or required (c)
  
 
392
 
  
 
9
 
 
 
574
 
  
 
6
 

 Total loans using FICO credit metric
  
 
3,976
 
  
 
100
% 
 
 
9,173
 
  
 
100
% 

 Consumer loans using other internal credit metrics (b)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
9,993
 
  
 
 
 

 Total loan balance
  
$
3,976
 
  
 
 
 
 
$
19,166
 
  
 
 
 

 Weighted-average current FICO score (d)
  
 
 
 
  
 
723
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
739
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



 



  


 

 FICO score greater than 719
  
$
1,895
 
  
 
48
% 
 
$
4,135
 
  
 
58
% 

 650 to 719
  
 
1,149
 
  
 
29
 
 
 
1,984
 
  
 
28
 

 620 to 649
  
 
183
 
  
 
5
 
 
 
295
 
  
 
4
 

 Less than 620
  
 
424
 
  
 
11
 
 
 
652
 
  
 
9
 

 No FICO score available or required (c)
  
 
269
 
  
 
7
 
 
 
81
 
  
 
1
 

 Total loans using FICO credit metric
  
 
3,920
 
  
 
100
% 
 
 
7,147
 
  
 
100
% 

 Consumer loans using other internal credit metrics (b)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
9,799
 
  
 
 
 

 Total loan balance
  
$
3,920
 
  
 
 
 
 
$
16,946
 
  
 
 
 

 Weighted-average current FICO score (d)
  
 
 
 
  
 
709
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
713
 

 
134    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


(a)
At December 31, 2011, we had $49 million of credit card loans that are higher risk (i.e., loans with both updated FICO scores less than 660 and in late stage (90+
days) delinquency status). The majority of the December 31, 2011 balance related to higher risk credit card loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Ohio 20%, Michigan 14%, Pennsylvania 13%, Illinois 7%, Indiana 7%,
Florida 6%, and Kentucky 5%. All other states, none of which comprise more than 4%, make up the remainder of the balance. At December 31, 2010, we had $70 million of credit card loans that are higher risk. The majority of the December 31,
2010 balance related to higher risk credit card loans is geographically distributed throughout the following areas: Ohio 20%, Michigan 14%, Pennsylvania 14%, Illinois 8%, and Indiana 7%. All other states, none of which comprise more than 5%, make up
the remainder of the balance. 


(b)
Other consumer loans for which updated FICO scores are used as an asset quality indicator include non-government guaranteed or insured education loans, automobile loans
and other secured and unsecured lines and loans. Other consumer loans for which other internal credit metrics are used as an asset quality indicator include primarily government guaranteed or insured education loans, as well as consumer loans to
high net worth individuals. Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. 


(c)
Credit card loans and other consumer loans with no FICO score available or required refers to new accounts issued to borrowers with limited credit history, accounts for
which we cannot obtain an updated FICO (e.g., recent profile changes), cards issued with a business name, and/or cards secured by collateral. Management proactively assesses the risk and size of this loan portfolio and, when necessary, takes actions
to mitigate the credit risk. 


(d)
Weighted-average updated FICO score excludes accounts with no FICO score available or required. 
 

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRS)
 A TDR is a loan whose terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial
difficulties. TDRs typically result from our loss mitigation activities and include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, postponement/reduction of scheduled amortization, and extensions, which are intended to minimize economic loss and to avoid
foreclosure or repossession of collateral. In those situations where principal is forgiven, the amount of such principal forgiveness is immediately charged off.  Some TDRs may not ultimately result in the full collection of principal and interest, as restructured, and result in potential incremental losses. These potential incremental losses have been factored
into our overall ALLL estimate. The level of any subsequent defaults will likely be affected by future economic conditions. Once a loan becomes a TDR, it will continue to be reported as a TDR until it is ultimately repaid in full, the collateral is
foreclosed upon, or it is fully charged off. We held specific reserves in the ALLL of $580 million at December 31, 2011 and $509 million at December 31, 2010 for the total TDR portfolio. 
Summary of Troubled Debt Restructurings   












In millions
  
Dec. 312011
 
  
Dec. 312010
 

 Total consumer lending
  
$
1,798
 
  
$
1,422
 

 Total commercial lending
  
 
405
 
  
 
236
 

 Total TDRs
  
$
2,203
 
  
$
1,658
 

 Nonperforming
  
$
1,141
 
  
$
784
 

 Accruing (a)
  
 
771
 
  
 
543
 

 Credit card (b)
  
 
291
 
  
 
331
 

 Total TDRs
  
$
2,203
 
  
$
1,658
 
  


(a)
Accruing loans have demonstrated a period of at least six months of performance under the restructured terms and are excluded from nonperforming loans.



(b)
Includes credit cards and certain small business and consumer credit agreements whose terms have been restructured and are TDRs. However, since our policy is to exempt
these loans from being placed on nonaccrual status as permitted by regulatory guidance as generally these loans are directly charged off in the period that they become 180 days past due, these loans are excluded from nonperforming loans.
 The table below quantifies the number of loans that were classified as TDRs during the year ended December 31, 2011.


The change in the recorded investments as a result of the TDR is also provided below. 
Financial Impact of TDRs (a)  
















 During the year endedDecember 31, 2011
Dollars in millions
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
Pre-TDRRecordedInvestment (b)
 
 
Post-TDRRecordedInvestment (c)
 

 Commercial lending
 



 



 


 

 Commercial
 
 
599
  
 
$
129
 
 
$
112
 

 Commercial real estate
 
 
78
  
 
 
286
  
 
 
260
 

 Equipment lease financing (d)
 
 
2
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING
 
 
679
  
 
 
416
  
 
 
372
  

 Consumer lending
 



 



 


 

 Home equity
 
 
4,013
 
 
 
321
 
 
 
320
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
1,590
 
 
 
376
 
 
 
351
 

 Credit card
 
 
12,564
 
 
 
92
 
 
 
92
  

 Other consumer
 
 
472
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
13
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
 
 
18,639
 
 
 
802
 
 
 
776
  

 Total TDRs
 
 
19,318
  
 
$
1,218
  
 
$
1,148
  
  


(a)
Impact of partial charge offs at TDR date are included in this table. 


(b)
Represents the recorded investment of the loans as of the quarter end prior to the TDR designation, and excludes immaterial amounts of accrued interest receivable.



(c)
Represents the recorded investment of the TDRs as of the quarter end the TDR occurs, and excludes immaterial amounts of accrued interest receivable.



(d)
Post-TDR Recorded Investment amount totaled less than $1 million.  TDRs may result in charge-offs and interest income not being recognized. At or around the time of modification, there was approximately $26 million in recorded investment of commercial TDRs and
approximately $15 million in recorded investment of commercial real estate TDRs charged off during the year ended December 31, 2011. For residential real estate, approximately $29 million in recorded investment was charged off during the year ended
December 31, 2011 related to modifications in which principal was partially deferred and deemed uncollectible. Charge offs around the time of modification related to home equity, credit card, and other consumer TDR portfolios were immaterial
for the period.  A financial effect of rate reduction TDRs is interest income not recognized. Interest income not recognized that otherwise
would have been earned in the year ended December 31, 2011 related to both commercial TDRs and consumer TDRs is not material.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    135 


Table of Contents

The table below provides additional TDR information. The Principal Forgiveness category includes principal
forgiveness and accrued interest forgiveness. These types of TDRs result in a write down of the recorded investment and a charge-off if such action has not already taken place. The Rate Reduction TDRs category includes reduced interest rate and
interest deferral. The TDRs within this category would result in reductions to future interest income. The Other TDR category primarily includes postponement/reduction of scheduled amortization, as well as contractual extensions.

In some cases, there have been multiple concessions granted on one loan. When there have been multiple
concessions granted, the principal forgiveness TDR was prioritized for purposes of determining the inclusion in the table below. For example, if there is principal forgiveness in conjunction with lower interest rate and postponement of amortization,
the type of concession will be reported as Principal Forgiveness. Second in priority would be rate reduction. For example, if there is an interest rate reduction in conjunction with postponement of amortization, the type of concession will be
reported as a Rate Reduction.  
  TDRs by Type
  




















 
  
Post-TDR Recorded Investment
 

 During the year ended December 31, 2011
Dollars in millions
  
 Principal
Forgiveness
 
  
 Rate
Reduction
 
  
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Commercial lending
  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
19
 
  
$
33
 
  
$
60
  
  
$
112
  

 Commercial real estate
  
 
83
 
  
 
123
 
  
 
54
 
  
 
260
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING (a)
  
 
102
 
  
 
156
 
  
 
114
  
  
 
372
  

 Consumer lending
  



  



  



  


 

 Home equity
  



  
 
281
 
  
 
39
 
  
 
320
 

 Residential real estate
  



  
 
236
 
  
 
115
 
  
 
351
 

 Credit card
  



  
 
92
 
  



  
 
92
 

 Other consumer
  
 
 
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
12
 
  
 
13
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
 
 
  
 
610
 
  
 
166
 
  
 
776
 

 Total TDRs
  
$
102
 
  
$
766
 
  
$
280
  
  
$
1,148
  
  


(a)
Excludes less than $1 million of Equipment lease financing in Other TDRs. 
 

After a loan is determined to be a TDR, we continue to track its performance under its most recent
restructured terms. In the table below, we consider a TDR to have subsequently defaulted when it becomes 60 days past due after the most recent date the loan was restructured. The following table presents the recorded investment of loans that were
classified as TDRs during a 12-month period within 2010 and 2011 and subsequently defaulted during 2011.  TDRs which have Subsequently
Defaulted   












 During the year ended December 31, 2011
Dollars in millions
  

Number of
Contracts
 
  
 Recorded
Investment
 

 Commercial lending
  



  


 

 Commercial
  
 
37
  
  
$
57
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
41
  
  
 
136
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING (a)
  
 
78
  
  
 
193
 

 Consumer lending
  



  


 

 Home equity
  
 
1,166
 
  
 
90
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
421
 
  
 
93
 

 Credit card
  
 
38,256
 
  
 
28
 

 Other consumer
  
 
47
 
  
 
1
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
39,890
 
  
 
212
 

 Total TDRs
  
 
39,968
  
  
$
405
 



(a)
Amount for Equipment lease financing totaled less than $1 million.

The impact to the ALLL for commercial loan TDRs is the effect of moving to the specific reserve methodology
from the quantitative reserve methodology for those loans that were not already put on nonaccrual status. There is an impact to the ALLL as a result of the concession made, which generally results in the expectation of fewer future cash flows. The
decline in expected cash flows, as well as the application of a present value discount rate, when compared to the recorded investment, results in a charge-off or increased ALLL. Subsequent defaults of commercial loan TDRs do not have a significant
impact on the ALLL as these TDRs are individually evaluated under the specific reserve methodology.  For consumer TDRs the ALLL is calculated
using a discounted cash flow model, which leverages subsequent default, prepayment, and severity rate assumptions based upon historically observed data. Similar to the commercial loan specific reserve methodology, the reduced expected cash flows
resulting from the concessions granted impact the consumer ALLL. The decline in expected cash flows, as well as the application of a present value discount rate, when compared to the recorded investment, results in a charge-off or increased ALLL.
 
 
136    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

ALLOWANCES FOR LOAN AND
LEASE LOSSES AND UNFUNDED LOAN COMMITMENTS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT 
We maintain the ALLL and the Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit at levels that we believe to be appropriate to absorb estimated
probable credit losses incurred in the portfolios as of the balance sheet date. We use the two main portfolio segments – Commercial Lending and Consumer Lending – and we develop and document the ALLL under separate methodologies for each
of these segments as further discussed and presented below.  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses Components 
For all loans, except purchased impaired loans, the ALLL is the sum of three components: (1) asset specific/individual impaired reserves,
(2) quantitative (formulaic or pooled) reserves, and (3) qualitative (judgmental) reserves. See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans for additional ALLL information. While we make allocations to specific loans and pools of loans, the total
reserve is available for all loan and lease losses. Although quantitative modeling factors as discussed below are updated as the financial strength of the borrower and overall economic conditions change, there were no significant changes to our ALLL
methodology during 2011.  Asset Specific/Individual Component  Commercial nonperforming loans and all TDRs are considered impaired and are allocated a specific reserve. See Note 1 Accounting Policies for additional information. 
Commercial Lending Quantitative Component  The estimates of the quantitative component of ALLL for incurred losses within the commercial lending portfolio segment are determined through statistical loss modeling utilizing PD, LGD, and EAD. Based
upon loan risk ratings we assign PDs and LGDs. Each of these statistical parameters is determined based on historical data, including market data. PD is influenced by such factors as liquidity, industry, obligor financial structure, access to
capital, and cash flow. LGD is influenced by collateral type, original and/or updated LTV, and guarantees by related parties.  Consumer
Lending Quantitative Component  Quantitative estimates within the consumer lending portfolio segment are calculated using a roll-rate
model based on statistical relationships, calculated from historical data that


estimate the movement of loan outstandings through the various stages of delinquency and ultimately charge-off.  Qualitative Component  While our reserve methodologies strive to reflect all
relevant risk factors, there continues to be uncertainty associated with, but not limited to, potential imprecision in the estimation process due to the inherent time lag of obtaining information and normal variations between estimates and actual
outcomes. We provide additional reserves that are designed to provide coverage for losses attributable to such risks. The ALLL also includes factors which may not be directly measured in the determination of specific or pooled reserves. Such
qualitative factors include: 


 
•
 
 Industry concentrations and conditions, 


 
•
 
 Recent credit quality trends, 


 
•
 
 Recent loss experience in particular portfolios, 


 
•
 
 Recent macro economic factors, 


 
•
 
 Changes in risk selection and underwriting standards, and 


 
•
 
 Timing of available information.  Allowance for Purchased Impaired Loans  ALLL for purchased impaired loans is
determined in accordance with ASC 310-30 by comparing the net present value of the cash flows expected to be collected to the Recorded Investment for a given loan (or pool of loans). In cases where the net present value of expected cash flows is
lower than Recorded Investment, ALLL is established. Cash flows expected to be collected represent management’s best estimate of the cash flows expected over the life of a loan (or pool of loans). For large balance commercial loans, cash flows
are separately estimated and compared to the Recorded Investment at the loan level. For smaller balance pooled loans, cash flows are estimated using cash flow models and compared at the risk pool level, which was defined at acquisition based on risk
characteristics of the loan. Our cash flow models use loan data including, but not limited to, delinquency status of the loan, updated borrower FICO credit scores, geographic information, historical loss experience, and updated LTVs, as well as best
estimates for unemployment rates, home prices and other economic factors to determine estimated cash flows.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    137 


Table of Contents
Rollforward of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Associated Loan Data 
 
















In millions
  
CommercialLending
 
 
ConsumerLending
 
 
Total
 

 December 31, 2011
  



 



 


 

 ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES
  



 



 


 

 January 1
  
$
2,567
 
 
$
2,320
 
 
$
4,887
 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(1,199
) 
 
 
(1,065
) 
 
 
(2,264
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
487
 
 
 
138
 
 
 
625
 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(712
) 
 
 
(927
) 
 
 
(1,639
) 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
177
 
 
 
975
 
 
 
1,152
 

 Net change in allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit
  
 
(36
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
(52
) 

 Other
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1
) 

 December 31
  
$
1,995
 
 
$
2,352
 
 
$
4,347
 

 TDRs individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
39
 
 
$
541
 
 
$
580
 

 Other loans individually evaluated for impairment
  
 
520
 
 



 
 
520
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
1,207
 
 
 
1,042
 
 
 
2,249
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
229
 
 
 
769
 
 
 
998
 

 December 31
  
$
1,995
 
 
$
2,352
 
 
$
4,347
 

 LOAN PORTFOLIO
  



 



 


 

 TDRs individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
405
 
 
$
1,798
 
 
$
2,203
 

 Other loans individually evaluated for impairment
  
 
1,890
 
 



 
 
1,890
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
85,167
 
 
 
63,087
 
 
 
148,254
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
852
 
 
 
5,815
 
 
 
6,667
 

 December 31
  
$
88,314
 
 
$
70,700
 
 
$
159,014
 

 Portfolio segment ALLL as a percentage of total ALLL
  
 
45.89
% 
 
 
54.11
% 
 
 
100.00
% 

 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses to total loans
  
 
2.26
% 
 
 
3.33
% 
 
 
2.73
% 

 December 31, 2010
  



 



 


 

 ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES
  



 



 


 

 January 1
  
$
3,345
 
 
$
1,727
 
 
$
5,072
 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(2,017
) 
 
 
(1,475
) 
 
 
(3,492
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
427
 
 
 
129
 
 
 
556
 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(1,590
) 
 
 
(1,346
) 
 
 
(2,936
) 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
704
 
 
 
1,798
 
 
 
2,502
 

 Adoption of ASU 2009-17, Consolidations
  



 
 
141
 
 
 
141
 

 Net change in allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of
credit
  
 
108
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
108
 

 December 31
  
$
2,567
 
 
$
2,320
 
 
$
4,887
 

 TDRs individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
24
 
 
$
485
 
 
$
509
 

 Other loans individually evaluated for impairment
  
 
835
 
 



 
 
835
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
1,419
 
 
 
1,227
 
 
 
2,646
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
289
 
 
 
608
 
 
 
897
 

 December 31
  
$
2,567
 
 
$
2,320
 
 
$
4,887
 

 LOAN PORTFOLIO
  



 



 


 

 TDRs individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
200
 
 
$
1,422
 
 
$
1,622
 

 Other loans individually evaluated for impairment
  
 
2,888
 
 



 
 
2,888
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
75,014
 
 
 
63,291
 
 
 
138,305
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
1,402
 
 
 
6,378
 
 
 
7,780
 

 December 31
  
$
79,504
 
 
$
71,091
 
 
$
150,595
 

 Portfolio segment ALLL as a percentage of total ALLL
  
 
52.53
% 
 
 
47.47
% 
 
 
100.00
% 

 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses to total loans
  
 
3.23
% 
 
 
3.26
% 
 
 
3.25
% 
 
138    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
















In millions
  
CommercialLending
 
 
ConsumerLending
 
 
Total
 

 December 31, 2009
  



 



 


 

 ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES
  



 



 


 

 January 1
  
$
2,680
 
 
$
1,237
 
 
$
3,917
 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(1,935
) 
 
 
(1,220
) 
 
 
(3,155
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
246
 
 
 
198
 
 
 
444
 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(1,689
) 
 
 
(1,022
) 
 
 
(2,711
) 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
2,418
 
 
 
1,512
 
 
 
3,930
 

 Acquired allowance – National City
  
 
(112
) 
 



 
 
(112
) 

 Net change in allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of
credit
  
 
48
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
48
 

 December 31
  
$
3,345
 
 
$
1,727
 
 
$
5,072
 

 Other loans individually evaluated for impairment
  
$
1,148
 
 



 
$
1,148
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
1,973
 
 
$
1,395
 
 
 
3,368
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
224
 
 
 
332
 
 
 
556
 

 December 31
  
$
3,345
 
 
$
1,727
 
 
$
5,072
 

 LOAN PORTFOLIO
  



 



 


 

 TDRs individually evaluated for impairment (a)
  
$
22
 
 



 
$
22
 

 Other loans individually evaluated for impairment
  
 
3,924
 
 



 
 
3,924
 

 Loans collectively evaluated for impairment
  
 
78,038
 
 
$
65,272
 
 
 
143,310
 

 Purchased impaired loans
  
 
2,167
 
 
 
8,120
 
 
 
10,287
 

 December 31
  
$
84,151
 
 
$
73,392
 
 
$
157,543
 

 Portfolio segment ALLL as a percentage of total ALLL
  
 
65.95
% 
 
 
34.05
% 
 
 
100.00
% 

 Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses to total loans
  
 
3.97
% 
 
 
2.35
% 
 
 
3.22
% 
  


(a)
The associated allowance amount related to commercial lending TDRs individually evaluated for impairment totaled less than $1 million at December 31, 2009.

 

Impaired Loans  Impaired loans include commercial nonperforming loans and consumer and commercial TDRs, regardless of nonperforming status. Excluded from impaired loans are nonperforming leases, loans held for sale,
smaller balance homogeneous type loans and purchased impaired loans. See Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans for additional information. Nonperforming equipment lease financing loans of $22 million and $77 million at December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010,


respectively, are excluded from impaired loans pursuant to authoritative lease accounting guidance. We did not recognize any interest income on impaired loans that have not returned to performing
status, while they were impaired during 2011, 2010 or 2009. The following table provides further detail on impaired loans individually evaluated for impairment and the associated ALLL. Certain commercial impaired loans do not have a related ALLL as
the valuation of these impaired loans exceeded the recorded investment.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    139 
Rollforward of Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Associated Loan Data 
(continued from previous page) 


Table of Contents
Impaired Loans 
 




















In millions
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
RecordedInvestment (a)
 
  
AssociatedAllowance (b)
 
  
AverageRecordedInvestment (a)
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



  


 

 Impaired loans with an associated allowance
  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
1,125
 
  
$
785
 
  
$
241
 
  
$
979
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1,452
 
  
 
1,043
 
  
 
318
 
  
 
1,247
 

 Home equity
  
 
774
 
  
 
762
 
  
 
292
 
  
 
702
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
853
 
  
 
730
 
  
 
193
 
  
 
609
 

 Credit card
  
 
258
 
  
 
258
 
  
 
53
 
  
 
281
 

 Other consumer
  
 
48
 
  
 
48
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
39
 

 Total impaired loans with an associated allowance
  
$
4,510
 
  
$
3,626
 
  
$
1,100
 
  
$
3,857
 

 Impaired loans without an associated allowance
  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
347
 
  
$
125
 
  



  
$
104
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
592
 
  
 
342
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
413
 

 Total impaired loans without an associated allowance
  
$
939
 
  
$
467
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
517
 

 Total impaired loans
  
$
5,449
 
  
$
4,093
 
  
$
1,100
 
  
$
4,374
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



  


 

 Impaired loans with an associated allowance
  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
1,769
 
  
$
1,178
 
  
$
410
 
  
$
1,533
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1,927
 
  
 
1,446
 
  
 
449
 
  
 
1,732
 

 Home equity
  
 
622
 
  
 
622
 
  
 
207
 
  
 
448
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
521
 
  
 
465
 
  
 
122
 
  
 
309
 

 Credit card
  
 
301
 
  
 
301
 
  
 
149
 
  
 
275
 

 Other consumer
  
 
34
 
  
 
34
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
30
 

 Total impaired loans with an associated allowance
  
$
5,174
 
  
$
4,046
 
  
$
1,344
 
  
$
4,327
 

 Impaired loans without an associated allowance
  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
87
 
  
$
75
 
  



  
$
90
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
525
 
  
 
389
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
320
 

 Total impaired loans without an associated allowance
  
$
612
 
  
$
464
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
410
 

 Total impaired loans
  
$
5,786
 
  
$
4,510
 
  
$
1,344
 
  
$
4,737
 
  


(a)
Recorded investment in a loan includes the unpaid principal balance plus accrued interest and net accounting adjustments, less any charge-offs. Recorded investment does
not include any associated valuation allowance. Average recorded investment is for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 and is a simple average calculation using quarter-end balances. 


(b)
Associated allowance amounts include $580 million and $509 million for TDRs at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.

 

ALLOWANCE FOR UNFUNDED LOAN
COMMITMENTS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT  We maintain the allowance
for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit at a level we believe is appropriate to absorb estimated probable credit losses on these unfunded credit facilities. See Note 1 Accounting Policies for additional information. 
Rollforward of Allowance for Unfunded Loan Commitments and Letters of Credit 
 
















In millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 January 1
  
$
188
 
  
$
296
 
 
$
344
 

 Net change in allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of
credit
  
 
52
 
  
 
(108
) 
 
 
(48
) 

 December 31
  
$
240
 
  
$
188
 
 
$
296
 
 
NOTE 6 PURCHASED IMPAIRED LOANS 
At December 31, 2008, we identified certain loans related to the National City acquisition, for which there was evidence of credit
quality deterioration since origination and it was probable that we would be unable to collect all contractually required principal and interest payments. Evidence of credit quality deterioration included statistics such as past due status, declines
in updated borrower FICO credit scores, geographic concentration and increases in updated LTV ratios. GAAP requires these loans to be recorded at fair value at acquisition date and prohibits the “carrying over” or the creation of valuation
allowances in the initial accounting for such loans acquired in a transfer.  GAAP allows purchasers to aggregate purchased impaired loans
acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the loans have common risk characteristics. A
 
 
140    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


pool is then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. With respect to the National City acquisition, we aggregated
homogeneous consumer and residential real estate loans into pools with common risk characteristics. We account for commercial and commercial real estate loans individually.  Purchased Impaired Loans   




















  
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

In millions
 
RecordedInvestment
 
 
OutstandingBalance
 
 
RecordedInvestment
 
 
OutstandingBalance
 

 Commercial
 
$
140
 
 
$
245
 
 
$
249
 
 
$
408
 

 Commercial real estate
 
 
712
 
 
 
743
 
 
 
1,153
 
 
 
1,391
 

 Consumer
 
 
2,766
 
 
 
3,405
 
 
 
3,024
 
 
 
4,121
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
3,049
 
 
 
3,128
 
 
 
3,354
 
 
 
3,803
 

 Total
 
$
6,667
 
 
$
7,521
 
 
$
7,780
 
 
$
9,723
 
 The excess of cash flows expected to be collected over the carrying value is referred to as the accretable yield and is
recognized in interest income over the remaining life of the loan using the constant effective yield method. The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected is referred to as the nonaccretable
difference. Changes in the expected cash flows of individual or pooled purchased impaired loans will either impact the accretable yield or result in an impairment charge to the provision for credit losses in the period in which the changes become
probable.  Subsequent decreases to the net present value of expected cash flows will generally result in an impairment charge to the provision
for credit losses, resulting in an increase to the ALLL, and a reclassification from accretable yield to nonaccretable difference. Subsequent increases to the net present value of expected cash flows will generally result in a recapture of any
previously recorded ALLL, to the extent applicable, and/or a reclassification from nonaccretable difference to accretable yield, which is recognized prospectively. Other items affecting the accretable yield may include adjustments to the expected
cash flows to be collected


from contractual interest rate changes on variable rate notes, and changes in prepayment assumptions. Interest rate decreases for variable rate notes are treated as a reduction of both expected
and contractual cash flows such that the nonaccretable difference is not affected. Thus, for decreases in cash flows expected to be collected resulting from interest rate decreases for variable rate notes, the effect will be to reduce the yield
prospectively.  Purchased impaired commercial and commercial real estate loans are charged off when the entire customer loan balance is deemed
uncollectible. As purchased impaired consumer and residential real estate loans are accounted for in pools, uncollectible amounts on individual loans remain in the pools and are not reported as charge-offs. Disposals of loans, which may include
sales of loans or foreclosures, result in removal of the loan from the purchased impaired loan portfolio at its carrying amount.  During 2011,
$262 million of provision and $161 million of charge-offs were recorded on purchased impaired loans. As of December 31, 2011, decreases in the net present value of expected cash flows from the date of acquisition of purchased impaired loans
resulted in an allowance for loan and lease losses of $998 million on $6.5 billion of the purchased impaired loans while the remaining $.2 billion of purchased impaired loans required no allowance as net present value of expected cash flows improved
or remained the same.  Activity for the accretable yield for 2011 follows.  Accretable Yield   








In millions
  
2011
 

 January 1
  
$
2,185
 

 Accretion (including excess cash recoveries)
  
 
(920
) 

 Net reclassifications to accretable from non-accretable (a)
  
 
908
 

 Disposals
  
 
(64
) 

 December 31
  
$
2,109
 
  


(a)
The net reclass includes the impact of improvements in the excess cash expected to be collected from credit improvements, as well as accretable differences related to
cash flow extensions.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    141 


Table of Contents
NOTE 7 INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
Investment Securities Summary   




















 In millions
  

Amortized
Cost
 
  
Unrealized
 
 

Fair
Value
 

  
  
Gains
 
  
Losses
 
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



 


 

 SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
  



  



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



  



  



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
3,369
 
  
$
348
 
  



 
$
3,717
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
26,081
 
  
 
772
 
  
$
(61
) 
 
 
26,792
 

 Non-agency
  
 
6,673
 
  
 
152
 
  
 
(1,268
) 
 
 
5,557
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
1,101
 
  
 
39
 
  



 
 
1,140
 

 Non-agency
  
 
2,693
 
  
 
80
 
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
2,756
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
3,854
 
  
 
31
 
  
 
(216
) 
 
 
3,669
 

 State and municipal
  
 
1,779
 
  
 
75
 
  
 
(47
) 
 
 
1,807
 

 Other debt
  
 
2,691
 
  
 
83
 
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
2,762
 

 Total debt securities
  
 
48,241
 
  
 
1,580
 
  
 
(1,621
) 
 
 
48,200
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  
 
368
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
368
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
48,609
 
  
$
1,580
 
  
$
(1,621
) 
 
$
48,568
 

 SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY
  



  



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



  



  



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
221
 
  
$
40
 
  



 
$
261
 

 Residential mortgage-backed (agency)
  
 
4,761
 
  
 
131
 
  
$
(1
) 
 
 
4,891
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
1,332
 
  
 
50
 
  



 
 
1,382
 

 Non-agency
  
 
3,467
 
  
 
108
 
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
3,573
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
1,251
 
  
 
14
 
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
1,262
 

 State and municipal
  
 
671
 
  
 
31
 
  



 
 
702
 

 Other debt
  
 
363
 
  
 
16
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
379
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
12,066
 
  
$
390
 
  
$
(6
) 
 
$
12,450
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



 


 

 SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
  



  



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



  



  



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
5,575
 
  
$
157
 
  
$
(22
) 
 
$
5,710
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
31,697
 
  
 
443
 
  
 
(420
) 
 
 
31,720
 

 Non-agency
  
 
8,193
 
  
 
230
 
  
 
(1,190
) 
 
 
7,233
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
1,763
 
  
 
40
 
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
1,797
 

 Non-agency
  
 
1,794
 
  
 
73
 
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
1,856
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
2,780
 
  
 
40
 
  
 
(238
) 
 
 
2,582
 

 State and municipal
  
 
1,999
 
  
 
30
 
  
 
(72
) 
 
 
1,957
 

 Other debt
  
 
3,992
 
  
 
102
 
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
4,077
 

 Total debt securities
  
 
57,793
 
  
 
1,115
 
  
 
(1,976
) 
 
 
56,932
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  
 
378
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
378
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
58,171
 
  
$
1,115
 
  
$
(1,976
) 
 
$
57,310
 

 SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY
  



  



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



  



  



 


 

 Commercial mortgage-backed (non-agency)
  
$
4,316
 
  
$
178
 
  
$
(4
) 
 
$
4,490
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
2,626
 
  
 
51
 
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
2,676
 

 Other debt
  
 
10
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
11
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
6,952
 
  
$
230
 
  
$
(5
) 
 
$
7,177
 
 
142    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents




















 In millions
  

Amortized
Cost
 
  
Unrealized
 
 

Fair
Value
 

  
  
Gains
 
  
Losses
 
 

 December 31, 2009
  



  



  



 


 

 SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
  



  



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



  



  



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
7,548
 
  
$
20
 
  
$
(48
) 
 
$
7,520
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
24,076
 
  
 
439
 
  
 
(77
) 
 
 
24,438
 

 Non-agency
  
 
10,419
 
  
 
236
 
  
 
(2,353
) 
 
 
8,302
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
1,299
 
  
 
10
 
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
1,297
 

 Non-agency
  
 
4,028
 
  
 
42
 
  
 
(222
) 
 
 
3,848
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
2,019
 
  
 
30
 
  
 
(381
) 
 
 
1,668
 

 State and municipal
  
 
1,346
 
  
 
58
 
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
1,350
 

 Other debt
  
 
1,984
 
  
 
38
 
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
2,015
 

 Total debt securities
  
 
52,719
 
  
 
873
 
  
 
(3,154
) 
 
 
50,438
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  
 
360
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
360
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
$
53,079
 
  
$
873
 
  
$
(3,154
) 
 
$
50,798
 

 SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY
  



  



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



  



  



 


 

 Commercial mortgage-backed (non-agency)
  
$
2,030
 
  
$
195
 
  



 
$
2,225
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
3,040
 
  
 
109
 
  
$
(13
) 
 
 
3,136
 

 Other debt
  
 
159
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
160
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
$
5,229
 
  
$
305
 
  
$
(13
) 
 
$
5,521
 

 

The fair value of investment securities is impacted by interest rates, credit spreads, market volatility
and liquidity conditions. Net unrealized gains and losses in the securities available for sale portfolio are included in shareholders’ equity as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, net of tax, unless credit-related. Securities held
to maturity are carried at amortized cost. At December 31, 2011, accumulated other comprehensive income included pretax gains of $98 million from derivatives used to hedge the purchase of investment securities classified as held to maturity.
The gains will be accreted into interest income as an adjustment of yield on the securities.  The gross unrealized loss on debt securities
held to maturity was $6 million at December 31, 2011 and $5 million at December 31, 2010, with $.5 billion and $.7 billion of positions in a continuous loss position for less than 12 months at December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, respectively. The gross unrealized loss and fair value on debt securities held to maturity that were in a continuous loss position for 12 months or more were not significant at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.

During 2011, we transferred securities with a fair value of $6.3 billion from available for sale to held to
maturity. The securities were reclassified at fair value at the time of transfer and represented a non-cash transaction. Accumulated other comprehensive income included net pretax unrealized gains of $183 million on the securities at transfer, which
are being accreted over the remaining life of the related securities as an adjustment of yield in a manner consistent with the amortization of the net premium on the same transferred securities, resulting in no impact on net income. 
The following table presents gross unrealized loss and fair value of securities available for sale at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
The securities are segregated between investments that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than twelve months and twelve months or more based on the point in time the fair value declined below the amortized cost basis. The
table includes debt securities where a portion of other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) has been recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    143 


Table of Contents
Gross Unrealized Loss and Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale 
 




























In millions
  
Unrealized loss positionless than 12 months
 
  
Unrealized lossposition 12 monthsor more
 
  
Total
 

 
  
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
FairValue
 
  
UnrealizedLoss
 
 
FairValue
 

 December 31, 2011
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Agency
  
$
(24
) 
 
$
2,165
 
  
$
(37
) 
 
$
408
 
  
$
(61
) 
 
$
2,573
 

 Non-agency
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
273
 
  
 
(1,242
) 
 
 
4,378
 
  
 
(1,268
) 
 
 
4,651
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Agency
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Non-agency
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
483
 
  



 



  
 
(17
) 
 
 
483
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
(13
) 
 
 
1,355
 
  
 
(203
) 
 
 
764
 
  
 
(216
) 
 
 
2,119
 

 State and municipal
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
512
 
  
 
(41
) 
 
 
318
 
  
 
(47
) 
 
 
830
 

 Other debt
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
240
 
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
289
 
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
529
 

 Total
  
$
(91
) 
 
$
5,028
 
  
$
(1,530
) 
 
$
6,157
 
  
$
(1,621
) 
 
$
11,185
 

 December 31, 2010
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Debt securities
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
(22
) 
 
$
398
 
  



 



  
$
(22
) 
 
$
398
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
(406
) 
 
 
17,040
 
  
$
(14
) 
 
$
186
 
  
 
(420
) 
 
 
17,226
 

 Non-agency
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
345
 
  
 
(1,173
) 
 
 
5,707
 
  
 
(1,190
) 
 
 
6,052
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



 



  



 



  



 


 

 Agency
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
344
 
  



 



  
 
(6
) 
 
 
344
 

 Non-agency
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
184
 
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
84
 
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
268
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
441
 
  
 
(233
) 
 
 
776
 
  
 
(238
) 
 
 
1,217
 

 State and municipal
  
 
(22
) 
 
 
931
 
  
 
(50
) 
 
 
247
 
  
 
(72
) 
 
 
1,178
 

 Other debt
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
701
 
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
13
 
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
714
 

 Total
  
$
(500
) 
 
$
20,384
 
  
$
(1,476
) 
 
$
7,013
 
  
$
(1,976
) 
 
$
27,397
 

 

EVALUATING INVESTMENT SECURITIES FOR
OTHER-THAN-TEMPORARY IMPAIRMENTS  For the securities in the preceding
table, as of December 31, 2011 we do not intend to sell and believe we will not be required to sell the securities prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis.  On at least a quarterly basis, we conduct a comprehensive security-level assessment on all securities in an unrealized loss position to determine if OTTI exists. An unrealized loss exists when the current
fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. An OTTI loss must be recognized for a debt security in an unrealized loss position if we intend to sell the security or it is more likely than not we will be required to
sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis. In this situation, the amount of loss recognized in income is equal to the difference between the fair value and the amortized cost basis of the security. Even if we do not expect to
sell the security, we must evaluate the expected cash flows to be received to determine if we believe a credit loss has occurred. In the event of a credit loss, only


the amount of impairment associated with the credit loss is recognized in income. The portion of the unrealized loss relating to other factors, such as liquidity conditions in the market or
changes in market interest rates, is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss.  The security-level assessment is performed on each
security, regardless of the classification of the security as available for sale or held to maturity. Our assessment considers the security structure, recent security collateral performance metrics if applicable, external credit ratings, failure of
the issuer to make scheduled interest or principal payments, our judgment and expectations of future performance, and relevant independent industry research, analysis and forecasts. We also consider the severity of the impairment in our assessment.
Results of the periodic assessment are reviewed by a cross-functional senior management team representing Asset & Liability Management, Finance, and Market Risk Management. The senior management team considers the results of the
assessments, as well as other factors, in determining whether the impairment is other-than-temporary.  
 
144    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

For debt securities, a critical component of the evaluation for OTTI is the identification of
credit-impaired securities, where management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security. The paragraphs below describe our process for identifying credit impairment for our most
significant categories of securities not backed by the US government or its agencies.  Non-Agency Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities
and Asset-Backed Securities Collateralized by First-Lien and Second-Lien Residential Mortgage Loans  Potential credit losses on these
securities are evaluated on a security by security basis. Collateral performance assumptions are developed for each security after reviewing collateral composition and collateral performance statistics. This includes analyzing recent delinquency
roll rates, loss severities, voluntary prepayments, and various other collateral and performance metrics. This information is then combined with general expectations on the housing market and other economic factors to develop estimates of future
performance.  Security level assumptions for prepayments, loan defaults, and loss given default are applied to every security using a
third-party cash flow model. The third-party cash flow model then generates projected cash flows according to the structure of each security. Based on the results of the cash flow analysis, we determine whether we will recover the amortized cost
basis of our security. 
The following table provides detail on the significant assumptions used to determine credit impairment for
non-agency residential mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities:  Credit Impairment Assessment Assumptions – Non-Agency
Residential Mortgage-Backed and Asset-Backed Securities (a)   












December 31, 2011
  
Range
 
 
Weighted-average (b)
 

 Long-term prepayment rate (annual CPR)
  



 


 

 Prime
  
 
7-20
% 
 
 
14
% 

 Alt-A
  
 
5-12
  
 
 
6
 

 Option ARM
  
 
3-6
  
 
 
3
 

 Remaining collateral expected to default
  



 


 

 Prime
  
 
1-49
% 
 
 
19
% 

 Alt-A
  
 
1-59
  
 
 
34
 

 Option ARM
  
 
16-81
  
 
 
61
 

 Loss severity
  



 


 

 Prime
  
 
5-70
% 
 
 
46
% 

 Alt-A
  
 
18-82
  
 
 
57
 

 Option ARM
  
 
41-69
  
 
 
58
 
  


(a)
Collateralized by first and second-lien non-agency residential mortgage loans. 


(b)
Calculated by weighting the relevant assumption for each individual security by the current outstanding cost basis of the security. 
Non-Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities  Credit losses on these securities are measured using property-level cash flow projections and forward-looking property valuations. Cash flows are projected using a detailed analysis of net operating
income (NOI) by property type which, in turn, is based on the analysis of NOI performance over the past several business cycles combined with PNC’s economic outlook. Loss severities are based on property price projections, which are calculated
using capitalization rate projections. The capitalization rate projections are based on a combination of historical capitalization rates and expected capitalization rates implied by current market activity, our outlook and relevant independent
industry research, analysis and forecasts. Securities exhibiting weaker performance within the model are subject to further analysis. This analysis is performed at the loan level, and includes assessing local market conditions, reserves, occupancy,
rent rolls and master/special servicer details.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    145 


Table of Contents
During 2011 and 2010, the OTTI credit losses recognized in noninterest income related to estimated credit
losses on securities that we do not expect to sell were as follows:  Summary of OTTI Credit Losses Recognized in Earnings
  












 Year ended December 31 In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Available for sale securities:
  



 


 

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed
  
$
(130
) 
 
$
(242
) 

 Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed
  



 
 
(5
) 

 Asset-backed
  
 
(21
) 
 
 
(78
) 

 Other debt
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
 
 

 Total
  
$
(152
) 
 
$
(325
) 
 Summary of OTTI Noncredit Losses Included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
 












In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Total
  
$
(268
) 
 
$
(283
) 
 The following table presents a rollforward of the cumulative OTTI credit losses recognized in earnings for all debt
securities for which a portion of an OTTI loss was recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss:  Rollforward of Cumulative OTTI
Credit Losses Recognized in Earnings   
























In millions
  
Non-agencyresidentialmortgage-backed
 
 
Non-agencycommercialmortgage-backed
 
 
Asset-backed
 
 
Otherdebt
 
 
Total
 

 December 31, 2009 (a)
  
$
(479
) 
 
$
(6
) 
 
$
(145
) 
 
$
(12
) 
 
$
(642
) 

 Loss where impairment was not previously recognized
  
 
(44
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(17
) 
 



 
 
(64
) 

 Additional loss where credit impairment was previously recognized
  
 
(198
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(61
) 
 



 
 
(261
) 

 Reduction due to credit impaired securities sold
  
 
12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
(709
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(223
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
(955
) 

 Loss where impairment was not previously recognized
  
 
(18
) 
 



 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Additional loss where credit impairment was previously recognized
  
 
(112
) 
 



 
 
(18
) 
 



 
 
(130
) 

 Reduction due to credit impaired securities sold
  
 
11
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
(828
) 
 
$
(6
) 
 
$
(244
) 
 
$
(13
) 
 
$
(1,091
) 
  


(a)
Excludes OTTI credit losses related to equity securities totaling $4 million.  Information relating to gross realized securities gains and losses from the sales of securities is set forth in the following table.  Gains (Losses) on Sales of Securities Available for Sale   
























In millions
  
Proceeds
 
  
GrossGains
 
  
GrossLosses
 
  
Net Gains
 
  
TaxExpense
 

 For the year ended December 31
  



  



  



  



  


 

 2011
  
$
21,039
 
  
$
406
 
  
$
157
 
  
$
249
 
  
$
87
 

 2010
  
 
23,783
 
  
 
490
 
  
 
64
 
  
 
426
 
  
 
149
 

 2009
  
 
18,901
 
  
 
570
 
  
 
20
 
  
 
550
 
  
 
192
 

 
146    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
The following table presents, by remaining contractual maturity, the amortized cost, fair value and
weighted-average yield of debt securities at December 31, 2011.  Contractual Maturity of Debt Securities 
 
























 December 31, 2011 Dollars in millions
  
1 Year orLess
 
 
After 1 Yearthrough 5Years
 
 
After 5 Yearsthrough 10 Years
 
 
After 10Years
 
 
Total
 

 SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE
  



 



 



 



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  



 
$
2,134
 
 
$
835
 
 
$
400
 
 
$
3,369
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Agency
  



 
 
29
 
 
 
840
 
 
 
25,212
 
 
 
26,081
 

 Non-agency
  



 



 
 
28
 
 
 
6,645
 
 
 
6,673
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Agency
  



 
 
740
 
 
 
361
 
 



 
 
1,101
 

 Non-agency
  
$
27
 
 
 
183
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
2,434
 
 
 
2,693
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
68
 
 
 
772
 
 
 
627
 
 
 
2,387
 
 
 
3,854
 

 State and municipal
  
 
17
 
 
 
68
 
 
 
293
 
 
 
1,401
 
 
 
1,779
 

 Other debt
  
 
292
 
 
 
1,322
 
 
 
601
 
 
 
476
 
 
 
2,691
 

 Total debt securities available for sale
  
$
404
 
 
$
5,248
 
 
$
3,634
 
 
$
38,955
 
 
$
48,241
 

 Fair value
  
$
407
 
 
$
5,401
 
 
$
3,860
 
 
$
38,532
 
 
$
48,200
 

 Weighted-average yield, GAAP basis
  
 
2.62
% 
 
 
2.83
% 
 
 
3.35
% 
 
 
3.69
% 
 
 
3.56
% 

 SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY
  



 



 



 



 


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  



 



 



 
$
221
 
 
$
221
 

 Residential mortgage-backed (agency)
  



 



 



 
 
4,761
 
 
 
4,761
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Agency
  



 
$
162
 
 
$
1,164
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
1,332
 

 Non-agency
  



 
 
89
 
 



 
 
3,378
 
 
 
3,467
 

 Asset-backed
  
$
7
 
 
 
794
 
 
 
98
 
 
 
352
 
 
 
1,251
 

 State and municipal
  
 
8
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
127
 
 
 
490
 
 
 
671
 

 Other debt
  
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
361
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
363
 

 Total debt securities held to maturity
  
$
15
 
 
$
1,093
 
 
$
1,750
 
 
$
9,208
 
 
$
12,066
 

 Fair value
  
$
15
 
 
$
1,109
 
 
$
1,820
 
 
$
9,506
 
 
$
12,450
 

 Weighted-average yield, GAAP basis
  
 
2.86
% 
 
 
2.49
% 
 
 
3.29
% 
 
 
4.44
% 
 
 
4.09
% 
 Based on current interest rates and expected prepayment speeds, the weighted-average expected maturity of mortgage and
other asset-backed debt securities were as follows as of December 31, 2011:  Weighted-Average Expected Maturity of Mortgage and
Other Asset-Backed Debt Securities   








  
  
December 312011
 

 Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
3.3 years
  

 Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
  
 
4.7 years
  

 Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
5.4 years
  

 Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
  
 
2.6 years
  

 Asset-backed securities
  
 
3.2 years
  
 Weighted-average yields are based on historical cost with effective yields weighted for the contractual maturity of each
security. At December 31, 2011, there were no securities of a single issuer, other than FNMA and FHLMC, which exceeded 10% of total shareholders’ equity. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    147 


Table of Contents

The following table presents the fair value of securities that have been either pledged to or accepted from
others to collateralize outstanding borrowings.  Fair Value of Securities Pledged and Accepted as Collateral 
 












In millions
  
December 312011
 
  
December 312010
 

 Pledged to others
  
$
20,109
 
  
$
27,985
 

 Accepted from others:
  



  


 

 Permitted by contract or customto sell or repledge
  
 
1,796
 
  
 
3,529
 

 Permitted amount repledged to others
  
 
892
 
  
 
1,971
 
 The securities pledged to others include positions held in our portfolio of investment securities, trading securities,
and securities accepted as collateral from others that we are permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge, and were used to secure public and trust deposits, repurchase agreements, and for other purposes. The securities accepted from others
that we are permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge are a component of Federal funds sold and resale agreements on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
NOTE 8 FAIR VALUE 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT 
Fair value is defined in GAAP as the price that would be received to sell an asset or the price paid to transfer a liability on the measurement date. The
standard focuses on the exit price in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. GAAP establishes a fair value reporting hierarchy to maximize the use of observable
inputs when measuring fair value and defines the three levels of inputs as noted below.  Level 1 
Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 assets and liabilities may include debt securities, equity securities and
listed derivative contracts that are traded in an active exchange market and certain US Treasury securities that are actively traded in over-the-counter markets.  Level 2  Observable inputs other than Level 1 such as: quoted prices for similar assets or
liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated to observable market data for substantially the full term of the
asset or liability. Level 2 assets and liabilities may include debt securities, equity securities and listed derivative contracts with quoted prices that are traded in markets that are not active, and certain debt and equity


securities and over-the-counter derivative contracts whose fair value is determined using a pricing model without significant unobservable inputs. This category generally includes US government
agency debt securities, agency residential and commercial mortgage-backed debt securities, asset-backed debt securities, corporate debt securities, residential mortgage loans held for sale, and derivative contracts. 
Level 3  Unobservable inputs that are
supported by minimal or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities may include financial instruments whose value is determined using pricing models with internally
developed assumptions, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. This category generally includes certain
available for sale and trading securities, commercial mortgage loans held for sale, private equity investments, residential mortgage servicing rights, BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock and certain financial derivative contracts. The available for
sale and trading securities within Level 3 include non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, auction rate securities, private-issuer asset-backed securities and corporate debt securities. Nonrecurring items, primarily certain nonaccrual and
other loans held for sale, commercial mortgage servicing rights, equity investments, OREO and foreclosed assets and other assets are also included in this category.  We characterize active markets as those where transaction volumes are sufficient to provide objective pricing information, with reasonably narrow bid/ask spreads and where dealer quotes received do not
vary widely and are based on current information. Inactive markets are typically characterized by low transaction volumes, price quotations that vary substantially among market participants or are not based on current information, wide bid/ask
spreads, a significant increase in implied liquidity risk premiums, yields, or performance indicators for observed transactions or quoted prices compared to historical periods, a significant decline or absence of a market for new issuance, or any
combination of the above factors. We also consider nonperformance risks including credit risk as part of our valuation methodology for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value.  Any internal models used to determine fair values or to validate dealer quotes based on the descriptions below are subject to review and independent testing as part of our model validation and internal
control testing processes. The Model Validation Group (MVG) tests significant models on at least an annual basis. In addition, we have teams, independent of the traders, verify marks and assumptions used for valuations at each period end.
 
 
148    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR
AT FAIR VALUE ON A RECURRING BASIS  Securities Available for Sale and Trading Securities  Securities accounted for at
fair value include both the available for sale and trading portfolios. We primarily use prices obtained from pricing services, dealer quotes, or recent trades to determine the fair value of securities. As of December 31, 2011, 86% of the
positions in these portfolios were priced by pricing services provided by third-party vendors. The third-party vendors use a variety of methods when pricing securities that incorporate relevant market data to arrive at an estimate of what a buyer in
the marketplace would pay for a security under current market conditions. One of the vendor’s prices are set with reference to market activity for highly liquid assets such as U.S. Treasury and agency securities and agency residential
mortgage-backed securities, and matrix pricing for other asset classes, such as commercial mortgage and other asset-backed securities. Another vendor primarily uses pricing models considering adjustments for ratings, spreads, matrix pricing and
prepayments for the instruments we value using this service, such as non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, agency adjustable rate mortgage securities, agency collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs), commercial mortgage-backed
securities and municipal bonds. The vendors we use provide pricing services on a global basis and have quality management processes in place to monitor the integrity of the valuation inputs and the prices provided to users, including procedures to
consider and incorporate information received from pricing servicer users who may challenge a price. We monitor and validate the reliability of vendor pricing on an ongoing basis through periodic pricing methodology reviews, by performing detailed
reviews of the assumptions and inputs used by the vendor to price individual securities, and through price validation testing. Price validation testing is performed independent of the risk-taking function and involves corroborating the prices
received from third-party vendors with prices from another third-party source, by reviewing valuations of comparable instruments, or by comparison to internal valuations. Securities not priced by one of our pricing vendors may be valued using a
dealer quote. Dealer quotes received are typically non-binding. Securities priced using a dealer quote are subject to corroboration either with another dealer quote, by comparison to similar securities priced by another third-party source, or
through internal valuation in order to validate that the quote is representative of the market. Security prices are also validated through actual cash settlement upon sale of a security.  Securities are classified within the fair value hierarchy after giving consideration to the nature and complexity of the security, the activity level in the market for the security type, and the
observability of the inputs used to determine the fair value. In circumstances where relevant market prices are limited or unavailable, valuations may require significant judgments or adjustments to determine fair value. In these


cases, the securities are classified as Level 3. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, securities classified as Level 3 consisted primarily of non-agency residential mortgage-backed and
asset-backed securities collateralized by first- and second-lien residential mortgage loans. Fair value for these securities is estimated primarily using pricing obtained from third-party vendors. In some cases, fair value is estimated using a
dealer quote or by reference to prices of securities of a similar vintage and collateral type. Market activity for these security types is limited with little price transparency. As a result, these securities are generally valued by the third-party
vendor using a discounted cash flow approach that incorporates observable market activity where available. Significant inputs to the valuation include prepayment projections, credit loss assumptions, and discount rates that are deemed representative
of current market conditions.  A cross-functional team comprised of representatives from Asset & Liability Management, Finance, and
Market Risk Management oversees the governance of the processes and methodologies used to estimate the fair value of securities and the price validation testing that is performed. Management meets on a regular basis to review pricing sources and
trends and the results of validation testing.  Financial Derivatives  Exchange-traded derivatives are valued using quoted market prices and are classified as Level 1. However, the majority of derivatives that we enter into are executed over-the-counter and are valued using
internal models. Readily observable market inputs to these models can be validated to external sources, including industry pricing services, or corroborated through recent trades, dealer quotes, yield curves, implied volatility or other
market-related data. Certain derivatives, such as total rate of return swaps, are corroborated to the CMBX index. These derivatives are classified as Level 2. Derivatives priced using significant management judgment or assumptions are classified as
Level 3.  The fair values of our derivatives are adjusted for nonperformance risk including credit risk as appropriate. Our nonperformance
risk adjustment is computed using new loan pricing and considers externally available bond spreads, in conjunction with internal historical recovery observations.  Residential Mortgage Loans Held for Sale  We have elected to account for certain
residential mortgage loans originated for sale on a recurring basis at fair value. Residential mortgage loans are valued based on quoted market prices, where available, prices for other traded mortgage loans with similar characteristics, and
purchase commitments and bid information received from market participants. These loans are regularly traded in active markets and observable pricing information is available from market participants. The prices are adjusted as necessary to include
the embedded servicing value in the loans and to take into consideration the specific characteristics of certain loans that are priced based
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    149 


Table of Contents


on the pricing of similar loans. These adjustments represent unobservable inputs to the valuation but are not considered significant to the fair value of the loans. Accordingly, residential
mortgage loans held for sale are classified as Level 2.  Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights 
Residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) are carried at fair value on a recurring basis. Assumptions incorporated into the residential MSRs valuation
model reflect management’s best estimate of factors that a market participant would use in valuing the residential MSRs. Although sales of residential MSRs do occur, residential MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily
observable prices so the precise terms and conditions of sales are not available. As a benchmark for the reasonableness of its residential MSRs fair value, PNC obtains opinions of value from independent parties (“brokers”). These brokers
provided a range (+/- 10 bps) based upon their own discounted cash flow calculations of our portfolio that reflected conditions in the secondary market, and any recently executed servicing transactions. PNC compares its internally-developed
residential MSRs value to the ranges of values received from the brokers. If our residential MSRs fair value falls outside of the brokers’ ranges, management will assess whether a valuation adjustment is warranted. For 2011 and 2010, PNC’s
residential MSRs value has not fallen outside of the brokers’ ranges. We consider our residential MSRs value to represent a reasonable estimate of fair value. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, residential MSRs are classified as Level
3.  Commercial Mortgage Loans Held for Sale  We account for certain commercial mortgage loans classified as held for sale at fair value. The election of the fair value option aligns the accounting for the commercial mortgages with the related
hedges.  We determine the fair value of commercial mortgage loans held for sale by using a whole loan methodology. Fair value is determined
using sale valuation assumptions that management believes a market participant would use in pricing the loans. When available, valuation assumptions included observable inputs based on whole loan sales. Adjustments are made to these assumptions to
account for situations when uncertainties exist, including market conditions and liquidity. Credit risk is included as part of our valuation process for these loans by considering expected rates of return for market participants for similar loans in
the marketplace. Based on the significance of unobservable inputs, we classified this portfolio as Level 3.

Equity Investments  The valuation of direct and indirect private equity investments requires significant management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of
such investments. The carrying values of direct and affiliated partnership interests reflect the expected exit price and are based on various techniques including multiples of adjusted earnings of the entity, independent appraisals, anticipated
financing and sale transactions with third parties, or the pricing used to value the entity in a recent financing transaction. We value indirect investments in private equity funds based on net asset value as provided in the financial statements
that we receive from their managers. Due to the time lag in our receipt of the financial information and based on a review of investments and valuation techniques applied, adjustments to the manager-provided value are made when available recent
portfolio company information or market information indicates a significant change in value from that provided by the manager of the fund. These investments are classified as Level 3.  Customer Resale Agreements  We have elected to account for resale agreements, which
are economically hedged using free-standing financial derivatives, at fair value. The fair value for resale agreements is determined using a model that includes observable market data such as interest rates as inputs. Readily observable market
inputs to this model can be validated to external sources, including yield curves, implied volatility or other market-related data. These instruments are classified as Level 2.  BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock  We have elected to account for the shares of
BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock received in a stock exchange with BlackRock at fair value. We own approximately 1.5 million of these shares after delivery of approximately 1.3 million shares in September 2011 pursuant to our obligation
to partially fund a portion of certain BlackRock LTIP programs. The Series C Preferred Stock economically hedges the BlackRock LTIP liability that is accounted for as a derivative. The fair value of the Series C Preferred Stock is determined using a
third-party modeling approach, which includes both observable and unobservable inputs. This approach considers expectations of a default/liquidation event and the use of liquidity discounts based on our inability to sell the security at a fair, open
market price in a timely manner. Although dividends are equal to common shares and other preferred series, significant transfer restrictions exist on our Series C shares for any purpose other than to satisfy the LTIP obligation. Due to the
significance of unobservable inputs, this security is classified as Level 3.  
 
150    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including instruments for which PNC has
elected the fair value option, follow.  Fair Value Measurements – Summary 
 




































  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

In millions
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total FairValue
 
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Total FairValue
 

 Assets
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Securities available for sale
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
$
1,659
 
  
$
2,058
 
  



  
$
3,717
 
  
$
5,289
 
  
$
421
 
  



  
$
5,710
 

 Residential mortgage-backed
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Agency
  



  
 
26,792
 
  



  
 
26,792
 
  



  
 
31,720
 
  



  
 
31,720
 

 Non-agency
  



  



  
$
5,557
 
  
 
5,557
 
  



  



  
$
7,233
 
  
 
7,233
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Agency
  



  
 
1,140
 
  



  
 
1,140
 
  



  
 
1,797
 
  



  
 
1,797
 

 Non-agency
  



  
 
2,756
 
  



  
 
2,756
 
  



  
 
1,856
 
  



  
 
1,856
 

 Asset-backed
  



  
 
2,882
 
  
 
787
 
  
 
3,669
 
  



  
 
1,537
 
  
 
1,045
 
  
 
2,582
 

 State and municipal
  



  
 
1,471
 
  
 
336
 
  
 
1,807
 
  



  
 
1,729
 
  
 
228
 
  
 
1,957
 

 Other debt
  
 
 
 
  
 
2,713
 
  
 
49
 
  
 
2,762
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
4,004
 
  
 
73
 
  
 
4,077
 

 Total debt securities
  
 
1,659
 
  
 
39,812
 
  
 
6,729
 
  
 
48,200
 
  
 
5,289
 
  
 
43,064
 
  
 
8,579
 
  
 
56,932
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  
 
368
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
368
 
  
 
307
 
  
 
67
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
378
 

 Total securities available for sale
  
 
2,027
 
  
 
39,812
 
  
 
6,729
 
  
 
48,568
 
  
 
5,596
 
  
 
43,131
 
  
 
8,583
 
  
 
57,310
 

 Financial derivatives (a) (b)
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  



  
 
9,150
 
  
 
60
 
  
 
9,210
 
  



  
 
5,502
 
  
 
68
 
  
 
5,570
 

 Other contracts
  
 
 
 
  
 
246
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
253
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
178
 
  
 
9
 
  
 
187
 

 Total financial derivatives
  
 
 
 
  
 
9,396
 
  
 
67
 
  
 
9,463
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
5,680
 
  
 
77
 
  
 
5,757
 

 Residential mortgage loans held for sale (c)
  



  
 
1,522
 
  



  
 
1,522
 
  



  
 
1,878
 
  



  
 
1,878
 

 Trading securities (d)
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Debt (e) (f)
  
 
1,058
 
  
 
1,371
 
  
 
39
 
  
 
2,468
 
  
 
1,348
 
  
 
367
 
  
 
69
 
  
 
1,784
 

 Equity
  
 
42
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
45
 
  
 
42
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
42
 

 Total trading securities
  
 
1,100
 
  
 
1,374
 
  
 
39
 
  
 
2,513
 
  
 
1,390
 
  
 
367
 
  
 
69
 
  
 
1,826
 

 Residential mortgage servicing rights (g)
  



  



  
 
647
 
  
 
647
 
  



  



  
 
1,033
 
  
 
1,033
 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale (c)
  



  



  
 
843
 
  
 
843
 
  



  



  
 
877
 
  
 
877
 

 Equity investments
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Direct investments
  



  



  
 
856
 
  
 
856
 
  



  



  
 
749
 
  
 
749
 

 Indirect investments (h)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
648
 
  
 
648
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
635
 
  
 
635
 

 Total equity investments
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1,504
 
  
 
1,504
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1,384
 
  
 
1,384
 

 Customer resale agreements (i)
  



  
 
732
 
  



  
 
732
 
  



  
 
866
 
  



  
 
866
 

 Loans (j)
  



  
 
222
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
227
 
  



  
 
114
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
116
 

 Other assets
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock (k)
  



  



  
 
210
 
  
 
210
 
  



  



  
 
396
 
  
 
396
 

 Other
  
 
 
 
  
 
422
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
429
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
450
 
  
 
7
 
  
 
457
 

 Total other assets
  
 
 
 
  
 
422
 
  
 
217
 
  
 
639
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
450
 
  
 
403
 
  
 
853
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,127
 
  
$
53,480
 
  
$
10,051
 
  
$
66,658
 
  
$
6,986
 
  
$
52,486
 
  
$
12,428
 
  
$
71,900
 

 Liabilities
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Financial derivatives (b) (l)
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  



  
$
7,065
 
  
$
6
 
  
$
7,071
 
  



  
$
4,302
 
  
$
56
 
  
$
4,358
 

 BlackRock LTIP
  



  



  
 
210
 
  
 
210
 
  



  



  
 
396
 
  
 
396
 

 Other contracts
  
 
 
 
  
 
233
 
  
 
92
 
  
 
325
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
173
 
  
 
8
 
  
 
181
 

 Total financial derivatives
  
 
 
 
  
 
7,298
 
  
 
308
 
  
 
7,606
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
4,475
 
  
 
460
 
  
 
4,935
 

 Trading securities sold short (m)
  



  



  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Debt (e)
  
$
997
 
  
 
19
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1,016
 
  
$
2,514
 
  
 
16
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
2,530
 

 Total trading securities sold short
  
 
997
 
  
 
19
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1,016
 
  
 
2,514
 
  
 
16
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
2,530
 

 Other liabilities
  
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
6
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
997
 
  
$
7,320
 
  
$
308
 
  
$
8,625
 
  
$
2,514
 
  
$
4,497
 
  
$
460
 
  
$
7,471
 

  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    151 


Table of Contents


(a)
Included in Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(b)
Amounts at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are presented gross and are not reduced by the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that
allow PNC to net positive and negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparty. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, the net asset amounts were $2.4 billion and $1.9 billion and the net
liability amounts were $.7 billion and $1.1 billion. 


(c)
Included in Loans held for sale on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. PNC has elected the fair value option for certain commercial and residential mortgage loans held for
sale. 


(d)
Fair value includes net unrealized gains of $102 million at December 31, 2011 compared with net unrealized losses of $17 million at December 31, 2010.



(e)
Approximately 57% of these securities are residential mortgage-backed securities and 34% are US Treasury and government agencies securities at December 31, 2011.
Comparable amounts at December 31, 2010 were 4% and 74%, respectively. 


(f)
At December 31, 2011, $1.1 billion of residential mortgage-backed agency securities with embedded derivatives were carried in Trading securities.



(g)
Included in Other intangible assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(h)
The indirect equity funds are not redeemable, but PNC receives distributions over the life of the partnership from liquidation of the underlying investments by the
investee. 


(i)
Included in Federal funds sold and resale agreements on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. PNC has elected the fair value option for these items. 


(j)
Included in Loans on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(k)
PNC has elected the fair value option for these shares. 


(l)
Included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(m)
Included in Other borrowed funds on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Reconciliations of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using Level 3 inputs for 2011 and 2010 follow.  Year Ended December 31, 2011   












































 Level 3 Instruments Only
In millions
 

Fair ValueDec. 31, 2010
 
 
 Total realized /
unrealized gains (losses) for the period (a)
 
 
Purchases
 
 
Sales
 
 
Issuances
 
 
Settlements
 
 

Transfersout of
Level 3 (b)
 
 

Fair ValueDecember 31, 2011
 
 
 (*)
Unrealizedgains (losses) onassets andliabilities held on ConsolidatedBalance Sheet atDecember
31, 2011
 

 
 
 Included in
Earnings (*)
 
 
Included inothercomprehensiveincome
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Securities available for sale
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Residential mortgage- backed non-agency
 
$
7,233
 
 
$
(80
) 
 
$
(157
) 
 
$
45
 
 
$
(280
) 
 



 
$
(1,204
) 
 



 
$
5,557
 
 
$
(130
) 

 Asset-backed
 
 
1,045
 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
21
 
 
 
48
 
 



 



 
 
(316
) 
 



 
 
787
 
 
 
(21
) 

 State and municipal
 
 
228
 
 



 
 
10
 
 
 
121
 
 



 



 
 
(23
) 
 



 
 
336
 
 


 

 Other debt
 
 
73
 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
3
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
(3
) 
 



 
 
1
 
 
$
(26
) 
 
 
49
 
 
 
(1
) 

 Corporate stocks and other
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total securities available for sale
 
 
8,583
 
 
 
(93
) 
 
 
(123
) 
 
 
217
 
 
 
(283
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1,546
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
6,729
 
 
 
(152
) 

 Financial derivatives
 
 
77
 
 
 
263
 
 



 
 
5
 
 



 



 
 
(278
) 
 



 
 
67
 
 
 
188
 

 Trading securities – Debt
 
 
69
 
 
 
4
 
 



 



 



 



 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
39
 
 
 
(5
) 

 Residential mortgage servicing rights
 
 
1,033
 
 
 
(406
) 
 



 
 
65
 
 



 
$
118
 
 
 
(163
) 
 



 
 
647
 
 
 
(383
) 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale
 
 
877
 
 
 
3
 
 



 



 
 
(13
) 
 



 
 
(24
) 
 



 
 
843
 
 
 
(4
) 

 Equity investments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Direct investments
 
 
749
 
 
 
87
 
 



 
 
176
 
 
 
(156
) 
 



 



 



 
 
856
 
 
 
58
 

 Indirect investments
 
 
635
 
 
 
89
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
66
 
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
648
 
 
 
91
 

 Total equity investments
 
 
1,384
 
 
 
176
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
242
 
 
 
(298
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,504
 
 
 
149
 

 Loans
 
 
2
 
 



 



 
 
4
 
 



 



 
 
(1
) 
 



 
 
5
 
 


 

 Other assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock
 
 
396
 
 
 
(14
) 
 



 



 



 



 
 
(172
) 
 



 
 
210
 
 
 
(14
) 

 Other
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 

 Total other assets
 
 
403
 
 
 
(14
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(173
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
217
 
 
 
(14
) 

 Total assets
 
$
12,428
 
 
$
(67
) 
 
$
(123
) 
 
$
534
 
 
$
(594
) 
 
$
118
 
 
$
(2,214
) 
 
$
(31
) 
 
$
10,051
 
 
$
(221
) 

 Total liabilities (c)
 
$
460
 
 
$
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
10
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
(169
) 
 
 
 
 
 
$
308
 
 
$
(17
) 

 
152    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 




































 Level 3 Instruments Only
In millions
 

Fair ValueDecember 31, 2009
 
 
 Total realized /
unrealized gains (losses) for the period (a)
 
 

Purchases,
issuances,
and
settlements,
net
 
 
TransfersintoLevel 3 (b)
 
 

Transfersout of
Level 3 (b)
 
 

Fair ValueDecember 31, 2010
 
 
 (*)
Unrealizedgains (losses) onassets andliabilities held on ConsolidatedBalance Sheet atDecember
31, 2010
 

 
 
 Included in
Earnings (*)
 
 
 Included inothercomprehensive
income
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Securities available for sale
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Residential mortgage-backed agency
 
$
5
 
 



 



 
$
(5
) 
 



 



 



 


 

 Residential mortgage-backed non-agency
 
 
8,302
 
 
$
(116
) 
 
$
1,065
 
 
 
(2,016
) 
 



 
$
(2
) 
 
$
7,233
  
 
$
(241
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed non-agency
 
 
6
 
 



 



 



 
$
2
 
 
 
(8
) 
 



 


 

 Asset-backed
 
 
1,254
 
 
 
(77
) 
 
 
180
 
 
 
(312
) 
 



 



 
 
1,045
  
 
 
(78
) 

 State and municipal
 
 
266
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
1
 
 



 
 
228
  
 


 

 Other debt
 
 
53
 
 



 
 
6
 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
29
 
 



 
 
73
  
 


 

 Corporate stocks and other
 
 
47
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(42
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
  
 
 
 
 

 Total securities available for sale
 
 
9,933
 
 
 
(188
) 
 
 
1,226
 
 
 
(2,410
) 
 
 
32
 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
8,583
  
 
 
(319
) 

 Financial derivatives
 
 
50
 
 
 
36
 
 



 
 
(10
) 
 
 
1
 
 



 
 
77
  
 
 
43
 

 Trading securities – Debt
 
 
89
 
 
 
(2
) 
 



 
 
(18
) 
 



 



 
 
69
  
 
 
(4
) 

 Residential mortgage servicing rights
 
 
1,332
 
 
 
(209
) 
 



 
 
(90
) 
 



 



 
 
1,033
  
 
 
(194
) 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale
 
 
1,050
 
 
 
16
 
 



 
 
(189
) 
 



 



 
 
877
  
 
 
20
 

 Equity investments
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Direct investments
 
 
595
 
 
 
157
 
 



 
 
(3
) 
 



 



 
 
749
  
 
 
102
 

 Indirect investments
 
 
593
 
 
 
92
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
635
  
 
 
74
 

 Total equity investments
 
 
1,188
 
 
 
249
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1,384
  
 
 
176
 

 Loans
 



 



 



 
 
2
 
 



 



 
 
2
  
 


 

 Other assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock
 
 
486
 
 
 
(86
) 
 



 
 
(4
) 
 



 



 
 
396
  
 
 
(86
) 

 Other
 
 
23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7
  
 
 
 
 

 Total other assets
 
 
509
 
 
 
(86
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(16
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
403
  
 
 
(86
) 

 Total assets
 
$
14,151
 
 
$
(184
) 
 
$
1,222
 
 
$
(2,784
) 
 
$
33
 
 
$
(10
) 
 
$
12,428
  
 
$
(364
) 

 Total liabilities (c)
 
$
506
 
 
$
(71
) 
 
 
 
 
 
$
23
 
 
$
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
460
  
 
$
(73
) 



(a)
Losses for assets are bracketed while losses for liabilities are not. 


(b)
PNC’s policy is to recognize transfers in and transfers out as of the end of the reporting period. 


(c)
Financial derivatives. 
 

Net losses (realized and unrealized) included in earnings relating to Level 3 assets and liabilities were
$74 million for 2011 compared with net losses of $113 million for 2010. These amounts included net unrealized losses of $204 million for 2011 compared with net unrealized losses of $291 million for 2010. These net losses were included in noninterest
income on the Consolidated Income Statement. These amounts also included amortization and accretion of $109 million for 2011 compared with $153 million for 2010. The amortization and accretion amounts were included in Interest income on the
Consolidated Income Statement.  During 2011 and 2010, no material transfers of assets or liabilities between the hierarchy levels occurred.
 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS ACCOUNTED FOR AT
FAIR VALUE ON A NONRECURRING BASIS  We may be
required to measure certain other financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These adjustments to fair


value usually result from the application of lower-of-cost-or-fair value accounting or write-downs of individual assets due to impairment.  The amounts below for nonaccrual loans represent the carrying value of loans for which adjustments are primarily based on the appraised value of the collateral or the net book value of the collateral from
the borrower’s most recent financial statements if no appraisal is available. As part of the appraisal process, persons ordering or reviewing appraisals are independent of the lending customer relationship/loan production process. Appraisals
must be provided by licensed or certified appraisers and conform to the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice. For loans secured by commercial properties where the underlying collateral is in excess of $250,000, appraisals are
obtained at least annually. In certain instances (e.g., physical changes in the property), a more recent appraisal is obtained. Additionally, borrower ordered appraisals are not permitted, and PNC ordered
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    153 


Table of Contents


appraisals are regularly reviewed. We have a real estate valuation services group whose sole function is to manage the real estate appraisal solicitation and evaluation process for commercial
loans. All third-party appraisals are reviewed by this group, including consideration of comments/questions on the appraisal by the reviewer, customer relationship manager, credit officer, and underwriter. Upon resolving these comments/questions
through discussions with the third-party appraiser, adjustments to the initial appraisal may occur and be incorporated into the final issued appraisal report.  For loans secured by commercial properties where the underlying collateral is $250,000 and less, there is no requirement to obtain an appraisal. In instances where an appraisal is not obtained, the
collateral value is determined consistent with external third-party appraisal standards, by an internal person independent of the lending customer relationship/loan production process. If an appraisal is outdated due to changed project or market
conditions, or if the net book value is utilized, management uses a Loss Given Default (LGD) percentage which represents the exposure PNC expects to lose in the event a borrower defaults on an obligation. Accordingly, LGD is a function of collateral
recovery rates and loan-to-value. Collateral recovery rates vary based upon collateral type and represent the expected recovery amount on defaulted loans from the collateral after


workout costs. Those rates are established based upon actual PNC loss experience and external market data.  The amounts below for loans held for sale represent the carrying value of loans for which adjustments are primarily based on observable market data, management’s internal assumptions or the appraised
value of collateral. The fair value determination of the equity investment resulting in an impairment loss included below was based on observable market data for other comparable entities as adjusted for internal assumptions and unobservable inputs.
The amounts below for commercial mortgage servicing rights reflect an impairment of three strata at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The fair value of commercial mortgage servicing rights is estimated by using an
internal valuation model. The model calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows considering estimates of servicing revenue and costs, discount rates and prepayment speeds. The amounts below for OREO and foreclosed
assets are primarily based on appraised values or sales price less costs to sell. The amounts below for long-lived assets held for sale represent the carrying value of the asset (lower of recorded net book value or sales price less estimated cost to
sell) based upon a recent appraisal, a recent sales offer, or management assumptions which take into consideration changes in the market environment or changes in property conditions.
 
  Fair Value Measurements –
Nonrecurring (a)  




















 
  
Fair Value
 
  
Gains (Losses)Year ended
 

In millions
  
December 312011
 
  
December 312010
 
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Assets
  



  



  



 


 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
$
253
 
  
$
429
 
  
$
(49
) 
 
$
81
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
130
 
  
 
350
 
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(93
) 

 Equity investments
  
 
1
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Commercial mortgage servicing rights
  
 
457
 
  
 
644
 
  
 
(157
) 
 
 
(40
) 

 Other intangible assets
  



  
 
1
 
  



 


 

 OREO and foreclosed assets
  
 
223
 
  
 
245
 
  
 
(71
) 
 
 
(103
) 

 Long-lived assets held for sale
  
 
17
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
(30
) 

 Total assets
  
$
1,081
 
  
$
1,697
 
  
$
(286
) 
 
$
(188
) 



(a)
All Level 3. 
 
154    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
 
FINANCIAL ASSETS ACCOUNTED FOR
UNDER FAIR VALUE OPTION  Refer to the Fair Value Measurement section of
this Note 8 regarding the fair value of commercial mortgage loans held for sale, residential mortgage loans held for sale, customer resale agreements, and BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock.  Commercial Mortgage Loans Held for Sale  Interest income on these loans is recorded
as earned and reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in Other interest income. The impact on earnings of offsetting economic hedges is not reflected in these amounts. Changes in fair value due to instrument-specific credit risk for 2011 and
2010 were not material. 
Residential Mortgage Loans Held for Sale and in Portfolio 
Interest income on these loans is recorded as earned and reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in Other interest income. Throughout 2011 and 2010,
certain residential mortgage loans for which we elected the fair value option were subsequently reclassified to portfolio loans. Changes in fair value due to instrument-specific credit risk for 2011 and 2010 were not material. 
Customer Resale Agreements 
Interest income on resale agreements is reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in Other interest income. Changes in fair value due to
instrument-specific credit risk for 2011 and 2010 were not material.  Residential Mortgage-Backed Agency Securities With Embedded
Derivatives  Interest income on securities is reported on the Consolidated Income Statement in Interest income.
 
  The changes in fair value included in
Noninterest income for items for which we elected the fair value option follow.  Fair Value Option – Changes in Fair Value
(a)  
















Year ended December 31
  
Gains (Losses)
 

In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Assets
  



 



 


 

 Customer resale agreements
  
$
(12
) 
 
$
1
 
 
$
(26
) 

 Residential mortgage-backed agency securities with embedded derivatives (b)
  
 
24
 
 



 


 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale
  
 
3
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
(68
) 

 Residential mortgage loans held for sale
  
 
172
 
 
 
280
 
 
 
405
 

 Residential mortgage loans – portfolio
  
 
(17
) 
 



 
 
1
 

 BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
(86
) 
 
 
275
 



(a)
The impact on earnings of offsetting hedged items or hedging instruments is not reflected in these amounts. 


(b)
These residential mortgage-backed agency securities with embedded derivatives are carried as Trading securities. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    155 


Table of Contents
Fair values and aggregate unpaid principal balances of items for which we elected the fair value option
follow.  Fair Value Option – Fair Value and Principal Balances 
 
















In millions
  
Fair Value
 
  
Aggregate UnpaidPrincipal Balance
 
  
Difference
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  


 

 Customer resale agreements
  
$
732
 
  
$
686
 
  
$
46
 

 Residential mortgage-backed agency securities with embedded derivatives (a)
  
 
1,058
 
  
 
864
 
  
 
194
 

 Residential mortgage loans held for sale
  



  



  


 

 Performing loans
  
 
1,501
 
  
 
1,439
 
  
 
62
 

 Loans 90 days or more past due
  
 
19
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
(6
) 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
2
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
(2
) 

 Total
  
 
1,522
 
  
 
1,468
 
  
 
54
 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale (b)
  



  



  


 

 Performing loans
  
 
829
 
  
 
962
 
  
 
(133
) 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
14
 
  
 
27
 
  
 
(13
) 

 Total
  
 
843
 
  
 
989
 
  
 
(146
) 

 Residential mortgage loans – portfolio
  



  



  


 

 Performing loans
  
 
74
 
  
 
97
 
  
 
(23
) 

 Loans 90 days or more past due (c)
  
 
90
 
  
 
95
 
  
 
(5
) 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
63
 
  
 
176
 
  
 
(113
) 

 Total
  
$
227
 
  
$
368
 
  
$
(141
) 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  


 

 Customer resale agreements
  
$
866
 
  
$
806
 
  
$
60
 

 Residential mortgage loans held for sale
  



  



  


 

 Performing loans
  
 
1,844
 
  
 
1,839
 
  
 
5
 

 Loans 90 days or more past due
  
 
33
 
  
 
41
 
  
 
(8
) 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
1
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
(1
) 

 Total
  
 
1,878
 
  
 
1,882
 
  
 
(4
) 

 Commercial mortgage loans held for sale (b)
  



  



  


 

 Performing loans
  
 
847
 
  
 
990
 
  
 
(143
) 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
30
 
  
 
49
 
  
 
(19
) 

 Total
  
 
877
 
  
 
1,039
 
  
 
(162
) 

 Residential mortgage loans – portfolio
  



  



  


 

 Performing loans
  
 
36
 
  
 
44
 
  
 
(8
) 

 Loans 90 days or more past due (c)
  
 
64
 
  
 
67
 
  
 
(3
) 

 Nonaccrual loans
  
 
16
 
  
 
31
 
  
 
(15
) 

 Total
  
$
116
 
  
$
142
 
  
$
(26
) 



(a)
These residential mortgage-backed agency securities with embedded derivatives are carried as Trading securities. 


(b)
There were no loans 90 days or more past due within this category at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010. 


(c)
The majority of these loans are government insured loans, which positively impacts the fair value. 
 
156    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
ADDITIONAL FAIR VALUE INFORMATION
RELATED TO FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   




















 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

In millions
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
FairValue
 
  
CarryingAmount
 
  
 Fair
Value
 

 Assets
  



  


 
  



  


 

 Cash and short-term assets
  
$
8,567
 
  
$
8,567
 
  
$
9,711
 
  
$
9,711
 

 Trading securities
  
 
2,513
 
  
 
2,513
 
  
 
1,826
 
  
 
1,826
 

 Investment securities
  
 
60,634
 
  
 
61,018
 
  
 
64,262
 
  
 
64,487
 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
2,936
 
  
 
2,939
 
  
 
3,492
 
  
 
3,492
 

 Net loans (excludes leases)
  
 
148,254
 
  
 
151,167
 
  
 
139,316
 
  
 
141,431
 

 Other assets
  
 
4,019
 
  
 
4,019
 
  
 
4,664
 
  
 
4,664
 

 Mortgage servicing rights
  
 
1,115
 
  
 
1,118
 
  
 
1,698
 
  
 
1,707
 

 Financial derivatives
  



  


 
  



  


 

 Designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  
 
1,888
 
  
 
1,888
 
  
 
1,255
 
  
 
1,255
 

 Not designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  
 
7,575
 
  
 
7,575
 
  
 
4,502
 
  
 
4,502
 



 

 

 Liabilities
  



  


 
  



  


 

 Demand, savings and money market deposits
  
 
156,335
 
  
 
156,335
 
  
 
141,990
 
  
 
141,990
 

 Time deposits
  
 
31,632
 
  
 
31,882
 
  
 
41,400
 
  
 
41,825
 

 Borrowed funds
  
 
36,966
 
  
 
39,064
 
  
 
39,821
 
  
 
41,273
 

 Financial derivatives
  



  


 
  



  


 

 Designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  
 
116
 
  
 
116
 
  
 
85
 
  
 
85
 

 Not designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  
 
7,490
 
  
 
7,490
 
  
 
4,850
 
  
 
4,850
 

 Unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit
  
 
223
 
  
 
223
 
  
 
173
 
  
 
173
 

 

The aggregate fair values in the table above do not represent the total market value of PNC’s assets
and liabilities as the table excludes the following: 


 
•
 
 real and personal property, 


 
•
 
 lease financing, 


 
•
 
 loan customer relationships, 


 
•
 
 deposit customer intangibles, 


 
•
 
 retail branch networks, 


 
•
 
 fee-based businesses, such as asset management and brokerage, and 


 
•
 
 trademarks and brand names. 
We used the following methods and assumptions to estimate fair value amounts for financial instruments. 
GENERAL  For
short-term financial instruments realizable in three months or less, the carrying amount reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet approximates fair value. Unless otherwise stated, the rates used in discounted cash flow analyses are based on market
yield curves.  CASH AND SHORT-TERM ASSETS 
The carrying amounts reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheet for cash and short-term investments approximate fair values primarily due to their
short-term nature. For purposes of this disclosure only, short-term assets include the following: 


 
•
 
 due from banks, 


 
•
 
 interest-earning deposits with banks,



 
•
 
 federal funds sold and resale agreements, 


 
•
 
 cash collateral, 


 
•
 
 customers’ acceptances, and 


 
•
 
 accrued interest receivable.  SECURITIES  Securities include both the investment securities
(comprised of available for sale and held to maturity securities) and trading portfolios. We primarily use prices obtained from pricing services, dealer quotes or recent trades to determine the fair value of securities. As of December 31, 2011,
88% of the positions in these portfolios were priced by pricing services provided by third-party vendors. The third-party vendors use a variety of methods when pricing securities that incorporate relevant market data to arrive at an estimate of what
a buyer in the marketplace would pay for a security under current market conditions. One of the vendor’s prices are set with reference to market activity for highly liquid assets such as U.S. Treasury and agency securities and agency
mortgage-backed securities, and matrix pricing for other asset classes, such as commercial mortgage and other asset-backed securities. Another vendor primarily uses pricing models considering adjustments for ratings, spreads, matrix pricing and
prepayments for the instruments we value using this service, such as non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, agency adjustable rate mortgage securities, agency CMOs, commercial mortgage-backed securities, and municipal bonds. Management
uses various methods and techniques to validate prices obtained from pricing services and dealers, including reference to
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    157 


Table of Contents


another third-party source, by reviewing valuations of comparable instruments, or by comparison to internal valuations.  NET LOANS AND LOANS HELD FOR SALE 
Fair values are estimated based on the discounted value of expected net cash flows incorporating assumptions about prepayment rates, net credit losses and
servicing fees. For purchased impaired loans, fair value is assumed to equal PNC’s carrying value, which represents the present value of expected future principal and interest cash flows, as adjusted for any ALLL recorded for these loans. See
Note 6 Purchased Impaired Loans for additional information. For revolving home equity loans and commercial credit lines, this fair value does not include any amount for new loans or the related fees that will be generated from the existing customer
relationships. Non-accrual loans are valued at their estimated recovery value. Also refer to the Fair Value Measurement and Fair Value Option sections of this Note 8 regarding the fair value of commercial and residential mortgage loans held for
sale. Loans are presented net of the ALLL and do not include future accretable discounts related to purchased impaired loans. 
OTHER ASSETS  Other assets as shown in the preceding table include the following: 


 
•
 
 FHLB and FRB stock, 


 
•
 
 equity investments carried at cost and fair value, and 


 
•
 
 BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock.  Investments accounted for under the equity method, including our investment in BlackRock, are not included in the preceding table.  Refer to the Fair Value Measurement section of this Note 8 regarding the fair value of equity investments.  The aggregate carrying value of our investments that are carried at cost and FHLB and FRB stock was $1.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2010, both of which
approximate fair value at each date. 
MORTGAGE SERVICING ASSETS 
Fair value is based on the present value of the estimated future cash flows, incorporating assumptions as to prepayment speeds, discount rates, escrow
balances, interest rates, cost to service and other factors.  The key valuation assumptions for commercial and residential mortgage loan
servicing assets at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 are included in Note 9 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. 
CUSTOMER RESALE AGREEMENTS  Refer to the Fair Value Measurement section of this Note 8 regarding the fair value of customer resale agreements.  DEPOSITS  The carrying amounts of noninterest-bearing demand and
interest-bearing money market and savings deposits approximate fair values. For time deposits, which include foreign deposits, fair values are estimated based on the discounted value of expected net cash flows assuming current interest rates.
 BORROWED FUNDS  The carrying amounts of Federal funds purchased, commercial paper, repurchase agreements, trading securities sold short, cash collateral, other short-term borrowings, acceptances outstanding and accrued
interest payable are considered to be their fair value because of their short-term nature. For all other borrowed funds, fair values are estimated primarily based on dealer quotes or discounted cash flow analysis. 
UNFUNDED LOAN COMMITMENTS AND LETTERS OF
CREDIT  The fair value of unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit is determined from a market participant’s
view including the impact of changes in interest rates, credit and other factors. Because our obligation on substantially all unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit varies with changes in interest rates, these instruments are subject to
little fluctuation in fair value due to changes in interest rates. We establish a liability on these facilities related to their creditworthiness.  FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES  Refer to the Fair Value
Measurement section of this Note 8 regarding the fair value of financial derivatives.  
 
158    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
NOTE 9 GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Changes in goodwill by business segment during 2011 and 2010 follow:  Changes in Goodwill by Business Segment (a)  




























In millions
  
RetailBanking
 
 
Corporate &InstitutionalBanking
 
 
AssetManagementGroup
 
 
ResidentialMortgageBanking
 
  
Other (b)
 
 
Total
 

 December 31, 2009
  
$
5,369
  
 
$
2,756
  
 
$
68
  
 
$
43
  
  
$
1,269
  
 
$
9,505
  

 Sale of GIS
  



 



 



 



  
 
(1,232
) 
 
 
(1,232
) 

 Other
  
 
(67
) 
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
 
 
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
(124
) 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
5,302
 
 
$
2,728
 
 
$
62
 
 
$
43
 
  
$
14
 
 
$
8,149
 

 BankAtlantic branch acquisition
  
 
35
  
 
 
6
  
 



 



  



 
 
41
  

 Flagstar branch acquisition
  
 
17
 
 



 



 



  



 
 
17
 

 Other
  
 
40
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
2
 
 
 
78
  

 December 31, 2011
  
$
5,394
 
 
$
2,763
 
 
$
69
 
 
$
43
 
  
$
16
 
 
$
8,285
 



(a)
The Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio business segment does not have any goodwill allocated to it. 


(b)
Includes goodwill related to BlackRock and GIS prior to the sale of GIS on July 1, 2010. See Note 2 Acquisition and Divestiture Activity for additional information
regarding our July 1, 2010 sale of GIS. 
 

Changes in goodwill and other intangible assets during 2011 follow: 
Summary of Changes in Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
 
















In millions
  
Goodwill
 
  
Customer-Related
 
 
ServicingRights
 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
8,149
  
  
$
903
  
 
$
1,701
  

 Additions/adjustments:
  



  



 


 

 BankAtlantic branch acquisition
  
 
41
  
  
 
1
  
 


 

 Flagstar branch acquisition
  
 
17
 
  
 
1
 
 


 

 Other (a)
  
 
78
  
  



 


 

 Mortgage and other loan servicing rights
  



  



 
 
(266
) 

 Impairment charge
  



  



 
 
(157
) 

 Amortization
  
 
 
 
  
 
(163
) 
 
 
(161
) 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
8,285
  
  
$
742
  
 
$
1,117
  



(a)
Primarily related to correction of amounts for an acquisition affecting prior periods.  Assets and liabilities of acquired entities are recorded at estimated fair value as of the acquisition date.  We conduct a goodwill impairment test on our reporting units at least annually or more frequently if any adverse triggering events occur. Based on the results of our analysis, there were no impairment
charges related to goodwill recognized in 2011, 2010 or 2009. The fair value of our reporting units is


determined by using discounted cash flow and market comparability methodologies.  The
gross carrying amount, accumulated amortization and net carrying amount of other intangible assets by major category consisted of the following:  Other Intangible Assets   












In millions
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Customer-related and other intangibles
  



 


 

 Gross carrying amount
  
$
1,525
 
 
$
1,524
 

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(783
) 
 
 
(621
) 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
742
 
 
$
903
 

 Mortgage and other loan servicing rights
  



 


 

 Gross carrying amount
  
$
2,009
 
 
$
2,293
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(197
) 
 
 
(40
) 

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(695
) 
 
 
(552
) 

 Net carrying amount
  
$
1,117
 
 
$
1,701
 

 Total
  
$
1,859
 
 
$
2,604
 
 While certain of our other intangible assets have finite lives and are amortized primarily on a straight-line basis,
certain core deposit intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis.  For customer-related and other intangibles, the estimated remaining
useful lives range from 1 year to 10 years, with a weighted-average remaining useful life of 8 years.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    159 


Table of Contents

Amortization expense on existing intangible assets follows: 
Amortization Expense on Existing Intangible Assets   








In millions
 

 2009
  
$
326
 

 2010
  
 
304
 

 2011
  
 
324
  


 

 2012
  
 
264
 

 2013
  
 
203
  

 2014
  
 
198
 

 2015
  
 
183
  

 2016
  
 
159
 
 Changes in commercial mortgage servicing rights follow:  Commercial Mortgage Servicing Rights   
















In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 January 1
  
$
665
 
 
$
921
 
 
$
864
 

 Additions (a)
  
 
120
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
121
 

 Acquisition adjustment
  



 



 
 
1
 

 Sale of servicing rights (b)
  



 
 
(192
) 
 


 

 Impairment charge
  
 
(157
) 
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
35
 

 Amortization expense
  
 
(160
) 
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
(100
) 

 December 31
  
$
468
 
 
$
665
 
 
$
921
 

 Valuation allowance:
  



 



 


 

 January 1
  
$
(40
) 
 



 
$
(35
) 

 Provision
  
 
(166
) 
 
$
(110
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Recoveries
  
 
9
 
 
 
70
 
 
 
36
  

 December 31
  
$
(197
) 
 
$
(40
) 
 
$
—  
  



(a)
Additions for 2011 included $55 million from loans sold with servicing retained and $65 million from purchases of servicing rights from third parties. Comparable
amounts were $45 million and $38 million for 2010 and $92 million and $29 million for 2009. 


(b)
Reflects the sale of a duplicative agency servicing operation in 2010.  We recognize as an other intangible asset the right to service mortgage loans for others. Commercial MSRs are purchased and originated when loans are sold with servicing retained. Commercial MSRs are
initially recorded at fair value. These rights are subsequently accounted for at the lower of amortized cost or fair value, and are substantially amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated net servicing income of 5 to 10 years.
 Commercial MSRs are periodically evaluated for impairment. For purposes of impairment, the commercial MSRs are stratified based on asset
type, which characterizes the predominant risk of the underlying financial asset. If the carrying amount of any individual stratum exceeds its fair value, a valuation reserve is established with a corresponding charge to Corporate services on our
Consolidated Income Statement. 
The fair value of commercial MSRs is estimated by using an internal valuation model. The model calculates
the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows considering estimates of servicing revenue and costs, discount rates and prepayment speeds.  Changes in the residential MSRs follow:  Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights
  
















In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 January 1
  
$
1,033
 
 
$
1,332
 
 
$
1,008
 

 Additions:
  



 



 


 

 From loans sold with servicing retained
  
 
118
 
 
 
95
 
 
 
261
 

 Purchases
  
 
65
 
 



 


 

 Sales
  



 



 
 
(74
) 

 Changes in fair value due to:
  



 



 


 

 Time and payoffs (a)
  
 
(163
) 
 
 
(185
) 
 
 
(264
) 

 Purchase accounting adjustments
  



 



 
 
17
 

 Other (b)
  
 
(406
) 
 
 
(209
) 
 
 
384
 

 December 31
  
$
647
 
 
$
1,033
 
 
$
1,332
 

 Unpaid principal balance of loans serviced for others at December 31
  
$
118,058
 
 
$
125,806
 
 
$
146,050
 



(a)
Represents decrease in MSR value due to passage of time, including the impact from both regularly scheduled loan principal payments and loans that were paid down or
paid off during the period. 


(b)
Represents MSRs value changes resulting primarily from market-driven changes in interest rates.  We recognize mortgage servicing right assets on residential real estate loans when we retain the obligation to service these loans upon sale and the servicing fee is more than adequate compensation. MSRs
are subject to declines in value principally from actual or expected prepayment of the underlying loans and defaults. We manage this risk by economically hedging the fair value of MSRs with securities and derivative instruments which are expected to
increase in value when the value of MSRs declines.  The fair value of residential MSRs is estimated by using a cash flow valuation model which
calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration actual and expected mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, servicing costs, and other economic factors which are determined based on
current market conditions.  The fair value of residential and commercial MSRs and significant inputs to the valuation model as of
December 31, 2011 are shown in the tables below. The expected and actual rates of mortgage loan prepayments are significant factors driving the fair value. Management uses a third-party model to estimate future residential loan prepayments and
internal proprietary models to estimate future commercial loan  
 
160    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


prepayments. These models have been refined based on current market conditions. Future interest rates are another important factor in the valuation of MSRs. Management utilizes market implied
forward interest rates to estimate the future direction of mortgage and discount rates. The forward rates utilized are derived from the current yield curve for U.S. dollar interest rate swaps and are consistent with pricing of capital markets
instruments. Changes in the shape and slope of the forward curve in future periods may result in volatility in the fair value estimate.  A
sensitivity analysis of the hypothetical effect on the fair value of MSRs to adverse changes in key assumptions is presented below. These sensitivities do not include the impact of the related hedging activities. Changes in fair value generally
cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the MSRs is calculated independently
without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, changes in mortgage interest rates, which drive changes in prepayment rate estimates, could result in changes in the interest
rate spread), which could either magnify or counteract the sensitivities.  The following tables set forth the fair value of commercial and
residential MSRs and the sensitivity analysis of the hypothetical effect on the fair value of MSRs to immediate adverse changes of 10% and 20% in those assumptions:  Commercial Mortgage Servicing Rights – Key Valuation Assumptions   








Dollars in millions
  
December 312011
  
December 312010

 Fair value
  
$471
  
$674

 Weighted-average life (years)
  
5.9
  
6.3

 Prepayment rate range (a)
  
13%-28%
  
10%-24%

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
  
$6
  
$8

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
  
$11
  
$16

 Effective discount rate range
  
6%-9%
  
7%-9%

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
  
$9
  
$13

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
  
$18
  
$26



(a)
Represents modeled prepayment rates considering the effective dates of prepayment penalties.

Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights – Key Valuation Assumptions 
 








Dollars in millions
  
December 312011
  
December 312010

 Fair value
  
$647
  
$1,033

 Weighted-average life (years)
  
3.6
  
5.8

 Weighted-average constant prepayment rate
  
22.10%
  
12.61%

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
  
$44
  
$41

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
  
$84
  
$86

 Weighted-average option adjusted spread
  
11.77%
  
12.18%

 Decline in fair value from 10% adverse change
  
$25
  
$43

 Decline in fair value from 20% adverse change
  
$48
  
$83
 Fees from mortgage and other loan servicing comprised of contractually specified servicing fees, late fees, and ancillary
fees follows:  Fees from Mortgage and Other Loan Servicing 
 
















In millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Fees from mortgage and other loan servicing
  
$
641
 
  
$
692
 
  
$
825
 
 We also generate servicing fees from fee-based activities provided to others. 
Fees from commercial MSRs, residential MSRs and other loan servicing are reported on our Consolidated Income Statement in the line items Corporate
services, Residential mortgage, and Consumer services, respectively. 
NOTE 10 PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD
IMPROVEMENTS 
Premises, equipment and leasehold improvements, stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization, were as follows:
 Premises, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements 
 












December 31 - in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Land
  
$
690
 
 
$
659
 

 Buildings
  
 
1,955
 
 
 
1,644
 

 Equipment
  
 
3,894
 
 
 
3,335
 

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
651
 
 
 
593
 

 Total
  
 
7,190
 
 
 
6,231
 

 Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(2,546
) 
 
 
(2,172
) 

 Net book value
  
$
4,644
 
 
$
  4,059
 
  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    161 


Table of Contents

Depreciation expense on premises, equipment and leasehold improvements and amortization expense, primarily
for capitalized internally developed software, was as follows:  Depreciation and Amortization Expense 
 
















 Year ended December 31 in millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Continuing operations:
  



  



  


 

 Depreciation
  
$
474
 
  
$
455
 
  
$
466
 

 Amortization
  
 
22
 
  
 
45
 
  
 
79
 

 Discontinued operations:
  



  



  


 

 Depreciation
  



  
 
12
 
  
 
29
 

 Amortization
  
 
 
 
  
 
11
 
  
 
26
 
 We lease certain facilities and equipment under agreements expiring at various dates through the year 2067. We account
for these as operating leases. Rental expense on such leases was as follows:  Lease Rental Expense 
 
















 Year ended December 31 in millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Continuing operations:
  
$
357
 
  
$
379
 
  
$
372
 

 Discontinued operations:
  
 
 
 
  
 
10
 
  
 
16
 
 Required minimum annual rentals that we owe on noncancelable leases having initial or remaining terms in excess of one
year totaled $2.5 billion at December 31, 2011. Future minimum annual rentals are as follows: 


 
•
 
 2012: $342 million, 


 
•
 
 2013: $312 million, 


 
•
 
 2014: $274 million, 


 
•
 
 2015: $221 million, 


 
•
 
 2016: $188 million, and 


 
•
 
 2017 and thereafter: $1.2 billion. 
NOTE 11 TIME DEPOSITS 
The aggregate amount of time deposits with a denomination of $100,000 or more was $11.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and $15.5
billion at December 31, 2010.  Total time deposits of $31.6 billion at December 31, 2011 have future contractual maturities,
including related purchase accounting adjustments, as follows: 


 
•
 
 2012: $25.0 billion, 


 
•
 
 2013: $3.0 billion, 


 
•
 
 2014: $1.2 billion, 


 
•
 
 2015: $0.9 billion, 


 
•
 
 2016: $0.3 billion, and 


 
•
 
 2017 and thereafter: $1.2 billion.

NOTE 12 BORROWED FUNDS 
Bank notes along with senior and subordinated notes consisted of the following: 
Bank Notes, Senior Debt and Subordinated Debt   
















 December 31, 2011 Dollars in millions
  
Outstanding
 
  
Stated Rate
 
 
Maturity
 

 Bank notes
  
$
510
 
  
 
zero – 4.66
% 
 
 
2013-2043
  

 Senior debt
  
 
11,283
 
  
 
.57% – 6.70
% 
 
 
2012-2020
  

 Bank notes and senior debt
  
$
11,793
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Subordinated debt
  



  



 


 

 Junior
  
$
2,377
 
  
 
1.10% – 10.18
% 
 
 
2028-2068
  

 Other
  
 
5,944
 
  
 
.90% – 8.11
% 
 
 
2013-2019
  

 Subordinated debt
  
$
8,321
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Included in outstandings for the senior and subordinated notes in the table above are basis adjustments of $434 million
and $591 million, respectively, related to fair value accounting hedges as of December 31, 2011.  Total borrowed funds of $36.7 billion
at December 31, 2011 have contractually scheduled repayments, including related purchase accounting adjustments, as follows: 


 
•
 
 2012: $15.8 billion, 


 
•
 
 2013: $3.4 billion, 


 
•
 
 2014: $2.7 billion, 


 
•
 
 2015: $2.8 billion, 


 
•
 
 2016: $1.9 billion, and 


 
•
 
 2017 and thereafter: $10.1 billion.  Included in borrowed funds are FHLB borrowings of $7.0 billion at December 31, 2011, which are collateralized by a blanket lien on residential mortgage and other real estate-related loans. FHLB
advances of $3.0 billion have scheduled maturities of less than one year. The remainder of the FHLB borrowings have balances that will mature from 2012 – 2030, with interest rates ranging from zero to 7.33%. 
As part of the National City acquisition, PNC assumed a liability for the payment at maturity or earlier of $1.4 billion of convertible senior notes
with a fixed interest rate of 4.0% payable semiannually. The notes matured and were paid off on February 1, 2011 except for notes that were converted prior to the maturity date. Prior to November 15, 2010, holders were entitled to convert
the notes, at their option, under certain circumstances, none of which were satisfied. After November 15, 2010, the holders were entitled to convert their notes at any time through the third scheduled trading date preceding the maturity date,
and certain holders did elect to convert a de minimis amount of notes. Upon conversion, PNC paid cash related to the principal amount of such notes. PNC was not required to issue any shares of its common stock for any conversion value.
 
 
162    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
The $2.4 billion of junior subordinated debt included in the above table represents debt redeemable prior to
maturity. The call price and related premiums are discussed in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities. 
NOTE 13 CAPITAL SECURITIES OF SUBSIDIARY
TRUSTS AND PERPETUAL TRUST SECURITIES 
At December 31, 2011, capital securities totaling $2.7 billion represented non-voting preferred beneficial interests in the assets
of the following Trusts:  Capital Securities of Subsidiary Trusts 
 










Trust       
                                 
  
Date Formed
  
Description of Capital Securities
  
Redeemable

PNC Capital Trust C
  
June 1998
  
$200 million due June 1, 2028, bearing interest at a floating rate per annum equal to 3-month LIBOR plus 57 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was
1.097%.
  
On or after June 1, 2008 at par.

 


 

PNC Capital Trust D
  
December 2003
  
$300 million of 6.125% capital securities due December 15, 2033.
  
On or after December 18, 2008 at par.

 


 

Fidelity Capital Trust II
  
December 2003
  
$22 million due January 23, 2034 bearing an interest rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 285 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 3.278%.
  
On or after January 23, 2009 at par.

 


 

Yardville Capital Trust VI
  
June 2004
  
$15 million due July 23, 2034, bearing an interest rate equal to 3-month LIBOR plus 270 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 3.116%.
  
On or after July 23, 2009 at par.

 


 

Fidelity Capital Trust III
  
October 2004
  
$30 million due November 23, 2034 bearing an interest rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 197 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 2.465%.
  
On or after November 23, 2009 at par.

 


 

Sterling Financial Statutory Trust III
  
December 2004
  
$15 million due December 15, 2034 at a fixed rate of 6%. The fixed rate remained in effect until December 15, 2009 at which time the securities began paying a floating rate of
3-month LIBOR plus 189 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 2.436%.
  
On or after December 15, 2009 at par.

 


 

Sterling Financial Statutory Trust IV
  
February 2005
  
$15 million due March 15, 2035 at a fixed rate of 6.19%. The fixed rate remained in effect until March 15, 2010 at which time the securities began paying a floating rate of 3-month
LIBOR plus 187 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 2.416%.
  
On or after March 15, 2010 at par.

 


 

MAF Bancorp Capital Trust I
  
April 2005
  
$30 million due June 15, 2035 bearing an interest rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 175 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 2.296%.
  
On or after June 15, 2010 at par.

 


 

MAF Bancorp Capital Trust II
  
August 2005
  
$35 million due September 15, 2035 bearing an interest rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 140 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 1.946%.
  
On or after September 15, 2010 at par.

 


 

James Monroe Statutory Trust III
  
September 2005
  
$8 million due December 15, 2035 at a fixed rate of 6.253%. The fixed rate remained in effect until September 15, 2010 at which time the securities began paying a floating rate of
LIBOR plus 155 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 2.096%.
  
On or after December 15, 2010 at par.

 


 

Yardville Capital Trust III
  
March 2001
  
$6 million of 10.18% capital securities due June 8, 2031.
  
On or after June 8, 2011 at par plus a premium of up to
5.09%.
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    163 


Table of Contents










Trust       
                                 
  
Date Formed
  
Description of Capital Securities
  
Redeemable

Sterling Financial Statutory Trust V
  
March 2007
  
$20 million due March 15, 2037 at a fixed rate of 7%. The fixed rate remained in effect until June 15, 2007 at which time the securities began paying a floating rate of 3-month
LIBOR plus 165 basis points. The rate in effect at December 31, 2011 was 2.196%.
  
March 15, 2012 at par.

 


 

National City Capital Trust III
  
May 2007
  
$500 million due May 25, 2067 at a fixed rate of 6.625%. The fixed rate remains in effect until May 25, 2047 at which time the securities pay a floating rate of one-month LIBOR plus
212.63 basis points.
  
On or after May 25, 2012 at par.

 


 

National City Capital Trust IV
  
August 2007
  
$518 million due August 30, 2067 at a fixed rate of 8.00%. The fixed rate remains in effect until September 15, 2047 at which time the securities pay a floating rate of one-month
LIBOR plus 348.7 basis points.
  
On or after August 30, 2012 at par.

 


 

National City Preferred Capital Trust I
  
January 2008
  
$500 million due December 10, 2043 at a fixed rate of 12.00%. The fixed rate remains in effect until December 10, 2012 at which time the interest rate resets to 3-month LIBOR plus
861 basis points.
  
On or after December 10, 2012 at par.

 


 

PNC Capital Trust E
  
February 2008
  
$450 million of 7.75% capital securities due March 15, 2068.
  
On or after March 15, 2013 at par.*



*
If we redeem or repurchase the trust preferred securities of, and the junior subordinated notes payable to, PNC Capital Trust E during the period from March 15,
2038 through March 15, 2048, we are subject to the terms of a replacement capital covenant requiring PNC to have received proceeds from the issuance of certain qualified securities prior to the redemption or repurchase, unless the replacement
capital covenant has been terminated pursuant to its terms. As of December 31, 2011, the beneficiaries of this limitation are the holders of our $300 million of 6.125% Junior Subordinated Notes issued December 2003. 
 

All of these Trusts are wholly owned finance subsidiaries of PNC. In the event of certain changes or
amendments to regulatory requirements or federal tax rules, the capital securities are redeemable in whole. In accordance with GAAP, the financial statements of the Trusts are not included in PNC’s consolidated financial statements. 
At December 31, 2011, PNC’s junior subordinated debt with a carrying value of $2.4 billion represented debentures purchased and held as assets
by the Trusts.  The obligations of the respective parent of each Trust, when taken collectively, are the equivalent of a full and
unconditional guarantee of the obligations of such Trust under the terms of the Capital Securities. Such guarantee is subordinate in right of payment in the same manner as other junior subordinated debt. There are certain restrictions on PNC’s
overall ability to obtain funds from its subsidiaries. For


additional disclosure on these funding restrictions, including an explanation of dividend and intercompany loan limitations, see Note 21 Regulatory Matters. PNC is also subject to restrictions on
dividends and other provisions potentially imposed under the Exchange Agreements with Trust II and Trust III as described in the following Perpetual Trust Securities section and to other provisions similar to or in some ways more restrictive than
those potentially imposed under those agreements. In September 2010, we redeemed all of the underlying capital securities of Sterling Financial Statutory Trust II, Yardville Capital Trusts II and IV, and James Monroe Statutory Trust II. The capital
securities redeemed totaled $71 million. In October 2010, we redeemed all of the underlying capital securities of Yardville Capital Trust V. The capital securities redeemed totaled $10 million. In November 2011, we redeemed all of the underlying
capital securities of National City Capital Trust II. The capital securities redeemed totaled $750 million.  
  Perpetual Trust Securities
Summary  We have issued certain hybrid capital vehicles that currently qualify as capital for regulatory purposes. 
 














Date
  
Entity (a)
  
Private Placement (b)
  
Rate
 
  
Trust Issuing Notes 
(c)

 February 2008
  
PNC Preferred Funding LLC
  
$375 million
  
 
8.700
% 
  
PNC Preferred Funding Trust III (d)

 March 2007
  
PNC Preferred Funding LLC
  
$500 million
  
 
6.113
% 
  
PNC Preferred Funding Trust II (e)

 December 2006
  
PNC Preferred Funding LLC
  
$500 million
  
 
6.517
% 
  
PNC Preferred Funding Trust I (f)



(a)
PNC REIT Corp. owns 100% of the LLC’s common voting securities. As a result, the LLC is an indirect subsidiary of PNC and is consolidated on PNC’s
Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(b)
Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Exchangeable Perpetual Trust Securities. 


(c)
The trusts investments in the LLC’s preferred securities are characterized as a noncontrolling interest on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. This noncontrolling
interest totaled approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011. 


(d)
Automatically exchangeable into a share of Series J Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of PNC. 


(e)
Automatically exchangeable into a share of Series I Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of PNC (Series I Preferred Stock). 


(f)
Automatically exchangeable into a share of Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of PNC Bank, N.A. (PNC Bank Preferred Stock). 
 
164    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
These Trust Securities are automatically exchangeable as set forth above under certain conditions relating
to the capitalization or the financial condition of PNC Bank, N.A. and upon the direction of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Summary of Replacement Capital Covenants of Perpetual Trust Securities 
 








Replacement Capital Covenant (a)
  
Trust
  
Description of Capital
Covenants

Trust I RCC
  
PNC Preferred Funding Trust I
  
Neither we nor our subsidiaries (other than PNC Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries) would purchase the Trust Securities, the
LLC Preferred Securities or the PNC Bank Preferred Stock unless such repurchases or redemptions are made from proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the Trust I
RCC.

 

 

Trust II RCC
  
PNC Preferred Funding Trust II
  
Until March 29, 2017, neither we nor our subsidiaries would purchase or redeem the Trust
II Securities, the LLC Preferred Securities or the Series I Preferred Stock unless such repurchases or redemptions are made from proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the
Trust II RCC.



(a)
As of December 31, 2011, each of the Trust I RCC and the Trust II RCC are for the benefit of holders of our $200 million of Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Notes
issued in June 1998.  Summary of Contractual Commitments of Perpetual Trust Securities 
 






Trust
  
Description of Restrictions on Dividend
Payments (c)

PNC Preferred Funding Trust I (a)
  
If full dividends are not paid in a dividend period, PNC Bank, N.A. nor its subsidiaries will declare or pay dividends or
other distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any of its equity capital securities during the next succeeding period (other than to holders of the LLC Preferred Securities and any
parity equity securities issued by the LLC). (d)

PNC Preferred Funding Trust II (b)
  
If full dividends are not paid in a dividend period, PNC will not declare or pay dividends with respect to, or redeem,
purchase or acquire, any of its equity capital securities during the next succeeding dividend period. (e)

PNC Preferred Funding Trust III (b)
  
If full dividends are not paid in a dividend period, PNC will not declare or pay dividends
with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, any of its equity capital securities during the next succeeding dividend period. (e)



(a)
Contractual commitments made by PNC Bank, N.A. 


(b)
Contractual commitments made by PNC. 


(c)
Applies to the applicable Trust Securities and the LLC Preferred Securities. 


(d)
Except: (i) in the case of dividends payable to subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A., to PNC Bank, N.A. or another wholly-owned subsidiary of PNC Bank, N.A. or
(ii) in the case of dividends payable to persons that are not subsidiaries of PNC Bank, N.A., to such persons only if, (A) in the case of a cash dividend, (PNC has first irrevocably committed to contribute amounts at least equal to such
cash dividend or (B) in the case of in-kind dividends payable by PNC REIT Corp., PNC has committed to purchase such in-kind dividend from the applicable PNC REIT Corp. holders in exchange for a cash payment representing the market value of such
in-kind dividend, and PNC has committed to contribute such in-kind dividend to PNC Bank, N.A. 


(e)
Except for: (i) purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of capital stock of PNC in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other
similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants, (ii) purchases of shares of common stock of PNC pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy stock existing prior to the commencement of the
extension period, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan, (iii) any dividend in connection with the implementation of a shareholders’ rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of any rights under any such plan,
(iv) as a result of any exchange or conversion of any class or series of PNC’s capital stock for any other class or series of PNC’s capital stock, (v) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of PNC capital stock pursuant
to the conversion or exchange provisions of such stock or the security being converted or exchanged or (vi) any stock dividends paid by PNC where the dividend stock is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid.

 

NOTE 14 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
PENSION AND POSTRETIREMENT PLANS 
We have a noncontributory, qualified defined benefit pension plan covering eligible employees. Benefits are determined using a cash balance formula where
earnings credits are a percentage of eligible compensation. Earnings credit percentages for plan participants on December 31, 2009 are frozen at their level earned to that point. Earnings credits for all employees who become participants on or
after January 1, 2010 are a flat 3% of eligible compensation. Participants at December 31, 2009 earn interest based on 30-year Treasury securities with a minimum rate, while new participants on or


after January 1, 2010 are not subject to the minimum rate. Pension contributions are based on an actuarially determined amount necessary to fund total benefits payable to plan participants.
 We also maintain nonqualified supplemental retirement plans for certain employees and provide certain health care and life insurance benefits
for qualifying retired employees (postretirement benefits) through various plans. The nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans are unfunded. The Company reserves the right to terminate or make plan changes at any time.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    165 


Table of Contents
We use a measurement date of December 31 for plan assets and benefit obligations. A reconciliation of
the changes in the projected benefit obligation for qualified pension, nonqualified pension and postretirement benefit plans as well as the change in plan assets for the qualified pension plan follows: 
Reconciliation of Changes in Projected Benefit Obligation and Change in Plan Assets 
 




























 
  
 Qualified
Pension
 
 
NonqualifiedPension
 
 
PostretirementBenefits
 

December 31 (Measurement Date) – in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
4,095
 
 
$
3,619
 
 
$
289
 
 
$
286
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
3,803
 
 
$
3,611
 
 
$
290
 
 
$
282
 
 
$
393
 
 
$
374
 

 Service cost
  
 
94
 
 
 
102
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
5
 

 Interest cost
  
 
196
 
 
 
203
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
20
 

 Actuarial losses and changes in assumptions
  
 
304
 
 
 
92
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
20
 

 Participant contributions
  



 



 



 



 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 

 Federal Medicare subsidy on benefits paid
  



 



 



 



 
 
2
 
 
 
2
 

 Early Retirement Reinsurance Program payments received
  



 



 



 



 
 
1
 
 


 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(209
) 
 
 
(205
) 
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(42
) 

 Projected benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
4,188
 
 
$
3,803
 
 
$
297
 
 
$
290
 
 
$
397
 
 
$
393
 

 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
3,991
 
 
$
3,721
 
 



 



 



 


 

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
23
 
 
 
475
 
 



 



 



 


 

 Employer contribution
  



 



 
$
25
 
 
$
20
 
 
$
22
 
 
$
26
 

 Participant contributions
  



 



 



 



 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 

 Federal Medicare subsidy on benefits paid
  



 



 



 



 
 
2
 
 
 
2
 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(209
) 
 
 
(205
) 
 
 
(25
) 
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
(37
) 
 
 
(42
) 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
3,805
 
 
$
3,991
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Funded status
  
$
(383
) 
 
$
188
 
 
$
(297
) 
 
$
(290
) 
 
$
(397
) 
 
$
(393
) 

 Amounts recognized in the statement of financial positions
  



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Noncurrent asset
  



 
 
188
 
 



 



 



 


 

 Current liability
  



 



 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
(35
) 

 Noncurrent liability
  
 
(383
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(267
) 
 
 
(257
) 
 
 
(363
) 
 
 
(358
) 

 Net amount recognized on the balance sheet
  
$
(383
) 
 
$
188
 
 
$
(297
) 
 
$
(290
) 
 
$
(397
) 
 
$
(393
) 

 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income consist of:
  



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Prior service cost (credit)
  
$
(39
) 
 
$
(46
) 
 
$
2
 
 
$
2
 
 
$
(11
) 
 
$
(14
) 

 Net actuarial loss
  
 
1,087
 
 
 
526
 
 
 
71
 
 
 
61
 
 
 
54
 
 
 
55
 

 Amount recognized in AOCI
  
$
1,048
 
 
$
480
 
 
$
73
 
 
$
63
 
 
$
43
 
 
$
41
 

 

At December 31, 2011, the fair value of the qualified pension plan assets were less than both the
accumulated benefit obligation and the projected benefit obligation. This is due to unfavorable 2011 investment returns, as well as an increase in obligations due to a drop in the discount rate. The nonqualified pension plan is unfunded.
Contributions from us and, in the case of postretirement benefit plans, participant contributions cover all benefits paid under the nonqualified pension plan and postretirement benefit plans. The postretirement plan provides benefits to certain
retirees that are at least actuarially equivalent to those provided by Medicare Part D and accordingly, we receive a federal subsidy as shown in the table.  The Early Retiree Reinsurance Program (ERRP) was established by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.


Congress appropriated funding of $5 billion for this temporary ERRP to provide financial assistance to employers, unions, and state and local governments to help them maintain coverage for early
retirees age 55 and older who are not yet eligible for Medicare, including their spouses, surviving spouses, and dependents. The ERRP ceased accepting applications after May 5, 2011. PNC submitted an application for reimbursement from the ERRP
in 2011 for the 2010 and 2011 plan years. In 2011, PNC received reimbursement of $.6 million related to the 2010 plan year. The reimbursement for the 2011 plan year is not reflected in the above financial statements because the reimbursement of $.9
million was not approved until 2012. These reimbursements will be used to offset increases in the employer’s costs of maintaining coverage.
 
 
166    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

PNC PENSION PLAN ASSETS 
Assets related to our qualified pension plan (the Plan) are held in trust (the Trust). Effective July 1, 2011, the trustee is The Bank of New York
Mellon; prior to that date, the trustee was PNC Bank, National Association, (PNC Bank, N.A). The Trust is exempt from tax pursuant to section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code). The Plan is qualified under section 401(a) of the Code.
Plan assets consist primarily of listed domestic and international equity securities and US government, agency, and corporate debt securities and real estate investments. Plan assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 include common stock of PNC.
PNC Common Stock was $11 million and $12 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, this accounted for less than 1% of our total asset balance. 
The Pension Plan Administrative Committee (the Committee) adopted a current Pension Plan Investment Policy Statement, including target allocations and
allowable ranges, on August 13, 2008. On February 25, 2010, the Committee amended the investment policy to include a dynamic asset allocation approach and also updated target allocation ranges for certain asset categories. On March 1,
2011, the Committee amended the investment policy to update the target allocation ranges for certain asset categories.  The long-term
investment strategy for pension plan assets is to: 


 
•
 
 Meet present and future benefit obligations to all participants and beneficiaries, 


 
•
 
 Cover reasonable expenses incurred to provide such benefits, including expenses incurred in the administration of the Trust and the Plan,



 
•
 
 Provide sufficient liquidity to meet benefit and expense payment requirements on a timely basis, and 


 
•
 
 Provide a total return that, over the long term, maximizes the ratio of trust assets to liabilities by maximizing investment return, at an appropriate
level of risk.  Under the dynamic asset allocation strategy, scenarios are outlined in which the Committee has the ability
to make short to intermediate term asset allocation shifts based on factors such as the Plan’s funded status, the Committee’s view of return on equities relative to long term expectations, the Committee’s view on the direction of
interest rates and credit spreads, and other relevant financial or economic factors which would be expected to impact the ability of the Trust to meet its obligation to beneficiaries. Accordingly, the allowable asset allocation ranges have been
updated to incorporate the flexibility required by the dynamic allocation policy.  The Plan’s specific investment objective is to meet or
exceed the investment policy benchmark over the long term. The investment policy benchmark compares actual performance to a weighted market index, and measures the contribution of


active investment management and policy implementation. This investment objective is expected to be achieved over the long term (one or more market cycles) and is measured over rolling five-year
periods. Total return calculations are time-weighted and are net of investment-related fees and expenses.  The asset strategy allocations for
the Trust at the end of 2011 and 2010, and the target allocation range at the end of 2011, by asset category, are as follows:  Asset
Strategy Allocations   
















 
  
 Target
Allocation
Range
 
 
 Percentage
of Plan Assets
by Strategy atDecember 31
 

PNC Pension Plan
  
  
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Asset Category
  



 



 


 

 Domestic Equity
  
 
20-40
% 
 
 
41
% 
 
 
40
% 

 International Equity
  
 
10-25
% 
 
 
21
% 
 
 
21
% 

 Private Equity
  
 
0-10
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
2
% 

 Total Equity
  
 
40-70
% 
 
 
65
% 
 
 
63
% 

 Domestic Fixed Income
  
 
20-40
% 
 
 
20
% 
 
 
24
% 

 High Yield Fixed Income
  
 
0-15
% 
 
 
12
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Total Fixed Income
  
 
20-55
% 
 
 
32
% 
 
 
34
% 

 Real estate
  
 
0-10
% 
 
 
3
% 
 
 
3
% 

 Other
  
 
0-5
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
0
% 

 Total
  
 
 
 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 The asset category represents the allocation of Plan assets in accordance with the investment objective of each of the
Plan’s investment managers. Certain domestic equity investment managers utilize derivatives and fixed income securities as described in their Investment Management Agreements to achieve their investment objective under the Investment Policy
Statement. Other investment managers may invest in eligible securities outside of their assigned asset category to meet their investment objectives. The actual percentage of the fair value of total plan assets held as of December 31, 2011 for
equity securities, fixed income securities, real estate and all other assets are 61%, 31%, 3%, and 5%, respectively.  We believe that, over
the long term, asset allocation is the single greatest determinant of risk. Asset allocation will deviate from the target percentages due to market movement, cash flows, investment manager performance and implementation of shifts under the dynamic
allocation policy. Material deviations from the asset allocation targets can alter the expected return and risk of the Trust. On the other hand, frequent rebalancing to the asset allocation targets may result in significant transaction costs, which
can impair the Trust’s ability to meet its investment objective. Accordingly, the Trust portfolio is periodically rebalanced to maintain asset allocation within the target ranges described above.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    167 


Table of Contents

In addition to being diversified across asset classes, the Trust is diversified within each asset class.
Secondary diversification provides a reasonable basis for the expectation that no single security or class of securities will have a disproportionate impact on the total risk and return of the Trust. 
The Committee selects investment managers for the Trust based on the contributions that their respective investment styles and processes are expected to
make to the investment performance of the overall portfolio. The managers’ Investment Objectives and Guidelines, which are a part of each manager’s Investment Management Agreement, document performance expectations and each manager’s
role in the portfolio. The Committee uses the Investment Objectives and Guidelines to establish, guide, control and measure the strategy and performance for each manager.  The purpose of investment manager guidelines is to: 


 
•
 
 Establish the investment objective and performance standards for each manager, 


 
•
 
 Provide the manager with the capability to evaluate the risks of all financial instruments or other assets in which the manager’s account is
invested, and 


 
•
 
 Prevent the manager from exposing its account to excessive levels of risk, undesired or inappropriate risk, or disproportionate concentration of risk.
 The guidelines also indicate which investments and strategies the manager is permitted to use to achieve its performance
objectives, and which investments and strategies it is prohibited from using.  Where public market investment strategies may include the use
of derivatives and/or currency management, language is incorporated in the managers’ guidelines to define allowable and prohibited transactions and/or strategies. Derivatives are typically employed by investment managers to modify risk/return
characteristics of their portfolio(s), implement asset allocation changes in a cost-effective manner, or reduce transaction costs. Under the managers’ investment guidelines, derivatives may not be used solely for speculation or leverage.
Derivatives are used only in circumstances where they offer the most efficient economic means of improving the risk/reward profile of the portfolio.  BlackRock receives compensation for providing investment management services. The Asset Management Group business segment also receives compensation for payor-related services, and received compensation
for providing trustee/custodian services prior to July 1, 2011. Compensation for such services is paid by PNC and was not significant for 2011, 2010 or 2009. Non-affiliate service providers for the Trust are compensated from plan assets.

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
As further described in Note 8 Fair Value, GAAP establishes the framework for measuring fair value, including a hierarchy used to classify the inputs used
in measuring fair value.  A description of the valuation methodologies used for assets measured at fair value follows. There have been no
changes in the methodologies used at December 31, 2011 compared with those in place at December 31, 2010: 


 
•
 
 Money market and mutual funds are valued at the net asset value of the shares held by the pension plan at year-end. 


 
•
 
 US government securities, corporate debt, common stock and preferred stock are valued at the closing price reported on the active market on which the
individual securities are traded. If quoted market prices are not available for the specific security, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics. Such securities are generally
classified within level 2 of the valuation hierarchy but may be a level 3 depending on the level of liquidity and activity in the market for the security. 


 
•
 
 The collective trust fund investments are valued based upon the units of such collective trust fund held by the plan at year end multiplied by the
respective unit value. The unit value of the collective trust fund is based upon significant observable inputs, although it is not based upon quoted marked prices in an active market. The underlying investments of the collective trust funds consist
primarily of equity securities, debt obligations, short-term investments, and other marketable securities. Due to the nature of these securities, there are no unfunded commitments or redemption restrictions. 


 
•
 
 Limited partnerships are valued by investment managers based on recent financial information used to estimate fair value. Other investments held by the
pension plan include derivative financial instruments and real estate, which are recorded at estimated fair value as determined by third-party appraisals and pricing models, and group annuity contracts which are measured at fair value by discounting
the related cash flows based on current yields of similar instruments with comparable durations considering the credit-worthiness of the issuer.  These methods may result in fair value calculations that may not be indicative of net realizable values or future fair values. Furthermore, while the pension plan believes its valuation methods are
appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair value measurement at the reporting date.
 
 
168    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth by level, within the fair value hierarchy, the Plan’s assets at fair
value as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:  Pension Plan Assets – Fair Value Hierarchy 
 




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements Using:
 

In millions
  
December 312011Fair Value
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive MarketsFor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

 Cash
  
$
2
 
  
$
2
 
  



  


 

 Money market funds
  
 
137
 
  
 
135
 
  
$
2
 
  


 

 US government and agency securities
  
 
395
 
  
 
114
 
  
 
281
 
  


 

 Corporate debt (a)
  
 
799
 
  



  
 
722
 
  
$
77
 

 Common stock
  
 
933
 
  
 
933
 
  



  


 

 Preferred stock
  
 
13
 
  
 
9
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
2
 

 Mutual funds
  
 
37
 
  



  
 
37
 
  


 

 Interest in Collective Funds (b)
  
 
1,314
 
  



  
 
937
 
  
 
377
 

 Limited partnerships
  
 
130
 
  



  



  
 
130
 

 Other
  
 
45
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
16
 
  
 
27
 

 Total
  
$
3,805
 
  
$
1,195
 
  
$
1,997
 
  
$
613
 
  




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements Using:
 

In millions
  
December 312010Fair Value
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive MarketsFor IdenticalAssets (Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

 Cash
  
$
5
 
  
$
5
 
  



  


 

 Money market funds
  
 
108
 
  



  
$
108
 
  


 

 US government and agency securities
  
 
518
 
  
 
267
 
  
 
251
 
  


 

 Corporate debt (a)
  
 
916
 
  
 
8
 
  
 
555
 
  
$
353
 

 Common stock
  
 
1,153
 
  
 
652
 
  
 
501
 
  


 

 Preferred Stock
  
 
42
 
  



  
 
42
 
  


 

 Mutual funds
  
 
36
 
  



  
 
36
 
  


 

 Interest in Collective Funds (b)
  
 
1,016
 
  



  
 
646
 
  
 
370
 

 Limited partnerships
  
 
75
 
  



  



  
 
75
 

 Other
  
 
122
 
  
 
14
 
  
 
77
 
  
 
31
 

 Total
  
$
3,991
 
  
$
946
 
  
$
2,216
 
  
$
829
 



(a)
Corporate debt includes $106 million and $175 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



(b)
The benefit plans own commingled funds that invest in equity and fixed income securities. The commingled funds that invest in equity securities seek to mirror the
performance of the S&P 500 Index, Russell 3000 Index, Morgan Stanley Capital International ACWI X US Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Select Real Estate Securities Index. The commingled fund that holds fixed income securities invests in domestic
investment grade securities and seeks to mimic the performance of the Barclays Aggregate Bond Index. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    169 


Table of Contents
The following summarizes changes in the fair value of the pension plan’s Level 3 assets during 2011 and
2010:  Rollforward of Pension Plan Level 3 Assets 
 
























In millions
  
Interest inCommonCollectiveFunds
 
 
CorporateDebt
 
 
LimitedPartnership
 
 
Other
 
 
PreferredStock
 

 January 1, 2011
  
$
370
 
 
$
353
 
 
$
75
 
 
$
31
 
 


 

 Net realized gain on sale of investments
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
3
 
 


 

 Net unrealized gain/(loss) on assets held at end of year
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
55
 
 
 
(4
) 
 
$
(1
) 

 Purchases
  
 
27
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
3
 

 Sales
  



 
 
(184
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 


 

 Transfers into Level 3
  



 
 
30
 
 



 



 


 

 Transfers (from) Level 3
  
 
 
 
 
 
(130
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
377
 
 
$
77
 
 
$
130
 
 
$
27
 
 
$
2
 
  




















In millions
  
Interest inCommonCollectiveFunds
 
  
CorporateDebt
 
 
LimitedPartnerships
 
  
Other
 

 January 1, 2010
  
$
57
 
  
$
117
 
 
$
62
 
  
$
44
 

 Net realized gain on sale of investments
  



  
 
37
 
 
 
6
 
  
 
4
 

 Net unrealized gain/(loss) on assets held at end of year
  
 
99
 
  
 
(48
) 
 
 
3
 
  
 
(15
) 

 Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements (net)
  
 
214
 
  
 
214
 
 
 
4
 
  
 
1
 

 Transfers into (from) Level 3
  
 
 
 
  
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
(3
) 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
370
 
  
$
353
 
 
$
75
 
  
$
31
 
 The following table provides information regarding our estimated future cash flows related to our various plans:
 Estimated Cash Flows   




















 
  
Postretirement Benefits
 

In millions
  
QualifiedPension
 
  
NonqualifiedPension
 
  
Gross PNCBenefit Payments
 
  
Reduction in PNCBenefit PaymentsDue to MedicarePart D Subsidy
 

 Estimated 2012 employer contributions
  
 
 
 
  
$
30
 
  
$
36
 
  
$
2
 

 Estimated future benefit payments
  



  



  



  


 

 2012
  
$
251
 
  
$
30
 
  
$
36
 
  
$
2
 

 2013
  
 
263
 
  
 
30
 
  
 
33
 
  
 
2
 

 2014
  
 
274
 
  
 
29
 
  
 
34
 
  
 
2
 

 2015
  
 
282
 
  
 
27
 
  
 
34
 
  
 
2
 

 2016
  
 
288
 
  
 
26
 
  
 
33
 
  
 
2
 

 2017-2021
  
 
1,578
 
  
 
108
 
  
 
156
 
  
 
8
 
 The qualified pension plan contributions are deposited into the Trust, and the qualified pension plan benefit payments
are paid from the Trust. Although the plan is underfunded as of December 31, 2011, PNC’s required qualified pension contribution for 2012 is expected to be zero based on the funding calculations under the Pension Protection Act of 2006.
For the other plans, total contributions and the benefit payments are the same and represent expected benefit amounts, which are paid from general assets. Postretirement benefits are net of participant contributions. 
 
170    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
The components of net periodic benefit cost/(income) and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive
income were as follows.  Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost 
 








































 
  
Qualified Pension Plan
 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plan
 
 
Postretirement Benefits
 

Year ended December 31 – in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net periodic cost consists of:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Service cost
  
$
94
 
 
$
102
 
 
$
90
 
 
$
4
 
 
$
3
 
 
$
2
 
 
$
7
 
 
$
5
 
 
$
4
 

 Interest cost
  
 
196
 
 
 
203
 
 
 
206
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
21
 

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(298
) 
 
 
(285
) 
 
 
(260
) 
 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 



 



 



 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(5
) 

 Amortization of actuarial losses
  
 
19
 
 
 
34
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Net periodic cost
  
 
3
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
117
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
20
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
20
 

 Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 


 

 Current year prior service cost/(credit)
  



 



 
 
(43
) 
 



 



 
 
2
 
 



 



 


 

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
8
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
2
 
 



 



 



 
 
3
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
5
 

 Current year actuarial loss/(gain)
  
 
579
 
 
 
(99
) 
 
 
(263
) 
 
 
15
 
 
 
11
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
21
 
 
 
21
 

 Amortization of actuarial (loss)
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
(83
) 
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total recognized in OCI
  
 
568
 
 
 
(125
) 
 
 
(387
) 
 
 
10
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
25
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
24
 
 
 
26
 

 Total recognized in net periodic cost and OCI
  
$
571
 
 
$
(79
) 
 
$
(270
) 
 
$
32
 
 
$
28
 
 
$
43
 
 
$
24
 
 
$
46
 
 
$
46
 

 

The weighted-average assumptions used (as of the beginning of each year) to determine net periodic costs
shown above were as follows:  Net Periodic Costs – Assumptions 
 
















 
  
Net Periodic Cost Determination
 

Year ended December 31
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Discount rate
  



 



 


 

 Qualified pension
  
 
5.20
% 
 
 
5.75
% 
 
 
6.05
% 

 Nonqualified pension
  
 
4.80
 
 
 
5.15
 
 
 
5.90
 

 Postretirement benefits
  
 
5.00
 
 
 
5.40
 
 
 
5.95
 

 Rate of compensation increase (average)
  
 
4.00
 
 
 
4.00
 
 
 
4.00
 

 Assumed health care cost trend rate
  



 



 


 

 Initial trend
  
 
8.00
 
 
 
8.50
 
 
 
9.00
 

 Ultimate trend
  
 
5.00
 
 
 
5.00
 
 
 
5.00
 

 Year ultimate reached
  
 
2019
 
 
 
2014
 
 
 
2014
 

 Expected long-term return on plan assets
  
 
7.75
 
 
 
8.00
 
 
 
8.25
 
 
The weighted-average assumptions used (as of the end of each year) to determine year-end obligations for
pension and postretirement benefits were as follows:  Other Pension Assumptions 
 












 
  
At December 31
 

Year ended December 31
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Discount rate
  



 


 

 Qualified pension
  
 
4.60
% 
 
 
5.20
% 

 Nonqualified pension
  
 
4.20
 
 
 
4.80
 

 Postretirement benefits
  
 
4.40
 
 
 
5.00
 

 Rate of compensation increase (average)
  
 
4.00
 
 
 
4.00
 

 Assumed health care cost trend rate
  



 


 

 Initial trend
  
 
8.00
 
 
 
8.00
 

 Ultimate trend
  
 
5.00
 
 
 
5.00
 

 Year ultimate reached
  
 
2019
 
 
 
2019
 
 The discount rates are determined independently for each plan by comparing the expected future benefits that will be paid
under each plan with yields available on high quality corporate bonds of similar duration. For this analysis, 10% of bonds with the highest yields and 40% with the lowest yields were removed from the bond universe. 
The expected return on plan assets is a long-term assumption established by considering historical and anticipated returns of the asset classes invested
in by the pension plan and the allocation strategy currently in place among those classes. We review this assumption at each measurement date and adjust it if warranted. This assumption remains at 7.75% for determining 2012 net periodic cost.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    171 


Table of Contents

The health care cost trend rate assumptions shown in the preceding tables relate only to the postretirement
benefit plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:  Effect of One
Percent Change in Assumed Health Care Cost   












 Year ended December 31, 2011 In millions
  
Increase
 
  
Decrease
 

 Effect on total service and interest cost
  
$
1
 
  
$
(1
) 

 Effect on year-end benefit obligation
  
$
13
 
  
$
(13
) 
 Unamortized actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs and credits are recognized in AOCI each December 31,
with amortization of these amounts through net periodic benefit cost. The estimated amounts that will be amortized in 2012 are as follows: 
Estimated Amortization of Unamortized Actuarial Gains and Losses – 2012 
 
















 
  
2012 Estimate
 

 Year ended December 31 In millions
  
QualifiedPension
 
 
NonqualifiedPension
 
  
PostretirementBenefits
 

 Prior service (credit)
  
$
(8
) 
 



  
$
(3
) 

 Net actuarial loss
  
 
88
 
 
$
6
 
  
 
2
 

 Total
  
$
80
 
 
$
6
 
  
$
(1
) 
 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS 
We have a qualified defined contribution plan that covers all eligible PNC employees. Effective January 1, 2010, the employer matching contribution
under the PNC Incentive Savings Plan was reduced from a maximum of 6% to 4% of a participant’s eligible compensation. Certain changes to the plan’s eligibility and vesting requirements also became effective January 1, 2010. Employees
hired prior to January 1, 2010 became 100% vested immediately, while employees hired on or after January 1, 2010 become vested 100% after three years of service. Employee benefits expense related to defined contribution plans was $105
million in 2011, $90 million in 2010 and $136 million in 2009. We measure employee benefits expense as the fair value of the shares and cash contributed to the plan by PNC.  Under the PNC Incentive Savings Plan, employee contributions up to 4% of eligible compensation as defined by the plan are matched 100%, subject to Code limitations. PNC will contribute a minimum matching
contribution of $2,000 to employees who contribute at least 4% of eligible compensation every pay period during the year . This amount is prorated for certain employees, including part-time employees and those who are eligible for the company match
for less than a full year. Additionally, for participants who meet the annual deferral limit or the annual compensation limit before the end of a calendar year, PNC makes a true-up matching contribution to ensure that such participants receive the
full company match available. The plan is a 401(k) Plan


and includes a stock ownership (ESOP) feature. Employee contributions are invested in a number of mutual fund investment options available under the plan at the direction of the employee.
Although employees were also historically permitted to direct the investment of their contributions into the PNC common stock fund, this fund was frozen to future investments of such contributions effective January 1, 2010. All shares of PNC
common stock held by the plan are part of the ESOP. Employee contributions to the plan for 2010 and 2009 were matched primarily by shares of PNC common stock held in treasury or reserve, except in the case of those participants who have exercised
their diversification election rights to have their matching portion in other investments available within the plan. Effective January 1, 2011, employer matching contributions are now made in cash. 
Prior to July 1, 2010, PNC sponsored a separate qualified defined contribution plan that covered substantially all US-based GIS employees not
covered by our plan. The plan was a 401(k) plan and included an ESOP feature. Under this plan, employee contributions of up to 6% of eligible compensation as defined by the plan were eligible to be matched annually based on GIS performance levels.
Employee benefits expense for this plan was $6 million in 2010, and $8 million in 2009. We measured employee benefits expense as the fair value of the shares and cash contributed to the plan. As described in Note 2 Divestiture, on July 1, 2010
we sold GIS. Plan assets of $239 million were transferred to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation 401(k) Savings Plan on that date. Prior to July 1, 2010, the Plan continued to operate under the provisions of the original plan document, as
amended.  We also maintain a nonqualified supplemental savings plan for certain employees, known as The PNC Supplemental Incentive Savings
Plan. Effective January 1, 2010, the employer match was discontinued in that plan. Effective January 1, 2012, the Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan was frozen to new participants and for any deferrals of amounts earned on or after such
date. It was replaced by a new plan called the Deferred Compensation and Incentive Plan. 
NOTE 15 STOCK BASED COMPENSATION PLANS 
We have long-term incentive award plans (Incentive Plans) that provide for the granting of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock
options, stock appreciation rights, incentive shares/performance units, restricted stock, restricted share units, other share-based awards and dollar-denominated awards to executives and, other than incentive stock options, to non-employee
directors. Certain Incentive Plan awards may be paid in stock, cash or a combination of stock and cash. We typically grant a substantial portion of our stock-based compensation awards during the first quarter of the year. As of December 31,
2011, no stock appreciation rights were outstanding. Total compensation expense recognized related to all share-based payment arrangements during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $103 million, $107 million and $93 million, respectively.
 
 
172    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTIONS 
Options are granted at exercise prices not less than the market value of common stock on the grant date. Generally, options become exercisable in
installments after the grant date. No option may be exercisable after 10 years from its grant date. Payment of the option exercise price may be in cash or by surrendering shares of common stock at market value on the exercise date. The exercise
price may be paid in previously owned shares.  Generally, options granted under the Incentive Plans vest ratably over a three-year period as
long as the grantee remains an employee or, in certain cases, retires from PNC. In accordance with FASB ASC 718, Stock Compensation, we recognize compensation expense for options granted to retirement-eligible employees during the first
twelve months subsequent to the grant, in accordance with the service period provisions of the options.  OPTION
PRICING ASSUMPTIONS  For purposes of computing stock option expense, we estimated the fair value of stock
options primarily by using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Option pricing models require the use of numerous assumptions, many of which are subjective. 
 

We used the following assumptions in the option pricing models to determine 2011, 2010 and 2009 option
expense: 


 
•
 
 The risk-free interest rate is based on the US Treasury yield curve, 


 
•
 
 The dividend yield typically represents average yields over the previous three-year period, however starting with the grants made after the first
quarter of 2009, we used a yield indicative of our currently reduced dividend rate, 


 
•
 
 Volatility is measured using the fluctuation in month-end closing stock prices over a period which corresponds with the average expected option life,
but in no case less than a five-year period, and 


 
•
 
 The expected life assumption represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding and is based on a weighted-average of
historical option activity.  Option Pricing Assumptions 
 
















 Weighted-average for the year ended December 31
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.8
% 
 
 
2.9
% 
 
 
1.9
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
0.6
 
 
 
0.7
 
 
 
3.5
 

 Volatility
  
 
34.7
 
 
 
32.7
 
 
 
27.3
 

 Expected life
  
 
5.9 yrs.
  
 
 
6.0 yrs.
  
 
 
5.6 yrs.
  

 Grant date fair value
  
$
22.82
 
 
$
19.54
 
 
$
5.73
 
  
  Stock Option Rollforward –
2011   




































  
  
PNC
 
  
PNC OptionsConverted FromNational City
 
  
Total
 

 Year ended December 31, 2011 In thousands, except weighted-average data
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualLife
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding, January 1
  
 
19,825
 
 
$
56.36
 
  
 
1,214
 
 
$
678.09
 
  
 
21,039
 
 
$
92.25
 
  



  


 

 Granted
  
 
833
 
 
 
64.04
 
  



 


 
  
 
833
 
 
 
64.04
 
  



  


 

 Exercised
  
 
(769
) 
 
 
53.78
 
  



 


 
  
 
(769
) 
 
 
53.78
 
  



  


 

 Cancelled
  
 
(2,399
) 
 
 
73.58
 
  
 
(265
) 
 
 
655.54
 
  
 
(2,664
) 
 
 
131.52
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Outstanding, December 31
  
 
17,490
 
 
$
54.48
 
  
 
949
 
 
$
684.40
 
  
 
18,439
 
 
$
86.90
 
  
 
5.3 years
  
  
$
126,535
 

 Vested and expected to vest, December 31 (a)
  
 
17,311
 
 
$
54.55
 
  
 
949
 
 
$
684.40
 
  
 
18,260
 
 
$
87.29
 
  
 
5.3 years
  
  
$
124,339
 

 Exercisable, December 31
  
 
11,388
 
 
$
57.87
 
  
 
949
 
 
$
684.40
 
  
 
12,337
 
 
$
106.08
 
  
 
4.2 years
  
  
$
53,567
 



(a)
Adjusted for estimated forfeitures on unvested options. 
 

To determine stock-based compensation expense, the grant-date fair value is applied to the options granted
with a reduction for estimated forfeitures. We recognize compensation expense for stock options on a straight-line basis over the pro rata vesting period.  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, options for 13,397,000 and 12,722,000 shares of common stock, respectively, were exercisable at a weighted-average price of $118.21 and $132.52, respectively. The total
intrinsic value of options


exercised during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4 million, $5 million and $1 million, respectively.  Cash received from option exercises under all Incentive Plans for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $41 million, $15 million and $5 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized for tax
deduction purposes from option exercises under all Incentive Plans for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $14 million, $5 million and $2 million, respectively.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    173 


Table of Contents

There were no options granted in excess of market value in 2011, 2010 or 2009. Shares of common stock
available during the next year for the granting of options and other awards under the Incentive Plans were 33,775,543 at December 31, 2011. Total shares of PNC common stock authorized for future issuance under equity compensation plans totaled
35,304,422 shares at December 31, 2011, which includes shares available for issuance under the Incentive Plans and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) as described below.  During 2011, we issued 731,336 shares from treasury stock in connection with stock option exercise activity. As with past exercise activity, we currently intend to utilize primarily treasury stock for any
future stock option exercises.  Awards granted to non-employee directors in 2011, 2010 and 2009 include 27,090, 29,040, and 39,552 deferred
stock units, respectively, awarded under the Outside Directors Deferred Stock Unit Plan. A deferred stock unit is a phantom share of our common stock, which requires liability accounting treatment until such awards are paid to the participants as
cash. As there are no vesting or service requirements on these awards, total compensation expense is recognized in full on awarded deferred stock units on the date of grant.  INCENTIVE/PERFORMANCE UNIT SHARE AWARDS AND RESTRICTED
STOCK/UNIT AWARDS  The fair value of nonvested incentive/performance unit share awards and
restricted stock/unit awards is initially determined based on prices not less than the market value of our common stock price on the date of grant. The value of certain incentive/performance unit share awards is subsequently remeasured based on the
achievement of one or more financial and other performance goals generally over a three-year period. The Personnel and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approves the final award payout with respect to incentive/performance unit share
awards. Restricted stock/unit awards have various vesting periods generally ranging from 36 months to 60 months.  Beginning in 2011, we
incorporated two changes to certain awards under our existing long-term incentive compensation programs. First, for certain grants of incentive performance units, the future payout amount will be subject to a negative annual adjustment if PNC fails
to meet certain risk-related performance metrics. This adjustment is in addition to the existing financial performance metrics relative to our peers. These grants have a three-year performance period and are payable in either stock or a combination
of stock and cash. Second, performance-based restricted share units (performance RSUs) were granted in 2011 to certain of our executives in lieu of stock options. These performance RSUs


(which are payable solely in stock) have a service condition, an internal risk-related performance condition, and an external market condition. Satisfaction of the performance condition is based
on four independent one-year performance periods.  The weighted-average grant-date fair value of incentive/performance unit share awards and
restricted stock/unit awards granted in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $63.25, $54.59 and $41.16 per share, respectively. We recognize compensation expense for such awards ratably over the corresponding vesting and/or performance periods for each type of
program.  Nonvested Incentive/Performance Unit Share Awards and Restricted Stock/Unit Awards – Rollforward 
 




















Shares in thousands
  
NonvestedIncentive/PerformanceUnit Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrantDate FairValue
 
  
NonvestedRestrictedStock/UnitShares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrantDate FairValue
 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
363
 
 
$
56.40
 
  
 
2,250
 
 
$
49.95
 

 Granted
  
 
623
 
 
 
64.21
 
  
 
1,059
 
 
 
62.68
 

 Vested
  
 
(156
) 
 
 
59.54
 
  
 
(706
) 
 
 
51.27
 

 Forfeited
  



 


 
  
 
(91
) 
 
 
52.24
 

 December 31, 2011
  
 
830
 
 
$
61.68
 
  
 
2,512
 
 
$
54.87
 
 In the chart above, the unit shares and related weighted-average grant-date fair value of the incentive/performance
awards exclude the effect of dividends on the underlying shares, as those dividends will be paid in cash.  At December 31, 2011, there
was $61 million of unrecognized deferred compensation expense related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the Incentive Plans. This cost is expected to be recognized as expense over a period of no longer than five years.
The total fair value of incentive/performance unit share and restricted stock/unit awards vested during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $52 million, $39 million and $47 million, respectively. 
LIABILITY AWARDS  We grant annually cash-payable restricted share units to certain executives. The grants were made primarily as part of an annual bonus incentive deferral plan. While there are time-based and
service-related vesting criteria, there are no market or performance criteria associated with these awards. Compensation expense recognized related to these awards was recorded in prior periods as part of annual cash bonus criteria. As of
December 31, 2011, there were 753,203 of these cash-payable restricted share units outstanding.  
 
174    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

A summary of all nonvested, cash-payable restricted share unit activity follows: 
Nonvested Cash-Payable Restricted Share Units – Rollforward 
 












In thousands
  
NonvestedCash-PayableRestrictedShareUnits
 
 
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,112
 
 


 

 Granted
  
 
525
 
 


 

 Vested
  
 
(547
) 
 


 

 Forfeited
  
 
(38
) 
 


 

 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,052
 
 
$
60,688
 
 The total of all share-based liability awards paid out during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $34 million, $9
million and $2 million, respectively.  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
 As of December 31, 2011, our ESPP had approximately 1.5 million shares available for issuance. Full-time employees with six
months and part-time employees with 12 months of continuous employment with a participating PNC entity are eligible to participate in the ESPP at the commencement of the next six-month offering period. Eligible participants may purchase our common
stock at 95% of the fair market value on the last day of each six-month offering period. No charge to earnings is recorded with respect to the ESPP.  Employee Stock Purchase Plan – Summary   












Year ended December 31
  
Shares Issued
 
  
Purchase Price Per Share
 

 2011
  
 
165,408
 
  
$
56.63 and $54.79
  

 2010
  
 
147,177
 
  
 
53.68 and 57.68
  

 2009
  
 
158,536
 
  
 
36.87 and 50.15
  
 BLACKROCK LTIP AND EXCHANGE AGREEMENTS
 BlackRock adopted the 2002 LTIP program to help attract and retain qualified professionals. At that time, PNC agreed to transfer up to
4 million shares of BlackRock common stock to partially fund a portion of the 2002 LTIP program and future LTIP programs approved by BlackRock’s board of directors, subject to certain conditions and limitations. As of December 31,
2010, approximately 1.1 million shares of BlackRock common stock had been transferred by PNC and distributed to LTIP participants in connection with the 2002 LTIP program.  In 2007, BlackRock also granted awards under an LTIP program. BlackRock achieved the earnings performance goals required by these awards and the awards vested on September 29, 2011. On that date, PNC
transferred approximately 1.3 million shares of BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock to BlackRock to satisfy a portion of our LTIP


obligation. Upon transfer, Other assets and Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet were reduced by $172 million, representing the fair value of the shares transferred. 
At December 31, 2011, approximately 1.5 million shares of BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock were available to fund a portion of awards under
future BlackRock LTIP programs.  As previously reported, PNC entered into an Exchange Agreement with BlackRock on December 26, 2008. Also
on December 26, 2008, BlackRock entered into an Exchange Agreement with Merrill Lynch in anticipation of the consummation of the merger of Bank of America Corporation and Merrill Lynch that occurred on January 1, 2009. The PNC and Merrill
Lynch Exchange Agreements restructured PNC’s and Merrill Lynch’s respective ownership of BlackRock common and preferred equity. The transactions that resulted from our agreement restructured PNC’s ownership of BlackRock equity without
altering, to any meaningful extent, PNC’s economic interest in BlackRock. PNC continues to be subject to the limitations on its voting rights in its existing agreements with BlackRock.  The exchange contemplated by these agreements was completed on February 27, 2009. On that date, PNC’s obligation to deliver its BlackRock common shares to BlackRock under LTIP programs was also
replaced with an obligation to deliver shares of BlackRock’s Series C Preferred Stock as part of the exchange agreement. PNC acquired 2.9 million shares of Series C Preferred Stock from BlackRock in exchange for common shares. 
PNC’s noninterest income in 2009 included a pretax gain of $98 million related to our BlackRock LTIP shares obligation. This gain represented the
mark-to-market adjustment related to our remaining BlackRock LTIP common shares obligation and resulted from the decrease in the market value of BlackRock common shares in 2009 prior to the February 27, 2009 exchange. 
PNC accounts for its BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock at fair value, which offsets the impact of marking-to-market the obligation to deliver these
shares to BlackRock. The fair value of the BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock is included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in the caption Other assets. Additional information regarding the valuation of the BlackRock Series C Preferred Stock is
included in Note 8 Fair Value. 
NOTE 16 FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES 
We use derivative financial instruments (derivatives) primarily to help manage exposure to interest rate, market and credit risk and
reduce the effects that changes in interest rates may have on net income, fair value of assets and liabilities, and cash flows. We also enter into derivatives with customers to facilitate their risk management activities.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    175 


Table of Contents

Derivatives represent contracts between parties that usually require little or no initial net investment
and result in one party delivering cash or another type of asset to the other party based on a notional amount and an underlying as specified in the contract. Derivative transactions are often measured in terms of notional amount, but this amount is
generally not exchanged and it is not recorded on the balance sheet. The notional amount is the basis to which the underlying is applied to determine required payments under the derivative contract. The underlying is a referenced interest rate
(commonly LIBOR), security price, credit spread or other index. Residential and commercial real estate loan commitments associated with loans to be sold also qualify as derivative instruments. 
All derivatives are carried on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. Derivative balances are presented on a net basis taking into consideration
the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements. Cash collateral exchanged with counterparties is also netted against the applicable derivative fair values.  Further discussion on how derivatives are accounted for is included in Note 1 Accounting Policies. 
DERIVATIVES DESIGNATED IN HEDGE RELATIONSHIPS 
Certain derivatives used to manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability risk management activities are designated as accounting hedges
under GAAP. Derivatives hedging the risks associated with changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities are considered fair value hedges, derivatives hedging the variability of expected future cash flows are considered cash flow hedges, and
derivatives hedging a net investment in a foreign subsidiary are considered net investment hedges. Designating derivatives as accounting hedges allows for gains and losses on those derivatives, to the extent effective, to be recognized in the income
statement in the same period the hedged items affect earnings.  Fair Value Hedges 
We enter into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt and borrowings caused by
fluctuations in market interest rates. The specific products hedged may include bank notes, Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings, and senior and subordinated debt. We also enter into pay-fixed, receive-variable interest rate swaps, and zero-coupon
swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of fixed rate and zero-coupon investment securities caused by fluctuations in market interest rates. The specific products hedged include US Treasury, government agency and other debt securities. For these
hedge relationships, we use statistical regression analysis to assess hedge effectiveness at both the inception of the hedge relationship and on an ongoing basis. There were no components of derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness. 
The ineffective portion of the change in value of our fair value hedge derivatives resulted in net losses
of $17 million for 2011 compared with net losses of $31 million for 2010 and net losses of $43 million for 2009.  Cash Flow Hedges
 We enter into receive-fixed, pay-variable interest rate swaps to modify the interest rate characteristics of designated commercial
loan interest payments from variable to fixed in order to reduce the impact of changes in future cash flows due to market interest rate changes. For these cash flow hedges, any changes in the fair value of the derivatives that are effective in
offsetting changes in the forecasted interest cash flows are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income and are reclassified to interest income in conjunction with the recognition of interest receipts on the loans. In the 12 months that
follow December 31, 2011, we expect to reclassify from the amount currently reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income net derivative gains of $382 million pretax, or $248 million after-tax, in association with interest receipts on the
hedged loans. This amount could differ from amounts actually recognized due to changes in interest rates, hedge de-designations, and the addition of other hedges subsequent to December 31, 2011. The maximum length of time over which forecasted
loan cash flows are hedged is 9 years. We use statistical regression analysis to assess the effectiveness of these hedge relationships at both the inception of the hedge relationship and on an ongoing basis. 
We also periodically enter into forward purchase and sale contracts to hedge the variability of the consideration that will be paid or received related
to the purchase or sale of investment securities. The forecasted purchase or sale is consummated upon gross settlement of the forward contract itself. As a result, hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is typically minimal. Gains and losses on these
forward contracts are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income and are recognized in earnings when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. In the 12 months that follow December 31, 2011, we expect to reclassify from the amount
currently reported in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net derivative gains of $72 million pretax, or $47 million after-tax, as adjustments of yield on investment securities. The maximum length of time we are hedging forecasted purchases is
four months. There were no amounts in Accumulated other comprehensive income related to the forecasted sale of securities at December 31, 2011.  There were no components of derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness related to either cash flow hedge strategy. 
During 2011 and 2010, there were no gains or losses from cash flow hedge derivatives reclassified to earnings because it became probable that the
original forecasted transaction would not occur. The amount of cash flow hedge ineffectiveness recognized in income for 2011 and 2010 was not material to PNC’s results of operations.
 
 
176    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

Net Investment Hedges  We enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge non-U.S. Dollar (USD) net investments in foreign subsidiaries against adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. We assess whether the
hedging relationship is highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in the value of the hedge and hedged item by qualitatively verifying the critical terms of the hedge and hedged item match at the inception of the hedging relationship and on
an ongoing basis. There were no components of derivative gains or losses excluded from the assessment of the hedge effectiveness.  At
December 31, 2011, there was no net investment hedge ineffectiveness and the loss recognized in Accumulated other comprehensive income was less than $1 million to PNC’s results of operations. 
Further detail regarding the notional amounts, fair values and gains and losses recognized related to derivatives used in fair value and cash flow hedge
strategies is presented in the tables that follow.  DERIVATIVES NOT DESIGNATED
IN HEDGE RELATIONSHIPS  We also enter into derivatives that are not designated as
accounting hedges under GAAP.  The majority of these derivatives are used to manage risk related to residential and commercial mortgage
banking activities and are considered economic hedges. Although these derivatives are used to hedge risk, they are not designated as accounting hedges because the contracts they are hedging are typically also carried at fair value on the balance
sheet, resulting in symmetrical accounting treatment for both the hedging instrument and the hedged item.  Our residential mortgage banking
activities consist of originating, selling and servicing mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans that will be sold in the secondary market, and the related loan commitments, which are considered derivatives, are accounted for at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of the loans and commitments due to interest rate risk are hedged with forward loan sale contracts as well as US Treasury and Eurodollar futures and options. Gains and losses on the loans and commitments held for sale and
the derivatives used to economically hedge them are included in residential mortgage noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement. 
We typically retain the servicing rights related to residential mortgage loans that we sell. Residential mortgage servicing rights are accounted for at
fair value with changes in fair value influenced primarily by changes in interest rates. Derivatives used to hedge the fair value of residential mortgage servicing rights include interest rate futures, swaps, options (including caps, floors, and
swaptions), and forward contracts to purchase mortgage-backed securities. Gains and losses on


residential mortgage servicing rights and the related derivatives used for hedging are included in Residential mortgage noninterest income. 
Certain commercial mortgage loans are also sold into the secondary market as part of our commercial mortgage banking activities and the loans, and the
related loan commitments, which are considered derivatives, are accounted for at fair value. Derivatives used to economically hedge these loans and commitments from changes in fair value due to interest rate risk and credit risk include forward loan
sale contracts, interest rate swaps, and credit default swaps. Gains and losses on the commitments, loans and derivatives are included in Other noninterest income.  The residential and commercial loan commitments associated with loans to be sold which are accounted for as derivatives are valued based on the estimated fair value of the underlying loan and the
probability that the loan will fund within the terms of the commitment. The fair value also takes into account the fair value of the embedded servicing right.  We offer derivatives to our customers in connection with their risk management needs. These derivatives primarily consist of interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, floors, swaptions, foreign exchange
contracts, and equity contracts. We primarily manage our market risk exposure from customer transactions by entering into a variety of hedging transactions with third-party dealers. Gains and losses on customer-related derivatives are included in
Other noninterest income.  The derivatives portfolio also includes derivatives used for other risk management activities. These derivatives
are entered into based on stated risk management objectives.  This segment of the portfolio includes credit default swaps (CDS) used to
mitigate the risk of economic loss on a portion of our loan exposure. We also sell loss protection to mitigate the net premium cost and the impact of mark-to-market accounting on CDS purchases to hedge the loan portfolio. The fair values of these
derivatives typically are based on related credit spreads. Gains and losses on the derivatives entered into for other risk management are included in Other noninterest income.  Included in the customer, mortgage banking risk management, and other risk management portfolios are written interest-rate caps and floors entered into with customers and for risk management purposes. We
receive an upfront premium from the counterparty and are obligated to make payments to the counterparty if the underlying market interest rate rises above or falls below a certain level designated in the contract. At December 31, 2011, the fair
value of the written caps and floors liability on our Consolidated Balance Sheet was $6 million compared with $15 million at December 31, 2010. Our ultimate obligation under written options is based on future market conditions and is only
quantifiable at settlement.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    177 


Table of Contents

Further detail regarding the derivatives not designated in hedging relationships is presented in the tables
that follow.  DERIVATIVE COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK 
By entering into derivative contracts we are exposed to credit risk. We seek to minimize credit risk through internal credit approvals, limits, monitoring
procedures, executing master netting agreements and collateral requirements. We generally enter into transactions with counterparties that carry high quality credit ratings. Nonperformance risk including credit risk is included in the determination
of the estimated net fair value.  We generally have established agreements with our major derivative dealer counterparties that provide for
exchanges of marketable securities or cash to collateralize either party’s positions. At December 31, 2011, we held cash, US government securities and mortgage-backed securities totaling $1.2 billion under these agreements. We pledged cash
and US government securities of $851 million under these agreements. To the extent not netted against derivative fair values under a master netting agreement, the receivable for cash pledged is included in Other assets and the obligation for cash
held is included in Other borrowed funds on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  The credit risk associated with derivatives executed with
customers is essentially the same as that involved in extending loans and is subject to normal credit policies. We may obtain collateral based on our assessment of the customer’s credit quality.

We periodically enter into risk participation agreements to share some of the credit exposure with other
counterparties related to interest rate derivative contracts or to take on credit exposure to generate revenue. We will make/receive payments under these agreements if a customer defaults on its obligation to perform under certain derivative swap
contracts. Risk participation agreements are included in the derivatives table that follows. Our exposure related to risk participations where we sold protection is discussed in the Credit Derivatives section below. 
CONTINGENT FEATURES  Some of PNC’s derivative instruments contain provisions that require PNC’s debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating from each of the major credit rating agencies. If PNC’s debt
ratings were to fall below investment grade, it would be in violation of these provisions, and the counterparties to the derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on
derivative instruments in net liability positions.  The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with credit-risk-related contingent
features that were in a net liability position on December 31, 2011 was $1.1 billion for which PNC had posted collateral of $845 million in the normal course of business. The maximum amount of collateral PNC would have been required to post if
the credit-risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements had been triggered on December 31, 2011, would be an additional $271 million.
 
 
178    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Derivatives Total Notional or Contractual Amounts and Estimated Net Fair Values 
 






































 
  
Asset Derivatives
 
 
  
  
Liability Derivatives
 

 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 
 
  
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

In millions
  
Notional/ContractAmount
 
  
FairValue (a)
 
  
Notional/ContractAmount
 
  
FairValue (a)
 
 
  
  
Notional/ContractAmount
 
  
FairValue (b)
 
  
Notional/ContractAmount
 
  
FairValue (b)
 

 Derivatives designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Cash flow hedges
  
$
16,542
 
  
$
572
 
  
$
13,635
 
  
$
377
 
 
 
  
$
93
 
  



  
$
3,167
 
  
$
53
 

 Fair value hedges
  
 
10,476
 
  
 
1,316
 
  
 
9,878
 
  
 
878
 
 
 
  
 
1,797
 
  
$
116
 
  
 
1,594
 
  
 
32
 

 Foreign exchange contracts:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Net investment hedge
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
326
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Total derivatives designated as hedging instruments
  
$
27,018
 
  
$
1,888
 
  
$
23,513
 
  
$
1,255
 
 
 
  
$
2,216
 
  
$
116
 
  
$
4,761
 
  
$
85
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under GAAP
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Derivatives used for residential mortgage banking activities:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Residential mortgage servicingInterest rate contracts
  
$
122,395
 
  
$
3,390
 
  
$
112,236
 
  
$
1,490
 
 
 
  
$
63,226
 
  
$
2,854
 
  
$
66,476
 
  
$
1,419
 

 Loan salesInterest rate contracts
  
 
7,394
 
  
 
68
 
  
 
11,765
 
  
 
119
 
 
 
  
 
3,976
 
  
 
39
 
  
 
3,585
 
  
 
31
 

 Subtotal
  
$
129,789
 
  
$
3,458
 
  
$
124,001
 
  
$
1,609
 
 
 
  
$
67,202
 
  
$
2,893
 
  
$
70,061
 
  
$
1,450
 

 Derivatives used for commercial mortgage banking activities:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
1,476
 
  
$
54
 
  
$
1,159
 
  
$
75
 
 
 
  
$
1,149
 
  
$
80
 
  
$
1,813
 
  
$
111
 

 Credit contracts:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Credit default swaps
  
 
95
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
210
 
  
 
8
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Subtotal
  
$
1,571
 
  
$
59
 
  
$
1,369
 
  
$
83
 
 
 
  
$
1,149
 
  
$
80
 
  
$
1,813
 
  
$
111
 

 Derivatives used for customer-related activities:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
73,751
 
  
$
3,804
 
  
$
54,060
 
  
$
2,611
 
 
 
  
$
68,981
 
  
$
3,943
 
  
$
49,619
 
  
$
2,703
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
6,088
 
  
 
231
 
  
 
3,659
 
  
 
149
 
 
 
  
 
5,832
 
  
 
222
 
  
 
4,254
 
  
 
155
 

 Equity contracts
  
 
118
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
195
 
  
 
16
 
 
 
  
 
66
 
  
 
8
 
  
 
139
 
  
 
19
 

 Credit contracts:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Risk participation agreements
  
 
1,691
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
1,371
 
  
 
5
 
 
 
  
 
1,568
 
  
 
5
 
  
 
1,367
 
  
 
2
 

 Subtotal
  
$
81,648
 
  
$
4,046
 
  
$
59,285
 
  
$
2,781
 
 
 
  
$
76,447
 
  
$
4,178
 
  
$
55,379
 
  
$
2,879
 

 Derivatives used for other risk management activities:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
2,190
 
  
$
6
 
  
$
3,420
 
  
$
20
 
 
 
  
$
1,479
 
  
$
39
 
  
$
1,099
 
  
$
9
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  



  



  



  



 
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
32
 
  
 
4
 

 Credit contracts:
  



  



  



  



 
 
  



  



  



  


 

 Credit default swaps
  
 
209
 
  
 
6
 
  
 
376
 
  
 
9
 
 
 
  



  



  
 
175
 
  
 
1
 

 Other contracts (c)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
386
 
  
 
296
 
  
 
209
 
  
 
396
 

 Subtotal
  
$
2,399
 
  
$
12
 
  
$
3,796
 
  
$
29
 
 
 
  
$
1,890
 
  
$
339
 
  
$
1,515
 
  
$
410
 

 Total derivatives not designated as hedging instruments
  
$
215,407
 
  
$
7,575
 
  
$
188,451
 
  
$
4,502
 
 
 
  
$
146,688
 
  
$
7,490
 
  
$
128,768
 
  
$
4,850
 

 Total Gross Derivatives
  
$
242,425
 
  
$
9,463
 
  
$
211,964
 
  
$
5,757
 
 
 
  
$
148,904
 
  
$
7,606
 
  
$
133,529
 
  
$
4,935
 

 Less: Legally enforceable master netting agreements
  



  
 
6,052
 
  



  
 
3,203
 
 
 
  



  
 
6,052
 
  



  
 
3,203
 

 Less: Cash collateral
  
 
 
 
  
 
1,051
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
659
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
843
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
674
 

 Total Net Derivatives
  
 
 
 
  
$
2,360
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
1,895
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
711
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
1,058
 
  


(a)
Included in Other Assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(b)
Included in Other Liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. 


(c)
Includes PNC’s obligation to fund a portion of certain BlackRock LTIP programs and other contracts. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    179 


Table of Contents
Gains (losses) on derivative instruments and related hedged items follow: 
Derivatives Designated in GAAP Hedge Relationships – Fair Value Hedges 
 
























 
  
 
  
 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 Year ended In millions
  
 
  
 
  
Gain(Loss) onDerivativesRecognizedin Income
 
 
Gain (Loss)on RelatedHedgedItemsRecognizedin Income
 
 
Gain(Loss) onDerivativesRecognizedin Income
 
 
Gain (Loss)on RelatedHedgedItemsRecognizedin Income
 

  
Hedged Items
  
Location
  
Amount
 
 
Amount
 
 
Amount
 
 
Amount
 

 Interest rate contracts
  
US Treasury and Government Agencies Securities
  
Investment securities (interest income)
  
$
(153
) 
 
$
162
 
 
$
9
 
 
$
(14
) 

 Interest rate contracts
  
Other Debt Securities
  
 Investment securities
(interest income)
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
23
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 

 Interest rate contracts
  
Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings
  
Borrowed funds (interest expense)
  



 



 
 
(66
) 
 
 
64
 

 Interest rate contracts
  
Subordinated debt
  
 Borrowed funds (interest expense)
  
 
214
 
 
 
(229
) 
 
 
190
 
 
 
(218
) 

 Interest rate contracts
  
 Bank notes and senior debt
  
Borrowed funds (interest expense)
  
 
265
 
 
 
(276
) 
 
 
146
 
 
 
(140
) 

 Total
  
 
  
 
  
$
303
 
 
$
(320
) 
 
$
278
 
 
$
(309
) 
 Derivatives Designated in GAAP Hedge Relationships – Cash Flow Hedges 
 


















Year endedIn millions
  
Gain (Loss) on DerivativesRecognized in OCI(Effective
Portion)
 
  

Gain (Loss) Reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income (Effective Portion)
 
  
 Gain (Loss) Recognized in Income on Derivatives
(Ineffective Portion)

  
  
  
 
  
Location
  
Amount
 
  
Location
  
Amount

 December 31, 2011 Interest rate contracts
  
$
805
 
  
Interest income
  
$
455
 
  
Interest income
  
 


  



  
Noninterest income
  
 
43
 
  

  
 

 December 31, 2010 Interest rate contracts
  
$
948
 
  
Interest income
  
$
339
 
  
Interest income
  
 

 
  
 
 
 
  
Noninterest income
  
 
48
 
  
 
  
 

 
180    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Gains (losses) on derivative instruments not designated in hedge relationships: 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments under GAAP 
 












  
  
Year endedDecember 31
 

In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Derivatives used for residential mortgage banking activities:
  



 


 

 Residential mortgage servicing
  



 


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
571
 
 
$
440
 

 Loan sales
  



 


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
 
54
 
 
 
(81
) 

 Gains (losses) included in residential mortgage banking activities (a)
  
$
625
 
 
$
359
 

 Derivatives used for commercial mortgage banking activities:
  



 


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
5
 
 
$
(63
) 

 Credit contracts
  
 
6
 
 
 
(22
) 

 Gains (losses) from commercial mortgage banking activities (b)
  
$
11
 
 
$
(85
) 

 Derivatives used for customer-related activities:
  



 


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
78
 
 
$
16
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
104
 
 
 
44
 

 Equity contracts
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Credit contracts
  
 
2
 
 
 
 
 

 Gains (losses) from customer-related activities (b)
  
$
181
 
 
$
58
 

 Derivatives used for other risk management activities:
  



 


 

 Interest rate contracts
  
$
(43
) 
 
$
(9
) 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(6
) 

 Credit contracts
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
4
 

 Other contracts (c)
  
 
11
 
 
 
86
 

 Gains (losses) from other risk management activities (b)
  
$
(35
) 
 
$
75
 

 Total gains (losses) from derivatives not designated as hedging
instruments
  
$
782
 
 
$
407
 
  


(a)
Included in residential mortgage noninterest income. 


(b)
Included in other noninterest income. 


(c)
Relates to BlackRock LTIP and other contracts. 
CREDIT DERIVATIVES  The credit derivative underlying is based on the credit risk of a specific entity, entities, or an index. As discussed above, we enter into credit derivatives, specifically credit default swaps and risk
participation agreements, as part of our commercial mortgage banking hedging activities and for customer and other risk management purposes. Detail regarding credit default swaps and risk participations sold follows: 
Credit Default Swaps   




























 
  
December 31, 2011
 
  
December 31, 2010
 

Dollars in millions
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
EstimatedNet FairValue
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingMaturity In Years
 
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
EstimatedNet FairValue
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingMaturity In Years
 

 Credit Default Swaps – Sold
  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Single name
  
$
45
 
  
$
2
 
  
 
1.8
 
  
$
45
 
  
$
4
 
  
 
2.8
 

 Index traded
  
 
49
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
2.0
 
  
 
189
 
  
 
2
 
  
 
2.0
 

 Total
  
$
94
 
  
$
2
 
  
 
1.9
 
  
$
234
 
  
$
6
 
  
 
2.2
 

 Credit Default Swaps – Purchased
  



  



  



  



  



  


 

 Single name
  
$
150
 
  
$
5
 
  
 
3.8
 
  
$
317
 
  
$
2
 
  
 
2.6
 

 Index traded
  
 
60
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
37.2
 
  
 
210
 
  
 
8
 
  
 
38.8
 

 Total
  
$
210
 
  
$
9
 
  
 
13.3
 
  
$
527
 
  
$
10
 
  
 
17.0
 

 Total
  
$
304
 
  
$
11
 
  
 
9.8
 
  
$
761
 
  
$
16
 
  
 
12.5
 

  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    181 


Table of Contents

The notional amount of these credit default swaps by credit rating follows: 
Credit Ratings of Credit Default Swaps   












Dollars in millions
  
December 312011
 
  
December 312010
 

 Credit Default Swaps – Sold
  



  


 

 Investment grade (a)
  
$
84
 
  
$
220
 

 Subinvestment grade (b)
  
 
10
 
  
 
14
 

 Total
  
$
94
 
  
$
234
 

 Credit Default Swaps – Purchased
  



  


 

 Investment grade (a)
  
$
145
 
  
$
385
 

 Subinvestment grade (b)
  
 
65
 
  
 
142
 

 Total
  
$
210
 
  
$
527
 

 Total
  
$
304
 
  
$
761
 



(a)
Investment grade with a rating of BBB-/Baa3 or above based on published rating agency information. 


(b)
Subinvestment grade with a rating below BBB-/Baa3 based on published rating agency information.  The referenced/underlying assets for these credit default swaps follow: 
Referenced/Underlying Assets of Credit Default Swaps   
















  
  
CorporateDebt
 
 
Commercialmortgage-backedsecurities
 
 
Loans
 

 December 31, 2011
  
 
59
% 
 
 
20
% 
 
 
21
% 

 December 31, 2010
  
 
62
% 
 
 
28
% 
 
 
10
% 
 We enter into credit default swaps under which we buy loss protection from or sell loss protection to a counterparty for
the occurrence of a credit event related to a referenced entity or index. The maximum amount we would be required to pay under the credit default swaps in which we sold protection, assuming all referenced underlyings experience a credit event at a
total loss, without recoveries, was $94 million at December 31, 2011 and $234 million at December 31, 2010.

Risk Participation Agreements  We have sold risk participation agreements with terms ranging from less than 1 year to 25 years. We will be required to make payments under these agreements if a customer defaults on its obligation to
perform under certain derivative swap contracts with third parties.  Risk Participation Agreements Sold 
 
















Dollars in millions
  
NotionalAmount
 
  
EstimatedNet FairValue
 
 
Weighted-AverageRemainingMaturity In Years
 

 December 31, 2011
  
$
1,568
 
  
$
(5
) 
 
 
7.5
 

 December 31, 2010
  
$
1,367
 
  
$
(2
) 
 
 
2.0
 
 Based on our internal risk rating process of the underlying third parties to the swap contracts, the percentages of the
exposure amount of risk participation agreements sold by internal credit rating follow:  Internal Credit Ratings of Risk Participation
Agreements Sold   












  
  

December 31, 2011
 
 

December 31,
2010
 

 Pass (a)
  
 
99
% 
 
 
95
% 

 Below pass (b)
  
 
1
% 
 
 
5
% 



(a)
Indicates the expected risk of default is currently low. 


(b)
Indicates a higher degree of risk of default. 
Assuming all underlying swap counterparties defaulted at December 31, 2011, the exposure from these agreements would be $145 million based on the
fair value of the underlying swaps, compared with $49 million at December 31, 2010.  
 
182    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
NOTE 17 EARNINGS PER SHARE 
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON
SHARE   
















In millions, except per share data
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Basic
  



 



 


 

 Net income from continuing operations
  
$
3,071
 
 
$
3,024
 
 
$
2,358
 

 Less:
  



 



 


 

 Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
15
 
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
(44
) 

 Dividends distributed to common shareholders
  
 
602
  
 
 
203
  
 
 
428
  

 Dividends distributed to preferred shareholders
  
 
56
 
 
 
146
 
 
 
388
 

 Dividends distributed to nonvested restricted shares
  
 
2
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Preferred stock discount accretion and redemptions
  
 
2
 
 
 
255
 
 
 
56
 

 Undistributed net income from continuing operations
  
$
2,394
  
 
$
2,434
  
 
$
1,529
  

 Undistributed net income from discontinued operations
  
 
 
 
 
 
373
 
 
 
45
 

 Undistributed net income
  
$
2,394
  
 
$
2,807
  
 
$
1,574
  

 Percentage of undistributed income allocated to common shares (a)
  
 
99.58 
% 
 
 
99.64 
% 
 
 
99.68 
% 

 Undistributed income from continuing operations allocated to common shares
  
$
2,384
  
 
$
2,425
  
 
$
1,524
  

 Plus: common dividends
  
 
602
 
 
 
203
 
 
 
428
 

 Net income from continuing operations attributable to basic common shares
  
$
2,986
  
 
$
2,628
  
 
$
1,952
  

 Net income from discontinued operations attributable to common shares
  
 
 
 
 
 
372
 
 
 
45
 

 Net income attributable to basic common shares
  
$
2,986
  
 
$
3,000
  
 
$
1,997
  

 Basic weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
524
 
 
 
517
 
 
 
454
 

 Basic earnings per common share from continuing operations
  
$
5.70
  
 
$
5.08
  
 
$
4.30
  

 Basic earnings per common share from discontinued operations
  
 
 
 
 
 
.72
 
 
 
0.10
 

 Basic earnings per common share
  
$
5.70
  
 
$
5.80
  
 
$
4.40
  

 Diluted
  



 



 


 

 Net income from continuing operations attributable to basic common shares
  
$
2,986
  
 
$
2,628
  
 
$
1,952
  

 Less: BlackRock common stock equivalents
  
 
19
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
15
 

 Net income from continuing operations attributable to diluted common
shares
  
$
2,967
  
 
$
2,611
  
 
$
1,937
  

 Net income from discontinued operations attributable to common shares
  
 
 
 
 
 
372
 
 
 
45
 

 Net income attributable to diluted common shares
  
$
2,967
  
 
$
2,983
  
 
$
1,982
  

 Basic weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
524
 
 
 
517
 
 
 
454
 

 Dilutive potential common shares (b) (c)
  
 
2
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1
  

 Diluted weighted-average common shares outstanding
  
 
526
 
 
 
520
 
 
 
455
 

 Diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations
  
$
5.64
  
 
$
5.02
  
 
$
4.26
  

 Diluted earnings per common share from discontinued operations
  
 
 
 
 
 
.72
 
 
 
0.10
 

 Diluted earnings per common share
  
$
5.64
  
 
$
5.74
  
 
$
4.36
  

 (a)    Excludes unvested shares issued for Restricted Stock plans
  



 



 




 (b)   Excludes stock options considered to be anti-dilutive 
  
 
8
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
15
  

 (c)    Excludes warrants considered to be anti-dilutive
  
 
17
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
22
  

  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    183 


Table of Contents

NOTE 18 EQUITY 
COMMON STOCK  On February 8, 2010, we raised $3.0 billion in new common equity through the issuance of 55.6 million shares of common stock in an underwritten offering at $54 per share. The underwriters
exercised their option to purchase an additional 8.3 million shares of common stock at the offering price of $54 per share, totaling approximately $450 million, to cover over-allotments. We completed this issuance on March 11, 2010.
 PREFERRED STOCK  Information related to preferred stock is as follows:  Preferred Stock – Issued and
Outstanding   
















 
 
  
 
 
Preferred Shares
 

 December 31 Shares in thousands
 
Liquidationvalue pershare
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Authorized
 



 



 


 

 $1 par value
 



 
 
16,588
 
 
 
16,588
 

 Issued and outstanding
 



 



 


 

 Series B
 
$
40
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 Series K
 
 
10,000
 
 
 
50
 
 
 
50
 

 Series L
 
 
100,000
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
2
 

 Series O
 
 
100,000
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
 

 Total issued and outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
63
 
 
 
53
 
 Our Series B preferred stock is cumulative and is not redeemable at our option. Annual dividends on Series B preferred
stock total $1.80 per share. Holders of Series B preferred stock are entitled to 8 votes per share, which is equal to the number of full shares of common stock into which the Series B Preferred Stock is convertible. 
Our Series K preferred stock was issued in May 2008 in connection with our issuance of $500 million of Depositary Shares, each
representing a fractional interest in a share of the Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series K. Dividends are payable if and when declared each May 21 and November 21 until May 21, 2013. After that date,
dividends will be payable each 21st of August, November,
February and May. Dividends will be paid at a rate of 8.25% prior to May 21, 2013 and at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 422 basis points beginning May 21, 2013. The Series K preferred stock is redeemable at our option on or after
May 21, 2013.  Our 9.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L was issued in connection
with the National City transaction in exchange for National City’s Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F. Dividends on the Series L preferred stock are payable if and when declared each 1st of February, May,


August and November. Dividends will be paid at a rate of 9.875% prior to February 1, 2013 and at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 633 basis points beginning February 1, 2013. The Series
L is redeemable at PNC’s option, subject to Federal Reserve approval, if then applicable, on or after February 1, 2013 at a redemption price per share equal to the liquidation preference plus any declared but unpaid dividends. 
Our Series O preferred stock was issued on July 27, 2011, when we issued one million depositary shares, each representing a
1/100th interest in a share of our Fixed-to-Floating Rate
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series O for gross proceeds before commissions and expenses of $1 billion. Dividends are payable when, as, and if declared by our board of directors or an authorized committee of our board, semi-annually on
February 1 and August 1 of each year until August 1, 2021 at a rate of 6.75%. After that date, dividends will be payable on February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1 of each year beginning on November 1,
2021 at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 3.678% per annum. The Series O preferred stock is redeemable at our option on or after August 1, 2021 and at our option within 90 days of a regulatory capital treatment event as defined in the
designations.  We have authorized but unissued Series H, I, J and M preferred stock. As described in Note 13 Capital Securities of Subsidiary
Trusts and Perpetual Trust Securities, under the terms of two of the hybrid capital vehicles we issued that currently qualify as capital for regulatory purposes (the Trust II Securities and the Trust III Securities), these Trust Securities are
automatically exchangeable into shares of PNC preferred stock (Series I and Series J, respectively) in each case under certain conditions relating to the capitalization or the financial condition of PNC Bank, N.A. and upon the direction of the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The Series preferred stock of PNC REIT Corp. is also automatically exchangeable under similar conditions into shares of PNC Series H preferred stock. 
As a part of the National City transaction, we established the PNC Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series M, which mirrors in all material
respects the former National City Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series E. PNC has designated 5,751 preferred shares, liquidation value $100,000 per share, for this series. No shares have yet been issued; however, National City issued
stock purchase contracts for 5,001 shares of its Series E Preferred Stock (now replaced by the PNC Series M as part of the National City transaction) to the National City Preferred Capital Trust I in connection with the issuance by that Trust of
$500 million of 12.000% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (the Normal APEX Securities) in January 2008 by the Trust. It is expected that the Trust will purchase 5,001 of the Series M preferred shares
pursuant to these stock purchase contracts on December 10, 2012 or on an earlier date and possibly as late as December 10, 2013. The Trust has
 
 
184    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


pledged the $500,100,000 principal amount of National City 8.729% Junior Subordinated Notes due 2043 held by the Trust and their proceeds to secure this purchase obligation. 
If Series M shares are issued prior to December 10, 2012, any dividends on such shares will be calculated at a rate per annum equal to 12.000% until
December 10, 2012, and thereafter, at a rate per annum that will be reset quarterly and will equal three-month LIBOR for the related dividend period plus 8.610%. Dividends will be payable if and when declared by the Board at the dividend rate
so indicated applied to the liquidation preference per share of the Series M Preferred Stock. The Series M is redeemable at PNC’s option, subject to Federal Reserve approval, if then applicable, on or after December 10, 2012 at a
redemption price per share equal to the liquidation preference plus any declared but unpaid dividends.  The replacement capital covenants with
respect to the Normal APEX Securities, our Series M shares and our 6,000,000 of Depositary Shares (each representing 1/4000th of an interest in a share of our 9.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L) were
terminated on November 5, 2010 as a result of a successful consent solicitation.  After receiving all required approvals, on
February 10, 2010, we redeemed all 75,792 shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N that had been issued on December 31, 2008 to the US Treasury under the US Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program
(TARP) Capital Purchase Program.  In connection with the redemption of the Series N Preferred Stock, we accelerated the accretion of the
remaining issuance discount on the Series N Preferred Stock, recorded a corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $250 million during the first quarter of 2010 and paid dividends of $89 million to the US Treasury. This resulted in a noncash
reduction in net income attributable to common shareholders and related basic and diluted earnings per share.  During 2010, PNC called its
Series A, C and D cumulative convertible preferred stock for redemption in accordance with the terms of that stock. Effective September 10, 2010, PNC redeemed 1,777 outstanding shares of Series A at a redemption price of $40.00 per share.
Effective October 1, 2010, PNC redeemed 18,118 outstanding shares of Series C and 26,010 shares of Series D at a redemption price of $20.00 per share.

WARRANTS  We have outstanding 16,885,192 warrants, each to purchase one share of PNC common stock at an exercise price of $67.33 per share. These warrants were sold by the US Treasury in a secondary public offering
that closed on May 5, 2010 after the US Treasury exchanged its TARP Warrant (issued on December 31, 2008 under the TARP Capital Purchase Program in relation to the Series N preferred stock referred to above) for 16,885,192 warrants. These
warrants expire December 31, 2018.  FORMER NATIONAL CITY WARRANTS
 28,022 warrants issued by National City that converted into warrants to purchase PNC common stock expired over the period
June 15, 2011 through July 15, 2011, and 28,023 of such warrants expired over the period July 18, 2011 through October 20, 2011. The strike price of these warrants was $750 per share. PNC reserved 5.0 million shares for
issuance pursuant to the warrants and has cancelled this reserve in February 2012.  OTHER
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY MATTERS  We have a dividend reinvestment and stock purchase
plan. Holders of preferred stock and PNC common stock may participate in the plan, which provides that additional shares of common stock may be purchased at market value with reinvested dividends and voluntary cash payments. Common shares issued
pursuant to this plan were: 379,459 shares in 2011, 149,088 shares in 2010 and 534,515 shares in 2009.  At December 31, 2011, we had
reserved approximately 118.3 million common shares to be issued in connection with certain stock plans and the conversion of certain debt and equity securities.  Effective October 4, 2007, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program to purchase up to 25 million shares of PNC common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions. A maximum of 24.710 million shares remained available for repurchase under this program at December 31, 2011. This program will remain in effect until fully utilized or until modified, superseded or terminated. We did not
repurchase any shares during 2011, 2010 or 2009 under this program.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    185 


Table of Contents

NOTE 19 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Details of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows (in millions): 
 
















  
 
Pretax
 
 
Tax
 
 
After-tax
 

 Net unrealized securities gains (losses) and net OTTI losses on debt securities
 



 



 


 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
 



 



 
$
(3,626
) 

 2009 activity
 



 



 


 

 Decrease in net unrealized losses for non-OTTI securities
 
$
5,075
 
 
$
(1,863
) 
 
 
3,212
 

 Less: net gains realized in net income
 
 
550
 
 
 
(204
) 
 
 
346
 

 Net unrealized securities gains on non-OTTI securities
 
 
4,525
 
 
 
(1,659
) 
 
 
2,866
 

 Cumulative effect of adopting FASB ASC 320-10
 
 
(174
) 
 
 
64
 
 
 
(110
) 

 Net increase in OTTI losses on debt securities
 
 
(1,699
) 
 
 
630
 
 
 
(1,069
) 

 Less: Net OTTI losses realized in net income
 
 
(577
) 
 
 
214
 
 
 
(363
) 

 Net unrealized losses on OTTI securities
 
 
(1,296
) 
 
 
480
 
 
 
(816
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 



 



 
 
(1,576
) 

 2010 activity
 



 



 


 

 Cumulative effect of adopting FASB ASU 2009-17, Consolidations
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
7
 
 
 
(13
) 

 Decrease in net unrealized losses for non-OTTI securities
 
 
1,803
 
 
 
(665
) 
 
 
1,138
 

 Less: net gains realized in net income
 
 
426
 
 
 
(156
) 
 
 
270
 

 Net unrealized gains on non-OTTI securities
 
 
1,377
 
 
 
(509
) 
 
 
868
 

 Net increase in OTTI losses on debt securities
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
14
 
 
 
(36
) 

 Less: Net OTTI losses realized in net income
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
119
 
 
 
(206
) 

 Net unrealized gains on OTTI securities
 
 
275
 
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
170
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 



 



 
 
(551
) 

 2011 activity
 



 



 


 

 Decrease in net unrealized gains for non-OTTI securities
 
 
1,232
 
 
 
(451
) 
 
 
781
 

 Less: net gains realized in net income
 
 
284
 
 
 
(104
) 
 
 
180
 

 Net unrealized gains on non-OTTI securities
 
 
948
 
 
 
(347
) 
 
 
601
 

 Net increase in OTTI losses on debt securities
 
 
(331
) 
 
 
121
 
 
 
(210
) 

 Less: Net losses realized on sales of securities
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
12
 
 
 
(22
) 

 Less: OTTI losses realized in net income
 
 
(152
) 
 
 
56
 
 
 
(96
) 

 Net unrealized losses on OTTI securities
 
 
(145
) 
 
 
53
 
 
 
(92
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
(42
) 
 
















  
 
Pretax
 
 
Tax
 
 
After-tax
 

 Net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives
 



 



 


 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
374
 

 2009 activity
 



 



 


 

 Decrease in net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 
$
(12
) 
 
$
4
 
 
 
(8
) 

 Less: net gains realized in net income
 
 
317
 
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
200
 

 Net unrealized losses on cash flow hedge derivatives
 
 
(329
) 
 
 
121
 
 
 
(208
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 



 



 
 
166
 

 2010 activity
 



 



 


 

 Increase in net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 
 
948
 
 
 
(347
) 
 
 
601
 

 Less: net gains realized in net income
 
 
387
 
 
 
(142
) 
 
 
245
 

 Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 
 
561
 
 
 
(205
) 
 
 
356
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 



 



 
 
522
 

 2011 activity
 



 



 


 

 Increase in net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 
 
805
 
 
 
(294
) 
 
 
511
 

 Less: net gains realized in net income
 
 
498
 
 
 
(182
) 
 
 
316
 

 Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 
 
307
 
 
 
(112
) 
 
 
195
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
717
 
  
 
186    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

















  
 
Pretax
 
 
Tax
 
 
After-tax
 

 Pension and other postretirement benefit plan adjustments
 



 



 


 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
 



 



 
$
(667
) 

 2009 Activity
 
$
198
 
 
$
(73
) 
 
 
125
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 



 



 
 
(542
) 

 2010 Activity
 
 
260
 
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
162
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(380
) 

 2011 Activity
 
 
(593
) 
 
 
218
 
 
 
(375
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
(755
) 

 Other (a)
 



 



 


 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
 



 



 
$
(30
) 

 2009 Activity
 



 



 


 

 Foreign currency translation adj.
 
$
48
 
 
$
(17
) 
 
 
31
 

 BlackRock deferred tax adj.
 



 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(13
) 

 SBA I/O strip valuation adj.
 
 
3
 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
2
 

 Total 2009 activity
 
 
51
 
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
20
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 



 



 
 
(10
) 

 2010 Activity
 



 



 


 

 Foreign currency translation adj.
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
6
 
 
 
(12
) 

 BlackRock deferred tax adj.
 



 
 
1
 
 
 
1
 

 SBA I/O strip valuation adj.
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(1
) 

 Total 2010 activity
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
8
 
 
 
(12
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 



 



 
 
(22
) 

 2011 Activity
 



 



 


 

 Foreign currency translation adj.
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(3
) 

 Total 2011 activity
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(3
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
(25
) 



(a)
Consists of foreign currency translation adjustments, deferred tax adjustments on BlackRock’s other comprehensive income, and for 2010 and 2009, interest-only
strip valuation adjustments.  The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income (loss) are as
follows:  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Components 
 












December 31 - In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net unrealized securities gains
  
$
696
 
 
$
95
 

 OTTI losses on debt securities
  
 
(738
) 
 
 
(646
) 

 Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
  
 
717
 
 
 
522
 

 Pension and other postretirement benefit plan adjustments
  
 
(755
) 
 
 
(380
) 

 Other, net
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
(22
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
(105
) 
 
$
(431
) 
 
NOTE 20 INCOME TAXES 
The components of income taxes from continuing operations are as follows:  Income Taxes from Continuing Operations   
















 Year ended December 31 In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current
  



 



 


 

 Federal
  
$
191
 
 
$
(207
) 
 
$
(109
) 

 State
  
 
(33
) 
 
 
43
 
 
 
46
 

 Total current
  
 
158
 
 
 
(164
) 
 
 
(63
) 

 Deferred
  



 



 


 

 Federal
  
 
783
 
 
 
1,193
 
 
 
912
 

 State
  
 
57
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
18
 

 Total deferred
  
 
840
 
 
 
1,201
 
 
 
930
 

 Total
  
$
998
 
 
$
1,037
 
 
$
867
 
 Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities   












December 31 - in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets
  



 


 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses
  
$
1,896
 
 
$
1,912
 

 Net unrealized securities losses
  
 
25
 
 
 
320
 

 Compensation and benefits
  
 
677
 
 
 
595
 

 Unrealized losses on loans
  
 
7
 
 
 
402
 

 Loss and credit carryforward
  
 
243
 
 
 
145
 

 Other
  
 
1,030
 
 
 
1,422
 

 Total gross deferred tax assets
  
 
3,878
 
 
 
4,796
 

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(14
) 
 
 
(21
) 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
3,864
 
 
 
4,775
 

 Deferred tax liabilities
  



 


 

 Leasing
  
 
1,150
 
 
 
1,153
 

 Goodwill and intangibles
  
 
431
 
 
 
399
 

 Mortgage servicing rights
  
 
162
 
 
 
355
 

 BlackRock basis difference
  
 
1,736
 
 
 
1,750
 

 Other
  
 
1,523
 
 
 
1,277
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
5,002
 
 
 
4,934
 

 Net deferred tax liability
  
$
1,138
 
 
$
159
 
  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    187 


Table of Contents

A reconciliation between the statutory and effective tax rates follows: 
Reconciliation of Statutory and Effective Tax Rates   
















Year ended December 31
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Statutory tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
  
 
35.0
% 

 Increases (decreases) resulting from
  



 



  


 

 State taxes net of federal benefit
  
 
.4
 
 
 
.8
 
  
 
1.2
 

 Tax-exempt interest
  
 
(1.7
) 
 
 
(1.3
) 
  
 
(1.2
) 

 Life insurance
  
 
(2.0
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 
  
 
(1.9
) 

 Dividend received deduction
  
 
(1.6
) 
 
 
(1.4
) 
  
 
(1.2
) 

 Tax credits
  
 
(5.1
) 
 
 
(4.3
) 
  
 
(5.4
) 

 IRS letter ruling and settlements
  



 
 
(2.5
) 
  


 

 Other
  
 
(.5
) 
 
 
1.0
 
  
 
.4
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
24.5
% 
 
 
25.5
% 
  
 
26.9
% 
 The net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2011 and 2010 follow: 
Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Tax Credit Carryforwards 
 












In millions
  
December 312011
 
  
December 312010
 

 Net Operating Loss Carryforwards:
  



  


 

 Federal
  
$
30
 
  
$
54
 

 State
  
 
1,460
 
  
 
1,600
 

 Valuation allowance – State
  
 
14
 
  
 
21
 

 Tax Credit Carryforwards:
  



  


 

 Federal
  
$
112
 
  


 

 State
  
 
3
 
  
 
 
 
 The federal net operating loss carryforwards expire from 2027 to 2028. The state net operating loss carryforwards will
expire from 2012 to 2031. The majority of the tax credit carryforwards expire in 2031.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no
undistributed earnings of non-US subsidiaries for which deferred US income taxes had not been provided.  Retained earnings at both
December 31, 2011 and 2010 included $117 million in allocations for bad debt deductions of former thrift subsidiaries for which no income tax has been provided. Under current law, if certain subsidiaries use these bad debt reserves for purposes
other than to absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to Federal income tax at the current corporate tax rate.  We had unrecognized tax
benefits of $209 million at December 31, 2011 and $238 million at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, $100 million of unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would favorably impact the effective income tax rate.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits is as
follows:  Changes in Liability for Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
 
















In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits at January 1
  
$
238
 
 
$
227
 
 
$
257
 

 Increases:
  



 



 


 

 Positions taken during a prior period
  
 
65
 
 
 
76
 
 
 
22
 

 Positions taken during the current period
  
 
1
 
 



 
 
26
 

 Decreases:
  



 



 


 

 Positions taken during a prior period
  
 
(62
) 
 
 
(49
) 
 
 
(39
) 

 Settlements with taxing authorities
  
 
(10
) 
 
 
(13
) 
 
 
(34
) 

 Reductions resulting from lapse of statute of limitations
  
 
(23
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(5
) 

 Balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits at December 31
  
$
209
 
 
$
238
 
 
$
227
 
 It is reasonably possible that the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could increase or decrease in the next twelve
months due to completion of tax authorities’ exams or the expiration of statutes of limitations. Management estimates that the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by $81 million within the next twelve months. 
Examinations are complete for PNC’s consolidated federal income tax returns through 2006 having no outstanding unresolved issues. The Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) is currently examining PNC’s 2007 and 2008 returns. National City’s consolidated federal income tax returns through 2007 have been audited by the IRS. Certain adjustments remain under review by the IRS Appeals
division for years 2003 through 2007. The IRS is currently examining National City’s 2008 return.  PNC files tax returns in most states
and some non-U.S. jurisdictions each year and is under continuous examination by various state taxing authorities.  With few exceptions, we
are no longer subject to state and local and non-U.S. income tax examinations by taxing authorities for periods before 2003. For all open audits, any potential adjustments have been considered in establishing our reserve for uncertain tax positions
as of December 31, 2011.  Our policy is to classify interest and penalties associated with income taxes as income tax expense. For 2011,
we had a benefit of $33 million of gross interest and penalties decreasing income tax expense. The total accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 was $81 million and $113 million, respectively.
 
 
188    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

NOTE 21 REGULATORY MATTERS 
We are subject to the regulations of certain federal, state, and foreign agencies and undergo periodic examinations by such regulatory
authorities.  The ability to undertake new business initiatives (including acquisitions), the access to and cost of funding for new business
initiatives, the ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, the level of deposit insurance costs, and the level and nature of regulatory oversight depend, in large part, on a financial institution’s capital strength. The minimum US
regulatory capital ratios under Basel I are 4% for Tier 1 risk-based, 8% for total risk-based and 4% for leverage. To qualify as “well capitalized,” regulators require banks to maintain capital ratios of at least 6% for Tier 1 risk-based,
10% for total risk-based and 5% for leverage. To be “well capitalized,” a bank holding company must maintain capital ratios of at least 6% Tier 1 risk-based and 10% for total risk-based. At December 31, 2011 and December 31,
2010, PNC and PNC Bank, N.A. met the “well capitalized” capital ratio requirements based on US regulatory capital ratio requirements under Basel I.  The following table sets forth regulatory capital ratios for PNC and its bank subsidiary, PNC Bank, N.A.  Regulatory Capital   




















 
  
Amount
 
  
Ratios
 

December 31 Dollars in millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Risk-based capital
  



  



  



 


 

 Tier 1
  



  



  



 


 

 PNC
  
$
29,073
 
  
$
26,092
 
  
 
12.6
% 
 
 
12.1
% 

 PNC Bank, N.A.
  
 
25,536
 
  
 
24,722
 
  
 
11.4
 
 
 
11.8
 

 Total
  



  



  



 


 

 PNC
  
 
36,548
 
  
 
33,724
 
  
 
15.8
 
 
 
15.6
 

 PNC Bank, N.A.
  
 
32,322
 
  
 
31,662
 
  
 
14.4
 
 
 
15.1
 

 Leverage
  



  



  



 


 

 PNC
  
 
29,073
 
  
 
26,092
 
  
 
11.1
 
 
 
10.2
 

 PNC Bank, N.A.
  
 
25,536
 
  
 
24,722
 
  
 
10.0
 
 
 
10.0
 
 The principal source of parent company cash flow is the dividends it receives from its subsidiary bank, which may be
impacted by the following:   


 
•
 
 Capital needs, 


 
•
 
 Laws and regulations, 


 
•
 
 Corporate policies, 


 
•
 
 Contractual restrictions, and 


 
•
 
 Other factors.  Also,
there are statutory and regulatory limitations on the ability of national banks to pay dividends or make other capital distributions. The amount available for dividend payments to the parent company by PNC Bank, N.A. without prior regulatory
approval was approximately $1.7 billion at December 31, 2011.

Under federal law, a bank subsidiary generally may not extend credit to the parent company or its non-bank
subsidiaries on terms and under circumstances that are not substantially the same as comparable extensions of credit to nonaffiliates. No extension of credit may be made to the parent company or a non-bank subsidiary which is in excess of 10% of the
capital stock and surplus of such bank subsidiary or in excess of 20% of the capital and surplus of such bank subsidiary as to aggregate extensions of credit to the parent company and its non-bank subsidiaries. Such extensions of credit, with
limited exceptions, must be fully collateralized by certain specified assets. In certain circumstances, federal regulatory authorities may impose more restrictive limitations.  Federal Reserve Board regulations require depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank (FRB). At December 31, 2011, the balance outstanding at the FRB was $407
million. 
NOTE 22 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
We establish accruals for legal proceedings, including litigation and regulatory and governmental investigations and inquiries, when
information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Any such accruals are adjusted thereafter as appropriate to reflect changed
circumstances. When we are able to do so, we also determine estimates of possible losses or ranges of possible losses, whether in excess of any related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, for disclosed legal proceedings
(“Disclosed Matters,” which are those matters disclosed in this Note 22). For Disclosed Matters where we are able to estimate such possible losses or ranges of possible losses, as of December 31, 2011, we estimate that it is
reasonably possible that we could incur losses in an aggregate amount of up to approximately $550 million. The estimates included in this amount are based on our analysis of currently available information and are subject to significant judgment and
a variety of assumptions and uncertainties. As new information is obtained we may change our estimates. Due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of outcomes of legal proceedings, any amounts accrued or included in
this aggregate amount may not represent the ultimate loss to us from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, our exposure and ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued or this aggregate amount.
 The aggregate estimated amount provided above does not include an estimate for every Disclosed Matter, as we are unable, at this time, to
estimate the losses that it is reasonably possible that we could incur or ranges of such losses with respect to some of the matters disclosed for one or more of the following reasons. In our experience, legal proceedings are inherently
unpredictable. In many legal proceedings, various factors exacerbate this inherent unpredictability, including,
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    189 


Table of Contents


among others, one or more of the following: the proceeding is in its early stages; the damages sought are unspecified, unsupported or uncertain; it is unclear whether a case brought as a class
action will be allowed to proceed on that basis or, if permitted to proceed as a class action, how the class will be defined; the plaintiff is seeking relief other than or in addition to compensatory damages; the matter presents meaningful legal
uncertainties, including novel issues of law; we have not engaged in meaningful settlement discussions; discovery has not started or is not complete; there are significant facts in dispute; and there are a large number of parties named as defendants
(including where it is uncertain how liability, if any, will be shared among multiple defendants). Generally, the less progress that has been made in the proceedings or the broader the range of potential results, the harder it is for us to estimate
losses or ranges of losses that it is reasonably possible we could incur. Therefore, as the estimated aggregate amount disclosed above does not include all of the Disclosed Matters, the amount disclosed above does not represent our maximum
reasonably possible loss exposure for all of the Disclosed Matters. The estimated aggregate amount also does not reflect any of our exposure to matters not so disclosed, as discussed below under “Other.” 
We include in some of the descriptions of individual Disclosed Matters certain quantitative information related to the plaintiff’s claim against us
alleged in the plaintiff’s pleadings or otherwise publicly available. While information of this type may provide insight into the potential magnitude of a matter, it does not necessarily represent our estimate of reasonably possible loss or our
judgment as to any currently appropriate accrual.  Some of our exposure in Disclosed Matters may be offset by applicable insurance coverage.
We do not consider the possible availability of insurance coverage in determining the amounts of any accruals (although we record the amount of related insurance recoveries that are deemed probable up to the amount of the accrual) or in determining
any estimates of possible losses or ranges of possible losses.  Securities and State Law Fiduciary Cases against National City



 
•
 
 In January 2008, a lawsuit (In re National City Corporation Securities, Derivative & ERISA Litigation (The Securities Case) (MDL
No. 2003, Case No: 1:08-nc-70004-SO)) was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio against National City and certain officers and directors of National City. As amended, this lawsuit was brought as a class
action on behalf of purchasers of National City’s stock during the period April 30, 2007 to April 21, 2008 and also on behalf of everyone who acquired National City stock pursuant to a registration statement filed in connection with
its acquisition of MAF Bancorp in 2007. The amended complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws



 
 
 
regarding public statements and disclosures relating to, among other things, the nature, quality, performance, and risks of National City’s non-prime, residential construction, and National
Home Equity portfolios, its loan loss reserves, its financial condition, and related allegedly false and misleading financial statements. In the amended complaint, the plaintiffs seek, among other things, unspecified damages and attorneys’
fees. A motion to dismiss the amended complaint is pending. A magistrate judge has recommended dismissal of the lawsuit without prejudice, with a right for the plaintiffs to file a further amended complaint within 30 days. The magistrate’s
recommendation is subject to adoption by the district court. The plaintiffs have filed objections to that recommendation. In August 2011, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding providing for the settlement of the lawsuit for $168
million and in November filed formal settlement papers with the district court. The settlement is conditioned on, among other things, final court approval. The court has scheduled a hearing in March 2012 to determine if it will grant final approval
to the settlement. As a result of existing accruals and recorded probable insurance recoveries, PNC expects the impact of this settlement on our future results of operations to be immaterial. 
 


 
•
 
 In May 2008, a lawsuit (The Dispatch Printing Company, et al. v. National City Corporation, et al. (Case No. 08CVH-6506)) was filed on
behalf of an individual plaintiff in the Franklin County, Ohio, Court of Common Pleas against National City, certain directors of National City, and Corsair Co-Invest, L.P. and unnamed other investors participating in the April 2008 capital infusion
into National City, alleging that National City’s directors breached their fiduciary duties by entering into this capital infusion transaction. A motion to dismiss the case as originally filed was denied. After the initial filing, two
additional plaintiffs were added. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in December 2010. The amended complaint adds PNC as a defendant as successor in interest to National City. In the amended complaint, which included some additional
allegations, the plaintiffs seek, among other things, unspecified actual and punitive damages, and attorneys’ fees. In December 2011, we filed a motion for summary judgment. The court has not yet ruled on this motion. The court has currently
scheduled the trial to begin in July 2012.  Interchange Litigation 
Beginning in June 2005, a series of antitrust lawsuits were filed against Visa®, MasterCard®, and several
major financial institutions, including cases naming National City (since merged into PNC) and its subsidiary, National City Bank of Kentucky (since merged into National City Bank which in
 
 
190    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


turn was merged into PNC Bank, N.A.). The cases have been consolidated for pretrial proceedings in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York under the caption In re
Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant-Discount Antitrust Litigation (Master File No. 1:05-md-1720-JG-JO). Those cases naming National City were brought as class actions on behalf of all persons or business entities who have accepted
Visa® or MasterCard®. The plaintiffs, merchants operating commercial businesses throughout the US and trade associations, allege, among other things, that the defendants conspired to fix
the prices for general purpose card network services and otherwise imposed unreasonable restraints on trade, resulting in the payment of inflated interchange fees, in violation of the antitrust laws. In January 2009, the plaintiffs filed amended and
supplemental complaints adding, among other things, allegations that the restructuring of Visa and MasterCard, each of which included an initial public offering, violated the antitrust laws. In their complaints, the plaintiffs seek, among other
things, injunctive relief, unspecified damages (trebled under the antitrust laws) and attorneys’ fees. In January 2008, the district court dismissed the plaintiffs’ claims for damages incurred prior to January 1, 2004. In April 2009,
the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the amended and supplemental complaints. In May 2009, class plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification. Both of these motions were argued in November 2009. In February 2011, the defendants filed a
motion for summary judgment, which was argued in November 2011. The court has not yet ruled on any of these motions.  National City and
National City Bank entered into judgment and loss sharing agreements with Visa and certain other banks with respect to all of the above referenced litigation. All of the litigation against Visa is also subject to the indemnification obligations
described in Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees. PNC Bank, N.A. is not named a defendant in any of the Visa or MasterCard related antitrust litigation nor was it initially a party to the judgment or loss sharing agreements, but it has been subject
to these indemnification obligations and became responsible for National City Bank’s position in the litigation and responsibilities under the agreements upon completion of the merger of National City Bank into PNC Bank, N.A. In March 2011, we
entered into a MasterCard Settlement and Judgment Sharing Agreement with MasterCard and other financial institution defendants and an Omnibus Agreement Regarding Interchange Litigation Sharing and Settlement Sharing with Visa, MasterCard and other
financial institution defendants. If there is a resolution of all claims against all defendants, the Omnibus Agreement, in substance, apportions that resolution into a Visa portion and a MasterCard portion, with the Visa portion being two-thirds and
the MasterCard portion being one-third. This apportionment only applies in the case of either a global settlement involving all defendants or an adverse judgment against the defendants, to the extent that damages either are related to the
merchants’ inter-network conspiracy claims or are otherwise not attributed to specific MasterCard or Visa


conduct or damages. The MasterCard portion (or any MasterCard-related liability not subject to the Omnibus Agreement) will then be apportioned under the MasterCard Settlement and Judgment Sharing
Agreement among MasterCard and PNC and the other financial institution defendants that are parties to this agreement. The responsibility for the Visa portion (or any Visa-related liability not subject to the Omnibus Agreement) will be apportioned
under the pre-existing indemnification responsibilities and judgment and loss sharing agreements.  CBNV Mortgage Litigation
 Between 2001 and 2003, on behalf of either individual plaintiffs or proposed classes of plaintiffs, several separate lawsuits were
filed in state and federal courts against Community Bank of Northern Virginia (CBNV) and other defendants asserting claims arising from second mortgage loans made to the plaintiffs. CBNV was merged into one of Mercantile Bankshares
Corporation’s banks before PNC acquired Mercantile in 2007. The state lawsuits were removed to federal court and, with the lawsuits that had been filed in federal court, were consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in a multidistrict litigation
(MDL) proceeding in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania, currently under the caption In re: Community Bank of Northern Virginia Lending Practices Litigation (No. 03-0425 (W.D. Pa.), MDL No. 1674). In
January 2008, the Pennsylvania district court issued an order sending back to the General Court of Justice, Superior Court Division, for Wake County, North Carolina the claims of two proposed class members. These claims are asserted in a case
originally filed in 2001 and captioned Bumpers, et al. v. Community Bank of Northern Virginia (01-CVS-011342).  MDL Proceedings in
Pennsylvania. In August 2006, a proposed settlement agreement covering some of the class members was submitted to the district court handling the MDL proceedings for its approval, which it granted in August 2008. The class covered by this
settlement is referred to as the Kessler class.  Some objecting members of the Kessler class appealed the final approval order
to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. In their appeal, the objecting Kessler class members had asserted that CBNV’s annual percentage rate disclosures violated the Truth in Lending Act (TILA) and the Home Ownership
and Equity Protection Act (HOEPA), that those claims are very valuable, and that the settling plaintiffs should have asserted those claims. The settling plaintiffs advanced a number of reasons why they had not asserted TILA/HOEPA claims. In
September 2010, the court of appeals vacated the district court’s class certification decision and approval of the class settlement and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings. As a result of the settling
plaintiffs’ decision not to continue to pursue the settlement and instead participate in the joint amended consolidated class action complaint described below, however, there will be no proceedings in the district court on the remand
relating to the settlement.  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    191 


Table of Contents

In October 2011, the plaintiffs filed a joint consolidated amended class action complaint covering all of
the class action lawsuits pending in this proceeding. The amended complaint names CBNV, another bank, and purchasers of loans originated by CBNV and the other bank (including the Residential Funding Company, LLC) as defendants. The principal
allegations in the amended complaint are that a group of persons and entities collectively characterized as the “Shumway/Bapst Organization” referred prospective second residential mortgage loan borrowers to CBNV and the other bank, that
CBNV and the other bank charged these borrowers improper title and loan fees at loan closings, that the disclosures provided to the borrowers at loan closings were inaccurate, and that CBNV and the other bank paid some of the loan fees to the
Shumway/Bapst Organization as purported “kickbacks” for the referrals. The amended complaint asserts claims for violations of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), TILA, as amended by HOEPA, and the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO).  The amended complaint seeks to certify a class of all borrowers who obtained a second residential
non-purchase money mortgage loan, secured by their principal dwelling, from either CBNV or the other defendant bank, the terms of which made the loan subject to HOEPA. The plaintiffs allege that there are approximately 50,000 members of this class.
They seek, among other things, unspecified damages (including treble damages under RICO and RESPA), rescission of loans, declaratory and injunctive relief, interest, and attorneys’ fees. In November 2011 the defendants filed a motion to dismiss
the amended complaint. The court has not yet ruled on this motion.  North Carolina Proceedings. The plaintiffs in Bumpers make
similar allegations to those included in the amended complaint in the MDL proceedings. Following the remand to North Carolina state court, the plaintiffs in Bumpers sought to represent a class of North Carolina borrowers in state court
proceedings in North Carolina. The plaintiffs claim that this class consists of approximately 650 borrowers. The district court in Pennsylvania handling the MDL proceedings enjoined class proceedings in Bumpers in March 2008. In April 2008,
the North Carolina superior court granted the Bumpers plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment on their individual claims and awarded them approximately $11,000 each plus interest. CBNV appealed the grant of the motion for summary
judgment. In September 2011, the North Carolina Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the granting of the plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment. The court affirmed the plaintiffs’ judgment on their claim that they paid a
loan discount fee but were not provided a loan discount. It reversed the plaintiffs’ judgment on their claim that they were overcharged for settlement services and remanded that claim for trial. The court also held that, on remand, the trial
court may consider the issue of class certification. Thereafter, we petitioned the North Carolina Supreme Court for discretionary review of the decision of the North Carolina Court of Appeals and for a stay of


proceedings pending the decision on this petition and, if granted, the decision on the appeal. The North Carolina Supreme Court thereafter granted a temporary stay and, in October 2011, denied
the plaintiffs’ motion to dissolve the stay.  Overdraft Litigation  Beginning in October 2009, PNC Bank and National City Bank have been named in six lawsuits brought as class actions relating to the manner in which they charged overdraft fees on ATM and debit
transactions to customers. Three lawsuits naming PNC Bank and one naming National City Bank, along with similar lawsuits against numerous other banks, have been consolidated for pre-trial proceedings in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of Florida (the “MDL Court”) under the caption In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation (MDL No. 2036, Case No. 1:09-MD-02036-JLK ). The first of these cases (Casayuran, et al. v. PNC Bank, National
Association (Case No. 10-cv-20496-JLK)) was originally filed against PNC Bank in October 2009 in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, and an amended complaint was filed in June 2010 in the MDL Court. The other
cases that have been consolidated were filed in June 2010 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida (Cowen, et al. v. PNC Bank, National Association (Case No. 10-CV-21869-JLK), Hernandez, et al. v. PNC
Bank, National Association (Case No. 10-CV-21868-JLK), and Matos v. National City Bank (Case No. 10-cv-21771-JLK). A consolidated amended complaint was filed in December 2010 that consolidated all of the claims in these four MDL
Court cases. It seeks to certify multi-state classes of customers for the common law claims described below (covering all states in which PNC and National City had retail branch operations during the class period), and subclasses of PNC Bank
customers with accounts in Pennsylvania and New Jersey branches and of National City Bank customers with accounts in Illinois branches, with each subclass being asserted for purposes of claims under those states’ consumer protection statutes.
No class periods are stated in any of the complaints, other than for the applicable statutes of limitations, which vary by state and claim. Our motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint was denied in March 2011. 
In December 2011, the plaintiffs in the MDL Court moved for class certification. In light of the Trombley settlement described below, the National City
plaintiffs did not move for class certification on behalf of National City customers. As to PNC, the plaintiffs moved for class certification in accordance with their consolidated amended complaint, except that they are not seeking a class as to the
conversion claims. The court has not yet ruled on this motion. The MDL Court has scheduled trial for January 2013 for the cases that will be tried in that court.  In December 2010, an additional lawsuit (Henry v. PNC Bank, National Association (No. GD-10-022974)) was filed in the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania
 
 
192    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


on behalf of all current citizens of Pennsylvania who are domiciled in Pennsylvania who had or have a PNC checking or debit account used primarily for personal, family or household purposes and
who incurred overdraft and related fees on transactions resulting from the methodology of posting transactions from December 8, 2004 through August 14, 2010. We filed preliminary objections seeking dismissal of each of the claims in this
lawsuit in March 2011. In January 2012, the court ruled on our preliminary objections, dismissing several claims but overruling our objections with respect to claims for breach of contract and the duty of good faith and fair dealing and for
violation of Pennsylvania’s consumer protection statute.  The sixth lawsuit (Trombley, et al. v. National City Bank (Civil Action
No. 10-00232 (JDB)) was brought as a class action against National City Bank in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. In July 2010, the parties reached a tentative settlement of this lawsuit. The settlement class
included all National City customers who incurred during the period July 1, 2004 to August 15, 2010 overdraft fees that had not been reversed or refunded. Several members of the proposed settlement class, including the named plaintiff in
another lawsuit filed in the MDL Court, filed objections to approval of this settlement. Following a hearing in July 2011, the court granted final approval in December 2011. In granting final approval, the court shortened the ending date for the
class period to June 21, 2010. One of the objectors appealed the court’s order approving the settlement to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In February 2012, this objector moved to voluntarily
dismiss the appeal, and the court of appeals dismissed it, thereby making the settlement final. The amount of the settlement is not material to PNC and has been accrued.  The complaints in each of these lawsuits allege that the banks engaged in unlawful practices in assessing overdraft fees arising from electronic point-of-sale and ATM debits. The principal practice
challenged in these lawsuits is the banks’ purportedly common policy of posting debit transactions on a daily basis from highest amount to lowest amount, thereby allegedly inflating the number of overdraft fees assessed. Other practices
challenged include the failure to decline to honor debit card transactions where the account has insufficient funds to cover the transactions. 
In the consolidated amended complaint in the MDL Court, the plaintiffs assert claims for breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
unconscionability; conversion, unjust enrichment; and violation of the consumer protection statutes of Pennsylvania, Illinois and New Jersey. In the Henry case, the remaining claims are for breach of contract and the duty of good faith and
fair dealing and for violation of Pennsylvania’s consumer protection statute. The action against National City in the District of Columbia added claims under the Ohio and Michigan consumer protection statutes and the federal Electronic Funds
Transfer Act. In their complaints, the


plaintiffs seek, among other things, restitution of overdraft fees paid, unspecified actual and punitive damages (with actual damages, in some cases, trebled under state law), pre-judgment
interest, attorneys’ fees, and declaratory relief finding the overdraft policies to be unfair and unconscionable.  Fulton Financial
 In 2009, Fulton Financial Advisors, N.A. filed lawsuits against PNC Capital Markets, LLC and NatCity Investments, Inc. in the Court of
Common Pleas of Lancaster County, Pennsylvania arising out of Fulton’s purchase of auction rate certificates (ARCs) through PNC and NatCity. Each of the lawsuits alleges violations of the Pennsylvania Securities Act, negligent
misrepresentation, negligence, breach of fiduciary duty, common law fraud, and aiding and abetting common law fraud in connection with the purchase of the ARCs by Fulton. Specifically, Fulton alleges that, as a result of the decline of financial
markets in 2007 and 2008, the market for ARCs became illiquid; that PNC and NatCity knew or should have known of the increasing threat of the ARC market becoming illiquid; and that PNC and NatCity did not inform Fulton of this increasing threat, but
allowed Fulton to continue to purchase ARCs, to Fulton’s detriment. In its complaints, Fulton alleges that it then held ARCs purchased through PNC for a price of more than $123 million and purchased through NatCity for a price of more than $175
million. In each complaint, Fulton seeks, among other things, unspecified actual and punitive damages, rescission, attorneys’ fees and interest.  In the case against PNC (Fulton Financial Advisors, N.A. v. PNC Capital Markets, LLC (CI 09-10838)), PNC filed preliminary objections to Fulton’s complaint, which were denied. NatCity removed
the case against it to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Fulton Financial Advisors, N.A. v. NatCity Investments, Inc. (No. 5:09-cv-04855)), and in November 2009 filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.
The court has not yet ruled on this motion.  FHLB  In October 2010, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago brought a lawsuit in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, against numerous financial companies, including The PNC Financial Services Group,
Inc., as successor in interest to National City Corporation, and PNC Investments LLC, as successor in interest to NatCity Investments, Inc. (Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago v. Bank of America Funding Corp., et al. (Case
No. 10CH45033)). The complaint alleges that the defendants have liability to the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago in a variety of capacities (in the case of the National City entities, as underwriters) under Illinois state securities law and
common law in connection with the alleged purchase of private-label mortgage-backed securities by the Federal Home Loan Bank. According to the complaint, the Federal Home Loan Bank purchased approximately $3.3
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    193 


Table of Contents


billion in mortgage-backed securities in total in transactions addressed by the complaint, approximately $345 million of which was allegedly in transactions involving the National City entities.
The complaint alleges misrepresentations and omissions in connection with the sales of the mortgage-backed securities in question. In its complaint, the Federal Home Loan Bank seeks, among other things, rescission, unspecified damages, interest, and
attorneys’ fees. In November 2010, the defendants removed the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. In January 2011, the district court remanded the case to the Circuit Court of Cook County. The
plaintiff amended its complaint in March 2011 and filed a corrected amended complaint in April 2011. The corrected amended complaint does not identify any additional transaction for which the plaintiff seeks recovery from PNC nor does it add any
additional substantive allegations. In May 2011, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the corrected amended complaint. The court has not yet ruled on this motion.  Weavering Macro Fixed Income Fund  In July 2010, PNC completed the sale of PNC
Global Investment Servicing (“PNC GIS”) to The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (“BNY-Mellon”), pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated February 1, 2010. In July 2009, the liquidators of the Weavering Macro Fixed
Income Fund Limited (“Weavering”) issued a Plenary Summons in the High Court, Dublin, Ireland, in connection with a European subsidiary of PNC GIS’s provision of administration services to Weavering. The Plenary Summons was served on
the PNC GIS subsidiary (GIS Europe) on or about June 30, 2010. In May 2011, the liquidator served a Notice of Intention to Proceed and Statement of Claim, which alleges, among other things, that GIS Europe breached its contractual duties to
Weavering as well as an alleged duty of care to Weavering, and investors in Weavering, and makes claims of breach of the administration and accounting services agreement, negligence, gross negligence, breach of duty, misrepresentation and negligent
misstatement. The statement of claim further alleges that investors in Weavering lost approximately €282,000,000 and also expended approximately €98,000,000 in brokerage and exchange commissions, interest, and fees as a result of the
transactions at issue. The statement of claim seeks, among other things, damages, costs, and interest. In January 2012, upon application by GIS Europe, the court issued a judgment ordering a hearing on certain preliminary issues (a “modular
trial”).  In May 2011, BNY-Mellon provided notice to PNC of an indemnification claim pursuant to the stock purchase agreement related to
this litigation.  365/360 Litigation  PNC Bank and National City Bank have been named as defendants in three lawsuits seeking to certify classes of commercial borrowers bringing claims for breach of contract


arising from the use of the 365/360 method of interest computation in certain commercial promissory notes. The first of these cases (DK&D Properties, LLC v. National City Bank (Case
no. 08 cv 680078)), was filed in December 2008 against National City Bank in the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, Ohio. It seeks to certify a class consisting of certain Ohio commercial borrowers of National City Bank for these claims. In
July 2009, the court denied National City Bank’s motion to dismiss the complaint. In December 2011, plaintiff filed a motion for class certification. The court has not yet ruled on this motion. Also in December 2011, the court granted National
City Bank’s motion to stay the case pending the decision of the Ohio Supreme Court in JNT Properties, LLC v. KeyBank National Association (Case No. 11-1392), which, although neither PNC Bank nor National City Bank are parties,
presents many of the same issues as those in DK&D Properties.  The second case (Kreisler & Kreisler, LLC v. National
City Bank, et al. (Case no. 4:10-cv-00956)) was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in May 2010 against National City Bank and also purported to name “PNC Bank Corp.” as a defendant. It sought
to certify a national class of commercial borrowers for these claims. In March 2011, the district court granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss the complaint. In October 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed
the dismissal by the district court. In the third case (PNC Bank, National Association v. St. Louis PET Centers, LLC, et al. (Case no. 10SL-CC01076)), a borrower filed a counterclaim, brought as a class action, against PNC Bank in the Circuit
Court of County of St. Louis, Missouri in November 2010. The claims and proposed class set forth in this complaint are similar to those in Kreisler & Kreisler. In March 2011, the court denied our motion to dismiss the counterclaim.
 Plaintiffs in these cases allege generally that they obtained fixed or variable rate commercial loans from PNC Bank or National City Bank
pursuant to promissory notes or loan agreements setting forth annual or per annum interest rates, that the bank’s use of the 365/360 method of calculation of interest caused the borrower to pay interest over a calendar year at a higher rate
than the per annum rate stated in the promissory notes, and that this was a breach of the terms of the promissory notes. Plaintiffs in each of these cases seek declaratory and injunctive relief, compensatory damages, prejudgment interest, and
attorneys’ fees.  False Claims Act Lawsuit  PNC Bank has been named as a defendant, along with other lenders, in a qui tam lawsuit brought in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia by two individuals on behalf of the United
States under the federal False Claims Act (United States ex rel. Bibby & Donnelly v. Wells Fargo, et al. (1:06-CV-0547-AT)). The lawsuit was originally filed under seal, with a second amended complaint filed in June 2011. The second
amended complaint was unsealed by the district court  
 
194    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


in October 2011. In the second amended complaint, the plaintiffs, who allege that they are officers of a mortgage broker, allege that several mortgage originators, including entities affiliated
with PNC Bank’s predecessor, National City Bank, made false statements to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs in order to obtain loan guarantees by the VA under its Interest Rate Reduction Refinancing Loans (IRRRL) program. Under that
program, the VA guarantees refinancing loans made to veterans if the loans meet program requirements, one of which limits the type and amount of fees that can be charged to borrowers by lenders. The plaintiffs allege, among other things, that the
defendants charged impermissible fees to borrowers under the VA program and then made false statements to the VA concerning such fees in violation of the civil False Claims Act. The plaintiffs allege that, by doing so, National City Bank and the
other defendants caused the VA to pay, among other costs, amounts in respect of the loan guarantees to which the defendants were not entitled. On their behalf and on behalf of the United States, the plaintiffs seek, among other things, unspecified
damages equal to the loss the defendants allegedly caused the United States (including treble damages under the False Claims Act), statutory civil penalties between $5,500 and $11,000 per false claim made by the defendants, injunctive relief against
submission of false claims to the United States and imposing unallowable charges against veterans participating in the IRRRL program, and attorneys’ fees. To date, the United States has not joined in the prosecution of the plaintiffs’
lawsuit. In December 2011, PNC moved to dismiss the action. A number of the other defendants have also filed motions to dismiss. The court has not yet ruled on these motions.  Captive Mortgage Reinsurance Litigation  In December 2011, a lawsuit (White, et
al. v. The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., et al. (Civil Action No. 11-7928)) was filed against PNC (as successor in interest to National City Corporation and several of its subsidiaries) and several mortgage insurance companies in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. This lawsuit, which was brought as a class action, alleges that National City structured its program of reinsurance of private mortgage insurance in such a way as to avoid a true
transfer of risk from the mortgage insurers to National City’s captive reinsurer. The plaintiffs allege that the payments from the mortgage insurers to the captive reinsurer constitute kickbacks, referral payments, or unearned fee splits
prohibited under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), as well as common law unjust enrichment. The plaintiffs claim, among other things, that from the beginning of 2004 until the end of 2010 National City’s captive reinsurer
collected from the mortgage insurance company defendants at least $219 million as its share of borrowers’ private mortgage insurance premiums and that during the same period its share of paid claims was approximately $12 million. The plaintiffs
seek to certify a nationwide class of all persons who obtained residential mortgage loans originated, funded or originated through correspondent lending by National City or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates


between January 1, 2004 and the present and, in connection with these mortgage loans, purchased private mortgage insurance and whose residential mortgage loans were included within National
City’s captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements. Plaintiffs seek, among other things, statutory damages under RESPA (which include treble damages), restitution of reinsurance premiums collected, disgorgement of profits, and attorneys’
fees.  Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities Indemnification Demands  We have received indemnification demands from several entities sponsoring residential mortgage-backed securities and their affiliates where purchasers of the securities have brought litigation against the
sponsors and other parties involved in the securitization transactions. National City Mortgage had sold whole loans to the sponsors or their affiliates that were allegedly included in certain of these securitization transactions. According to the
indemnification demands, the plaintiffs’ claims in these lawsuits are based on alleged misstatements and omissions in the offering documents for these transactions. The indemnification demands assert that agreements governing the sale of these
loans or the securitization transactions to which National City Mortgage is a party require us to indemnify the sponsors and their affiliates for losses suffered in connection with these lawsuits. At present, there has been no determination that the
parties seeking indemnification have any liability to the plaintiffs in these lawsuits.  Other Regulatory and Governmental Inquiries
 PNC is the subject of investigations, audits and other forms of regulatory and governmental inquiry covering a broad range of issues
in our banking, securities and other financial services businesses, in some cases as part of regulatory reviews of specified activities at multiple industry participants. Over the last few years, we have experienced an increase in regulatory and
governmental investigations, audits and other inquiries. Areas of current regulatory or governmental inquiry with respect to PNC include consumer financial protection, fair lending, mortgage origination and servicing, mortgage-related insurance and
reinsurance, municipal finance activities, and participation in government insurance or guarantee programs, some of which are described below. These inquiries, including those described below, may lead to administrative, civil or criminal
proceedings, and possibly result in remedies including fines, penalties, restitution, alterations in our business practices, and in additional expenses and collateral costs. 
 


 
•
 
 One area of significant regulatory and governmental focus has been mortgage lending and servicing. Numerous federal and state governmental, legislative
and regulatory authorities are investigating practices in this area. PNC has received inquiries from, or is the subject of investigations by, a broad range of governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities relating to our activities in this
area and is cooperating with these investigations and inquiries.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    195 


Table of Contents



 
 
 
As a result of the number and range of authorities conducting the investigations and inquiries, as well as the nature of these types of investigations and inquiries, among other factors, PNC
cannot at this time predict the ultimate overall cost to or effect on PNC from potential governmental, legislative or regulatory actions arising out of these investigations and inquiries. 
 


 
•
 
 In April 2011, as a result of a publicly-disclosed interagency horizontal review of residential mortgage servicing operations at fourteen federally
regulated mortgage servicers, PNC entered into a consent order with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and PNC Bank entered into a consent order with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Collectively, these consent orders
describe certain foreclosure-related practices and controls that the regulators found to be deficient and require PNC and PNC Bank to, among other things, develop and implement plans and programs to enhance PNC’s residential mortgage servicing
and foreclosure processes, retain an independent consultant to review certain residential mortgage foreclosure actions, take certain remedial actions, and oversee compliance with the orders and the new plans and programs. The two orders do not
foreclose the potential for civil money penalties from either of these regulators.  In connection with these
orders, PNC has established a Compliance Committee of the Boards of PNC and PNC Bank to monitor and coordinate PNC’s and PNC Bank’s implementation of the commitments under the orders. PNC and PNC Bank are executing Action Plans designed to
meet the requirements of the orders. Consistent with the orders, PNC has also engaged an independent consultant to conduct a review of certain residential foreclosure actions, including those identified through borrower complaints, and identify
whether any remedial actions for borrowers are necessary. The consultant’s review is underway. PNC expects to take any required remedial actions coming out of this review, although the full scope and nature of any such remedial actions is not
currently known.   


 
•
 
 On February 9, 2012, the Department of Justice, other federal regulators and 49 state attorneys general announced agreements with the five largest
mortgage servicers. Under these agreements, which remain subject to, among other things, definitive documentation and



 
 
 
court approval, the mortgage servicers will make cash payments to federal and state governments, provide various forms of financial relief to borrowers, and implement new mortgage servicing
standards. These governmental authorities are continuing their review of, and have engaged in discussions with, other mortgage servicers, including PNC, that were subject to the interagency horizontal review, which could result in the imposition of
substantial payments and other forms of relief (similar to that agreed to by the five largest servicers) on some or all of these mortgage servicers, including PNC. Whether and to what extent any such relief may be imposed on PNC and other smaller
servicers is not yet known.   


 
•
 
 PNC has received subpoenas from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York concerning National City Bank’s lending
practices in connection with loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) as well as certain non-FHA-insured loan origination, sale and securitization practices. The U.S. Attorney’s Office inquiry is in its early stage and PNC is
cooperating with the investigation.   


 
•
 
 The SEC previously commenced investigations of activities of National City prior to its acquisition by PNC. The SEC has requested, and we have provided
to the SEC, documents concerning, among other things, National City’s capital-raising activities, loan underwriting experience, allowance for loan losses, marketing practices, dividends, bank regulatory matters and the sale of First Franklin
Financial Corporation.   


 
•
 
 The SEC has been conducting an investigation into events at Equipment Finance LLC (EFI), a subsidiary of Sterling Financial Corporation, which PNC
acquired in April 2008. The United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has also been investigating the EFI situation.  Our practice is to cooperate fully with regulatory and governmental investigations, audits and other inquiries, including those described in this Note 22. 
Other  In addition to the
proceedings or other matters described above, PNC and persons to whom we may have indemnification obligations, in the normal course of business, are subject to various other pending and threatened legal proceedings in which claims for monetary
damages and other relief are asserted. We do not anticipate, at the present time, that the ultimate aggregate liability, if any, arising out of such other legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on our financial position. However, we
cannot now determine  
 
196    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


whether or not any claims asserted against us or others to whom we may have indemnification obligations, whether in the proceedings or other matters described above or otherwise, will have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations in any future reporting period, which will depend on, among other things, the amount of the loss resulting from the claim and the amount of income otherwise reported for the reporting period.
 See Note 23 Commitments and Guarantees for additional information regarding the Visa indemnification and our other obligations to provide
indemnification, including to current and former officers, directors, employees and agents of PNC and companies we have acquired, including National City. 
NOTE 23 COMMITMENTS AND GUARANTEES 
EQUITY FUNDING AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
 Our unfunded commitments at December 31, 2011 included private equity investments of $247 million, and other investments of $3
million.  STANDBY LETTERS OF CREDIT 
We issue standby letters of credit and have risk participations in standby letters of credit and bankers’ acceptances issued by other financial
institutions, in each case to support obligations of our customers to third parties, such as remarketing programs for customers’ variable rate demand notes. Net outstanding standby letters of credit and internal credit ratings were as follows:
 Net Outstanding Standby Letters of Credit   












Dollars in billions
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Net outstanding standby letters of credit
  
$
10.8
 
 
$
10.1
 

 Internal credit ratings (as a percentage of portfolio):
  



 


 

 Pass (a)
  
 
94
% 
 
 
90
% 

 Below pass (b)
  
 
6
% 
 
 
10
% 



(a)
Indicates that expected risk of loss is currently low. 


(b)
Indicates a higher degree of risk of default. 
If the customer fails to meet its financial or performance obligation to the third party under the terms of the contract or there is a need to support a
remarketing program, then upon the request of the guaranteed party, we would be obligated to make payment to them. The standby letters of credit and risk participations in standby letters of credit and bankers’ acceptances outstanding on
December 31, 2011 had terms ranging from less than 1 year to 7 years. The aggregate maximum amount of future payments PNC could be required to make under outstanding standby letters of credit and risk participations in standby letters of credit
and bankers’ acceptances was $14.4 billion at December 31, 2011, of which $7.4 billion support remarketing programs.  As of
December 31, 2011, assets of $2.0 billion secured certain specifically identified standby letters of credit. Recourse provisions from third parties of $3.6 billion were


also available for this purpose as of December 31, 2011. In addition, a portion of the remaining standby letters of credit and letter of credit risk participations issued on behalf of
specific customers is also secured by collateral or guarantees that secure the customers’ other obligations to us. The carrying amount of the liability for our obligations related to standby letters of credit and risk participations in standby
letters of credit and bankers’ acceptances was $247 million at December 31, 2011.  STANDBY BOND
PURCHASE AGREEMENTS AND OTHER LIQUIDITY FACILITIES  We enter into standby bond purchase agreements to support municipal bond obligations. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate of our commitments under these facilities was $543 million. We also enter
into certain other liquidity facilities to support individual pools of receivables acquired by commercial paper conduits. At December 31, 2011, our total commitments under these facilities were $199 million. 
INDEMNIFICATIONS 
We are a party to numerous acquisition or divestiture agreements under which we have purchased or sold, or agreed to purchase or sell, various types of
assets. These agreements can cover the purchase or sale of: 


 
•
 
 Entire businesses, 


 
•
 
 Loan portfolios, 


 
•
 
 Branch banks, 


 
•
 
 Partial interests in companies, or 


 
•
 
 Other types of assets. 
These agreements generally include indemnification provisions under which we indemnify the third parties to these agreements against a variety of risks
to the indemnified parties as a result of the transaction in question. When PNC is the seller, the indemnification provisions will generally also provide the buyer with protection relating to the quality of the assets we are selling and the extent
of any liabilities being assumed by the buyer. Due to the nature of these indemnification provisions, we cannot quantify the total potential exposure to us resulting from them.  We provide indemnification in connection with securities offering transactions in which we are involved. When we are the issuer of the securities, we provide indemnification to the underwriters or
placement agents analogous to the indemnification provided to the purchasers of businesses from us, as described above. When we are an underwriter or placement agent, we provide a limited indemnification to the issuer related to our actions in
connection with the offering and, if there are other underwriters, indemnification to the other underwriters intended to result in an appropriate sharing of the risk of participating in the offering. Due to the nature of these indemnification
provisions, we cannot quantify the total potential exposure to us resulting from them.  In the ordinary course of business, we enter into
certain types of agreements that include provisions for indemnifying third  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    197 


Table of Contents


parties. We also enter into certain types of agreements, including leases, assignments of leases, and subleases, in which we agree to indemnify third parties for acts by our agents, assignees
and/or sublessees, and employees. We also enter into contracts for the delivery of technology service in which we indemnify the other party against claims of patent and copyright infringement by third parties. Due to the nature of these
indemnification provisions, we cannot calculate our aggregate potential exposure under them.  We engage in certain insurance activities that
require our employees to be bonded. We satisfy this bonding requirement by issuing letters of credit, which were insignificant in amount at December 31, 2011.  In the ordinary course of business, we enter into contracts with third parties under which the third parties provide services on behalf of PNC. In many of these contracts, we agree to indemnify the third
party service provider under certain circumstances. The terms of the indemnity vary from contract to contract and the amount of the indemnification liability, if any, cannot be determined.  We are a general or limited partner in certain asset management and investment limited partnerships, many of which contain indemnification provisions that would require us to make payments in excess of
our remaining unfunded commitments. While in certain of these partnerships the maximum liability to us is limited to the sum of our unfunded commitments and partnership distributions received by us, in the others the indemnification liability is
unlimited. As a result, we cannot determine our aggregate potential exposure for these indemnifications.  In some cases, indemnification
obligations of the types described above arise under arrangements entered into by predecessor companies for which we become responsible as a result of the acquisition.  Pursuant to their bylaws, PNC and its subsidiaries provide indemnification to directors, officers and, in some cases, employees and agents against certain liabilities incurred as a result of their service
on behalf of or at the request of PNC and its subsidiaries. PNC and its subsidiaries also advance on behalf of covered individuals costs incurred in connection with certain claims or proceedings, subject to written undertakings by each such
individual to repay all amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that the individual is not entitled to indemnification. We generally are responsible for similar indemnifications and advancement obligations that companies we acquire had to
their officers, directors and sometimes employees and agents at the time of acquisition. We advanced such costs on behalf of several such individuals with respect to pending litigation or investigations during 2011. It is not possible for us to
determine the aggregate potential exposure resulting from the obligation to provide this indemnity or to advance such costs.

In connection with the sale of GIS, and in addition to indemnification provisions as part of the
divestiture agreements, PNC agreed to continue to act for the benefit of GIS as securities lending agent for certain of GIS’s clients. In such role, we provided indemnification to those clients against the failure of the borrowers to return the
securities. The market value of the securities lent was fully secured on a daily basis; therefore, the exposure to us was limited to temporary shortfalls in the collateral as a result of short-term fluctuations in trading prices of the loaned
securities. In addition, the purchaser of GIS, BNY-Mellon, has entered into an agreement to indemnify PNC with respect to such exposure on the terms set forth in such indemnification agreement. Effective July 18, 2011, PNC Bank, National
Association assigned its securities lending agent responsibilities to BNY-Mellon and no longer acts as securities lending agent for any of GIS’s clients. Also in connection with the GIS divestiture, PNC has agreed to indemnify the buyer
generally as described above.  VISA INDEMNIFICATION  Our payment services business issues and acquires credit and debit card transactions through Visa U.S.A. Inc. card association or its affiliates (Visa). 
In October 2007, Visa completed a restructuring and issued shares of Visa Inc. common stock to its financial institution members (Visa Reorganization) in
contemplation of its initial public offering (IPO). As part of the Visa Reorganization, we received our proportionate share of a class of Visa Inc. common stock allocated to the US members. Prior to the IPO, the US members, which included PNC, were
obligated to indemnify Visa for judgments and settlements related to the specified litigation.  As a result of the acquisition of National
City, we became party to judgment and loss sharing agreements with Visa and certain other banks. The judgment and loss sharing agreements were designed to apportion financial responsibilities arising from any potential adverse judgment or negotiated
settlements related to the specified litigation.  In March 2011, Visa funded $400 million to their litigation escrow account and reduced the
conversion ratio of Visa B to A shares. We consequently recognized our estimated $38 million share of the $400 million as a reduction of our previously established indemnification liability and a reduction of noninterest expense. 
In December 2011, Visa funded $1.6 billion to their litigation escrow account. We consequently recognized $32 million as a reduction of our previously
established indemnification liability and a reduction of noninterest expense. As of December 31, 2011, our recognized Visa indemnification liability was zero. As we continue to have an obligation to indemnify Visa for judgments and settlements
for the remaining specified litigation, we may have additional exposure in the future to the specified Visa litigation.  
 
198    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

RECOURSE AND REPURCHASE OBLIGATIONS
 As discussed in Note 3 Loans Sale and Servicing Activities and Variable Interest Entities, PNC has sold commercial mortgage and
residential mortgage loans directly or indirectly in securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions with continuing involvement. One form of continuing involvement includes certain recourse and loan repurchase obligations associated with the
transferred assets in these transactions.  COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOAN RECOURSE
OBLIGATIONS  We originate, close and service certain multi-family commercial mortgage loans which are sold to FNMA under
FNMA’s DUS program. We participated in a similar program with the FHLMC.  Under these programs, we generally assume up to a one-third
pari passu risk of loss on unpaid principal balances through a loss share arrangement. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the unpaid principal balance outstanding of loans sold as a participant in these programs was $13.0 billion
and $13.2 billion, respectively. The potential maximum exposure under the loss share arrangements was $4.0 billion at both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. We maintain a reserve for estimated losses based upon our exposure. The
reserve for losses under these programs totaled $47 million and $54 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and is included in Other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. If payment is required under
these programs, we would not have a contractual interest in the collateral underlying the mortgage loans on which losses occurred, although the value of the collateral is taken into account in determining our share of such losses. Our exposure and
activity associated with these recourse obligations are reported in the Corporate & Institutional Banking segment.  Analysis of
Commercial Mortgage Recourse Obligations   












In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 January 1
  
$
54
 
 
$
71
 

 Reserve adjustments, net
  
 
1
 
 
 
9
 

 Losses – loan repurchases and settlements
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Loan sales
  
 
 
 
 
 
(24
) 

 December 31
  
$
47
 
 
$
54
 
 RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN AND HOME
EQUITY REPURCHASE OBLIGATIONS  While residential mortgage loans are sold on a non-recourse
basis, we assume certain loan repurchase obligations associated with mortgage loans we have sold to investors. These loan repurchase obligations primarily relate to situations where PNC is alleged to have breached certain origination covenants and
representations and warranties made to purchasers of the loans in the respective purchase and sale agreements. Residential mortgage loans covered by these loan repurchase obligations include first and second-lien


mortgage loans we have sold through Agency securitizations, Non-Agency securitizations, and whole-loan sale transactions. As discussed in Note 3 in this Report, Agency securitizations consist of
mortgage loans sale transactions with FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA, while Non-Agency securitizations and whole-loan sale transactions consist of mortgage loans sale transactions with private investors. Our historical exposure and activity associated with
Agency securitization repurchase obligations has primarily been related to transactions with FNMA and FHLMC, as indemnification and repurchase losses associated with FHA and VA-insured and uninsured loans pooled in GNMA securitizations historically
have been minimal. Repurchase obligation activity associated with residential mortgages is reported in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment.  PNC’s repurchase obligations also include certain brokered home equity loans/lines that were sold to a limited number of private investors in the financial services industry by National City prior to
our acquisition. PNC is no longer engaged in the brokered home equity lending business, and our exposure under these loan repurchase obligations is limited to repurchases of whole-loans sold in these transactions. Repurchase activity associated with
brokered home equity loans/lines is reported in the Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio segment.  Loan covenants and representations and warranties
are established through loan sale agreements with various investors to provide assurance that PNC has sold loans to investors of sufficient investment quality. Key aspects of such covenants and representations and warranties include the loan’s
compliance with any applicable loan criteria established by the investor, including underwriting standards, delivery of all required loan documents to the investor or its designated party, sufficient collateral valuation, and the validity of the
lien securing the loan. As a result of alleged breaches of these contractual obligations, investors may request PNC to indemnify them against losses on certain loans or to repurchase loans.  These investor indemnification or repurchase claims are typically settled on an individual loan basis through make-whole payments or loan repurchases; however, on occasion we may negotiate pooled
settlements with investors.  Indemnifications for loss or loan repurchases typically occur when, after review of the claim, we agree
insufficient evidence exists to dispute the investor’s claim that a breach of a loan covenant and representation and warranty has occurred, such breach has not been cured, and the effect of such breach is deemed to have had a material and
adverse effect on the value of the transferred loan. Depending on the sale agreement and upon proper notice from the investor, we typically respond to such indemnification and repurchase requests within 60 days, although final resolution of the
claim may take a longer period of time. With the exception of the sales  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    199 


Table of Contents


agreements associated with the Agency securitizations, most sale agreements do not provide for penalties or other remedies if we do not respond timely to investor indemnification or repurchase
requests.  Origination and sale of residential mortgages is an ongoing business activity and, accordingly, management continually assesses the
need to recognize indemnification and repurchase liabilities pursuant to the associated investor sale agreements. We establish indemnification and repurchase liabilities for estimated losses on sold first and second-lien mortgages and home equity
loans/lines for which indemnification is expected to be provided or for loans that are expected to be repurchased. For the first and second-lien mortgage sold portfolio, we have established an indemnification and repurchase liability pursuant to
investor sale agreements based on claims made and our estimate of future claims on a loan by loan basis. These relate primarily to loans originated during 2006-2008. For the home equity loans/lines sold portfolio, we have established indemnification
and repurchase liabilities based upon this same methodology for loans sold during 2005-2007.  Indemnification and repurchase liabilities are
initially recognized when loans are sold to investors and are


subsequently evaluated by management. Initial recognition and subsequent adjustments to the indemnification and repurchase liability for the sold residential mortgage portfolio are recognized in
Residential mortgage revenue on the Consolidated Income Statement. Since PNC is no longer engaged in the brokered home equity lending business, only subsequent adjustments are recognized to the home equity loans/lines indemnification and repurchase
liability. These adjustments are recognized in Other noninterest income on the Consolidated Income Statement.  Management’s subsequent
evaluation of these indemnification and repurchase liabilities is based upon trends in indemnification and repurchase requests, actual loss experience, risks in the underlying serviced loan portfolios, and current economic conditions. As part of its
evaluation, management considers estimated loss projections over the life of the subject loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the total indemnification and repurchase liability for estimated losses on indemnification
and repurchase claims totaled $130 million and $294 million, respectively, and was included in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. An analysis of the changes in this liability during 2011 and 2010 follows:
 
  Analysis of Indemnification and
Repurchase Liability for Asserted Claims and Unasserted Claims   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

In millions
  
ResidentialMortgages (a)
 
 
Home EquityLoans/Lines (b)
 
 
Total
 
 
ResidentialMortgages (a)
 
 
Home EquityLoans/Lines (b)
 
 
Total
 

 January 1
  
$
144
 
 
$
150
 
 
$
294
 
 
$
229
 
 
$
41
 
 
$
270
 

 Reserve adjustments, net
  
 
102
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
106
 
 
 
120
 
 
 
144
 
 
 
264
 

 Losses – loan repurchases and settlements
  
 
(163
) 
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
(270
) 
 
 
(205
) 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
(240
) 

 December 31
  
$
83
 
 
$
47
 
 
$
130
 
 
$
144
 
 
$
150
 
 
$
294
 



(a)
Repurchase obligation associated with sold loan portfolios of $121.4 billion and $139.8 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.



(b)
Repurchase obligation associated with sold loan portfolios of $4.5 billion and $6.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. PNC is
no longer engaged in the brokered home equity lending business, which was acquired with National City. 
 

Management believes our indemnification and repurchase liabilities appropriately reflect the estimated
probable losses on investor indemnification and repurchase claims at December 31, 2011 and 2010. While management seeks to obtain all relevant information in estimating the indemnification and repurchase liability, the estimation process is
inherently uncertain and imprecise and, accordingly, it is reasonably possible that future indemnification and repurchase losses could be more or less than our established liability. Factors that could affect our estimate include the volume of valid
claims driven by investor strategies and behavior, our ability to successfully negotiate claims with investors, housing prices, and other economic conditions. At December 31, 2011, we estimate that it is reasonably possible that we could incur
additional losses in excess of our indemnification and repurchase liability of up to $85 million. This estimate of potential additional losses in excess of our liability is based on assumed higher investor


demands, lower claim rescissions, and lower home prices than our current assumptions. 
REINSURANCE AGREEMENTS  We have two wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiaries which provide reinsurance to third-party insurers related to insurance sold to our customers. These subsidiaries enter into various types of
reinsurance agreements with third-party insurers where the subsidiary assumes the risk of loss through either an excess of loss or quota share agreement up to 100% reinsurance. In excess of loss agreements, these subsidiaries assume the risk of loss
for an excess layer of coverage up to specified limits, once a defined first loss percentage is met. In quota share agreements, the subsidiaries and third-party insurers share the responsibility for payment of all claims. 
These subsidiaries provide reinsurance for accidental death & dismemberment, credit life, accident & health, lender placed
 
 
200    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


hazard, and borrower and lender paid mortgage insurance with an aggregate maximum exposure up to the specified limits for all reinsurance contracts as follows: 
Reinsurance Agreements Exposure   












In millions
  
December 312011
 
 
December 312010
 

 Accidental Death & Dismemberment
  
$
2,255
 
 
$
2,367
 

 Credit Life, Accident & Health
  
 
951
 
 
 
1,003
 

 Lender Placed Hazard (a)
  
 
2,899
 
 
 
709
 

 Borrower and Lender Paid Mortgage Insurance
  
 
327
 
 
 
463
 

 Maximum Exposure
  
$
6,432
 
 
$
4,542
 

 Percentage of reinsurance agreements:
  



 


 

 Excess of Loss – Mortgage Insurance
  
 
4
% 
 
 
8
% 

 Quota Share
  
 
96
% 
 
 
92
% 

 Maximum Exposure to Quota Share Agreements with 100% Reinsurance
  
$
950
 
 
$
1,001
 



(a)
Transitioned to new Lender Placed Hazard reinsurance program in third quarter 2010 that lowered risk to PNC through the reduction in percentage of risk assumed and the
change from a stop loss feature to the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. As such, should a catastrophe event occur PNC will benefit from this reinsurance. No credit for the catastrophe reinsurance protection is applied to the gross exposure
figure.  A rollforward of the reinsurance reserves for probable losses for 2011 and 2010 follows: 
Reinsurance Reserves – Rollforward   












In millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 January 1
  
$
150
 
 
$
220
 

 Paid Losses
  
 
(109
) 
 
 
(118
) 

 Net Provision
  
 
41
 
 
 
51
 

 Changes to Agreements
  
 
 
 
 
 
(3
) 

 December 31
  
$
82
 
 
$
150
 
 Changes to agreements only represent entering into a new relationship or exiting an existing agreement entirely. The
impact of changing the terms of existing agreements is reflected in the net provision.  There is a reasonable possibility that losses could be
more than or less than the amount reserved due to on-going uncertainty in various economic, social and other factors that could impact the frequency and severity of claims covered by these reinsurance agreements. At December 31, 2011, the
reasonably possible loss above our accrual was not material.  REPURCHASE AND RESALE
AGREEMENTS  We enter into repurchase and resale agreements where we transfer investment securities to/from a third party
with the agreement to repurchase/resell those investment securities at a future date for a specified price. These transactions are accounted for as collateralized borrowings/financings.

NOTE 24 PARENT COMPANY 
Summarized financial information of the parent company is as follows:  Income Statement   
















Year ended December 31 - in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating Revenue
  



 



 


 

 Dividends from:
  



 



 


 

 Bank subsidiaries and bank holding company
  
$
2,513
 
 
$
2,180
 
 
$
839
 

 Non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
131
 
 
 
575
 
 
 
84
 

 Interest income
  
 
1
 
 



 
 
12
 

 Noninterest income
  
 
24
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
28
 

 Total operating revenue
  
 
2,669
 
 
 
2,782
 
 
 
963
 

 OPERATING EXPENSE
  



 



 


 

 Interest expense
  
 
333
 
 
 
458
 
 
 
495
 

 Other expense
  
 
275
 
 
 
(61
) 
 
 
21
 

 Total operating expense
  
 
608
 
 
 
397
 
 
 
516
 

 Income before income taxes and equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries
  
 
2,061
 
 
 
2,385
 
 
 
447
 

 Income tax benefits
  
 
(113
) 
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
(147
) 

 Income before equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries
  
 
2,174
 
 
 
2,638
 
 
 
594
 

 Equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries:
  



 



 


 

 Bank subsidiaries and bank holding company
  
 
699
 
 
 
677
 
 
 
1,736
 

 Non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
183
 
 
 
97
 
 
 
117
 

 Net income
  
$
3,056
 
 
$
3,412
 
 
$
2,447
 
 Balance Sheet   












December 31 - in millions
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 ASSETS
  



  


 

 Cash held at banking subsidiary
  
$
2
 
  
$
151
 

 Restricted deposits with banking subsidiary
  
 
400
 
  
 
250
 

 Interest-earning deposits
  
 
6
 
  
 
5
 

 Investments in:
  



  


 

 Bank subsidiaries and bank holding company
  
 
35,355
 
  
 
34,049
 

 Non-bank subsidiaries
  
 
2,036
 
  
 
1,951
 

 Other assets
  
 
1,675
 
  
 
1,523
 

 Total assets
  
$
39,474
 
  
$
37,929
 

 LIABILITIES
  



  


 

 Subordinated debt
  
$
3,303
 
  
$
3,804
 

 Senior debt
  
 
381
 
  
 
1,799
 

 Bank affiliate borrowings
  
 
144
 
  
 
112
 

 Non-bank affiliate borrowings
  
 
631
 
  
 
964
 

 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
  
 
962
 
  
 
1,008
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
5,421
 
  
 
7,687
 

 EQUITY
  



  


 

 Shareholder’s equity
  
 
34,053
 
  
 
30,242
 

 Total liabilities and equity
  
$
39,474
 
  
$
37,929
 
  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    201 


Table of Contents

Commercial paper and all other debt issued by PNC Funding Corp, a wholly owned finance subsidiary, is fully
and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent company. In addition, in connection with certain affiliates’ commercial and residential mortgage servicing operations, the parent company has committed to maintain such affiliates’ net worth
above minimum requirements.  The Parent Company Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010 reflects a $250 million revision to correct deposits with a
banking subsidiary that was previously reported as Cash and due from banks and is now reported as Restricted deposits with banking subsidiary. This change in classification has also been reflected in the Parent Company Statement of Cash Flows as
presented below. Management believes that the impact of this misstatement and correction is not material.  Parent Company –
Interest Paid and Income Tax Refunds (Payments)   












Year ended December 31 - in millions
  
InterestPaid
 
  
IncomeTaxRefunds /(Payments)
 

 2011
  
$
361
 
  
$
(130
) 

 2010
  
 
419
 
  
 
342
 

 2009
  
 
427
 
  
 
137
 
 Statement Of Cash Flows   
















Year ended December 31 - in millions
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 



 



 


 

 Net income
 
$
3,056
 
 
$
3,412
 
 
$
2,447
 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
 



 



 


 

 Equity in undistributed net earnings of subsidiaries
 
 
(882
) 
 
 
(774
) 
 
 
(1,853
) 

 Other
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
2,687
 

 Net cash provided (used) by operating activities
 
 
2,150
  
 
 
2,585
 
 
 
3,281
 

 INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 



 



 


 

 Net capital returned from (contributed to) subsidiaries
 
 
50
 
 
 
1,766
 
 
 
(899
) 

 Investment securities:
 



 



 


 

 Sales and maturities
 



 



 
 
267
 

 Purchases
 



 



 
 
(228
) 

 Net cash received from acquisitions
 



 



 
 
5
 

 Net change in Restricted deposits with banking subsidiary
 
 
(150
) 
 
 
(232
) 
 
 
(8
) 

 Other
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
1
 
 
 
(182
) 

 Net cash provided (used) by investing activities
 
 
(135
) 
 
 
1,535
 
 
 
(1,045
) 

















Year ended December 31 - in millions
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 



 



 


 

 Borrowings from subsidiaries
 
 
4,660
 
 
 
7,580
 
 
 
3,420
 

 Repayments on borrowings from subsidiaries
 
 
(4,962
) 
 
 
(6,596
) 
 
 
(4,274
) 

 Other borrowed funds
 
 
(2,188
) 
 
 
(379
) 
 
 
(1,166
) 

 Preferred stock – TARP
 



 
 
(7,579
) 
 


 

 Preferred stock – Other
 
 
987
 
 
 
(1
) 
 


 

 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program – common stock
 



 



 
 
624
 

 Common and treasury stock
 
 
72
 
 
 
3,474
 
 
 
247
 

 Acquisition of treasury stock
 
 
(73
) 
 
 
(204
) 
 
 
(188
) 

 Preferred stock cash dividends paid
 
 
(56
) 
 
 
(146
) 
 
 
(388
) 

 Common stock cash dividends paid
 
 
(604
) 
 
 
(204
) 
 
 
(430
) 

 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
 
 
(2,164
) 
 
 
(4,055
) 
 
 
(2,155
) 

 Increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks
 
 
(149
) 
 
 
65
  
 
 
81
 

 Cash held at banking subsidiary at beginning of year
 
 
151
 
 
 
86
 
 
 
5
 

 Cash held at banking subsidiary at end of year
 
$
2
 
 
$
151
 
 
$
86
 

NOTE 25 SEGMENT REPORTING 
We have six reportable business segments: 


 
•
 
 Retail Banking 


 
•
 
 Corporate & Institutional Banking 


 
•
 
 Asset Management Group 


 
•
 
 Residential Mortgage Banking 


 
•
 
 BlackRock 


 
•
 
 Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio  Results of individual businesses are presented based on our management accounting practices and management structure. There is no comprehensive, authoritative body of guidance for management accounting
equivalent to GAAP; therefore, the financial results of our individual businesses are not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other company. We refine our methodologies from time to time as our management accounting practices are
enhanced and our businesses and management structure change.  Financial results are presented, to the extent practicable, as if each business
operated on a stand-alone basis. Additionally, we have aggregated the results for corporate support functions within “Other” for financial reporting purposes.  Assets receive a funding charge and liabilities and capital receive a funding credit based on a transfer pricing methodology that incorporates product maturities, duration and other factors. 
A portion of capital is intended to cover unexpected losses and is assigned to our business segments using our risk-based economic capital model,
including consideration of the goodwill and other intangible assets at those business segments, as well as the diversification of risk among the business segments. We have revised certain capital allocations among our business segments, including
amounts for prior periods. PNC’s total capital did not change as a result of these adjustments for any periods presented.
 
 
202    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents

We have allocated the allowances for loan and lease losses and for unfunded loan commitments and letters of
credit based on our assessment of risk in each business segment’s loan portfolio. Our allocation of the costs incurred by operations and other shared support areas not directly aligned with the businesses is primarily based on the use of
services.  Total business segment financial results differ from consolidated income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
interests, which itself excludes the earnings and revenue attributable to GIS through June 30, 2010 and the related third quarter 2010 after-tax gain on the sale of GIS that are reflected in discontinued operations. The impact of these
differences is reflected in the “Other” category in the business segment tables. “Other” includes residual activities that do not meet the criteria for disclosure as a separate reportable business, such as gains or losses related
to BlackRock transactions, integration costs, asset and liability management activities including net securities gains or losses, other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities and certain trading activities, exited businesses, alternative
investments, including private equity, intercompany eliminations, most corporate overhead, tax adjustments that are not allocated to business segments, and differences between business segment performance reporting and financial statement reporting
(GAAP), including the presentation of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests as the segments’ results exclude their portion of net income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Assets, revenue and earnings attributable to
foreign activities were not material in the periods presented for comparative purposes.  BUSINESS SEGMENT
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES  Retail Banking provides deposit, lending, brokerage,
investment management, and cash management services to consumer and small business customers within our primary geographic markets. Our customers are serviced through our branch network, call centers and online banking channels. The branch network
is located primarily in Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Jersey, Michigan, Illinois, Maryland, Indiana, Kentucky, Florida, Washington, D.C., Delaware, Virginia, Missouri, Wisconsin and Georgia.  Corporate & Institutional Banking provides lending, treasury management, and capital markets-related products and services to mid-sized corporations, government and not-for-profit
entities, and selectively to large corporations. Lending products include secured and unsecured loans, letters of credit and equipment leases. Treasury management services include cash and investment management, receivables management, disbursement
services, funds transfer services, information reporting, and global trade services. Capital markets-related products and services include foreign exchange, derivatives, loan syndications, mergers and acquisitions advisory and related services to
middle-market companies, our multi-seller conduit, securities underwriting, and securities sales and trading. Corporate & Institutional


Banking also provides commercial loan servicing, and real estate advisory and technology solutions for the commercial real estate finance industry. Corporate & Institutional Banking
provides products and services generally within our primary geographic markets, with certain products and services offered nationally and internationally.  Asset Management Group includes personal wealth management for high net worth and ultra high net worth clients and institutional asset management. Wealth management products and services
include financial and retirement planning, customized investment management, private banking, tailored credit solutions and trust management and administration for individuals and their families. Institutional asset management provides investment
management, custody, and retirement planning services. The institutional clients include corporations, unions, municipalities, non-profits, foundations and endowments located primarily in our geographic footprint. 
Residential Mortgage Banking directly originates primarily first lien residential mortgage loans on a nationwide basis with a significant
presence within the retail banking footprint, and also originates loans through majority owned affiliates. Mortgage loans represent loans collateralized by one-to-four-family residential real estate. These loans are typically underwritten to
government agency and/or third-party standards, and sold, servicing retained, to secondary mortgage conduits FNMA, FHLMC, Federal Home Loan Banks and third-party investors, or are securitized and issued under the GNMA program. The mortgage servicing
operation performs all functions related to servicing mortgage loans – primarily those in first lien position – for various investors and for loans owned by PNC. Certain loans originated through majority owned affiliates are sold to
others.  BlackRock is a leader in investment management, risk management and advisory services for
institutional and retail clients worldwide. BlackRock provides diversified investment management services to institutional clients, intermediary and individual investors through various investment vehicles. Investment management services primarily
consist of the management of equity, fixed income, multi-asset class, alternative investment and cash management products. BlackRock offers its investment products in a variety of vehicles, including open-end and closed-end mutual funds,
iShares® exchange-traded funds (“ETFs”), collective investment trusts and separate accounts. In
addition, BlackRock provides market risk management, financial markets advisory and enterprise investment system services to a broad base of clients. Financial markets advisory services include valuation services relating to illiquid securities,
dispositions and workout assignments (including long-term portfolio liquidation assignments), risk management and strategic planning and execution. At December 31, 2011, our economic interest in BlackRock was 21%.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    203 


Table of Contents
PNC received cash dividends from BlackRock of $212 million during 2011, $178 million during 2010, and $134
million during 2009.  Non-Strategic Assets Portfolio (formerly, Distressed Assets Portfolio) includes commercial residential
development loans, cross-border leases, consumer brokered home equity loans, retail mortgages, non-prime mortgages, and residential construction loans. We obtained the majority of these non-strategic assets through acquisitions of other companies,
and most of these assets fall outside of our core business strategy. 
 
204    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Results Of Businesses 
 




































 Year ended December 31
In millions
  
 Retail
Banking
 
 

Corporate &
Institutional
Banking
 
 
 Asset
Management
Group
 
 
 Residential
Mortgage
Banking
 
 

BlackRock
 
  
Non-StrategicAssetsPortfolio
 
 
 Other
 
 

Consolidated
 

 2011
  



 



 



 



 



  



 



 


 

 Income Statement
  



 



 



 



 



  



 



 


 

 Net interest income
  
$
3,278
  
 
$
3,344
  
 
$
238
  
 
$
201
  
 



  
$
913
  
 
$
726
  
 
$
8,700
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
1,762
  
 
 
1,252
  
 
 
649
  
 
 
747
  
 
$
464
  
  
 
47
  
 
 
705
  
 
 
5,626
  

 Total revenue
  
 
5,040
  
 
 
4,596
  
 
 
887
  
 
 
948
  
 
 
464
  
  
 
960
  
 
 
1,431
  
 
 
14,326
  

 Provision for credit losses (benefit)
  
 
891
  
 
 
(124
) 
 
 
(24
) 
 
 
5
  
 



  
 
366
  
 
 
38
  
 
 
1,152
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
186
  
 
 
144
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
10
  
 



  



 
 
278
  
 
 
659
  

 Other noninterest expense
  
 
3,917
  
 
 
1,686
  
 
 
646
  
 
 
787
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
275
  
 
 
1,135
  
 
 
8,446
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests
  
 
46
  
 
 
2,890
  
 
 
224
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
464
  
  
 
319
  
 
 
(20
) 
 
 
4,069
  

 Income taxes (benefit)
  
 
15
  
 
 
1,015
  
 
 
83
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
103
  
  
 
119
  
 
 
(396
) 
 
 
998
  

 Income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
interests
  
$
31
  
 
$
1,875
  
 
$
141
  
 
$
87
  
 
$
361
  
  
$
200
  
 
$
376
  
 
$
3,071
  

 Inter-segment revenue
  
$
1
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
13
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
16
  
  
$
(10
) 
 
$
(47
) 
 
 
 
 

 Average Assets (a)
  
$
66,448
  
 
$
81,043
  
 
$
6,719
  
 
$
11,270
  
 
$
5,516
  
  
$
13,119
  
 
$
81,220
  
 
$
265,335
  

 2010
  



 



 



 



 



  



 



 


 

 Income Statement
  



 



 



 



 



  



 



 


 

 Net interest income
  
$
3,433
  
 
$
3,535
  
 
$
256
  
 
$
256
  
 



  
$
1,229
  
 
$
521
  
 
$
9,230
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
1,951
  
 
 
1,363
  
 
 
628
  
 
 
736
  
 
$
462
  
  
 
(93
) 
 
 
899
  
 
 
5,946
  

 Total revenue
  
 
5,384
  
 
 
4,898
  
 
 
884
  
 
 
992
  
 
 
462
  
  
 
1,136
  
 
 
1,420
  
 
 
15,176
  

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
1,103
  
 
 
303
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
5
  
 



  
 
976
  
 
 
95
  
 
 
2,502
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
218
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
3
  
 



  



 
 
287
  
 
 
697
  

 Other noninterest expense
  
 
3,838
  
 
 
1,673
  
 
 
606
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
250
  
 
 
989
  
 
 
7,916
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests
  
 
225
  
 
 
2,774
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
424
  
 
 
462
  
  
 
(90
) 
 
 
49
  
 
 
4,061
  

 Income taxes (benefit)
  
 
81
  
 
 
980
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
111
  
  
 
(33
) 
 
 
(337
) 
 
 
1,037
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before noncontrolling interests
  
$
144
  
 
$
1,794
  
 
$
137
  
 
$
269
  
 
$
351
  
  
$
(57
) 
 
$
386
  
 
$
3,024
  

 Inter-segment revenue
  
$
1
  
 
 
21
  
 
$
13
  
 
$
12
  
 
$
22
  
  
$
(12
) 
 
$
(57
) 
 
 
 
 

 Average Assets (a)
  
$
67,428
  
 
$
77,540
  
 
$
6,954
  
 
$
9,247
  
 
$
5,428
  
  
$
17,517
  
 
$
80,788
  
 
$
264,902
  

 2009
  



 



 



 



 



  



 



 


 

 Income Statement
  



 



 



 



 



  



 



 


 

 Net interest income
  
$
3,520
  
 
$
3,801
  
 
$
308
  
 
$
332
  
 



  
$
1,079
  
 
$
43
  
 
$
9,083
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
2,199
  
 
 
1,433
  
 
 
611
  
 
 
996
  
 
$
262
  
  
 
74
  
 
 
1,570
  
 
 
7,145
  

 Total revenue
  
 
5,719
  
 
 
5,234
  
 
 
919
  
 
 
1,328
  
 
 
262
  
  
 
1,153
  
 
 
1,613
  
 
 
16,228
  

 Provision for credit losses (benefit)
  
 
1,330
  
 
 
1,603
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
(4
) 
 



  
 
771
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
3,930
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
263
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
5
  
 



  



 
 
323
  
 
 
773
  

 Other noninterest expense
  
 
3,906
  
 
 
1,659
  
 
 
613
  
 
 
627
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
246
  
 
 
1,249
  
 
 
8,300
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests
  
 
220
  
 
 
1,831
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
700
  
 
 
262
  
  
 
136
  
 
 
(92
) 
 
 
3,225
  

 Income taxes (benefit)
  
 
84
  
 
 
641
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
55
  
  
 
52
  
 
 
(293
) 
 
 
867
  

 Income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
interests
  
$
136
  
 
$
1,190
  
 
$
105
  
 
$
435
  
 
$
207
  
  
$
84
  
 
$
201
  
 
$
2,358
  

 Inter-segment revenue
  
$
(3
) 
 
$
11
  
 
$
18
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
16
  
  
$
(17
) 
 
$
(31
) 
 
 
 
 

 Average Assets (a)
  
$
65,320
  
 
$
84,689
  
 
$
7,320
  
 
$
8,420
  
 
$
6,249
  
  
$
22,844
  
 
$
82,034
  
 
$
276,876
  



(a)
Period-end balances for BlackRock. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    205 


Table of Contents
STATISTICAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) 
THE PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP, INC. 
Selected Quarterly Financial Data   




































 Dollars in millions,
except per share data
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

  
Fourth
 
  
Third
 
  
Second
 
  
First
 
  
Fourth
 
  
Third
 
  
Second
 
  
First
 

 Summary Of Operations
  



  



  



  


 
  



  



  



  




 Interest income
  
$
2,534
 
  
$
2,530
 
  
$
2,547
 
  
$
2,583
 
  
$
2,671
 
  
$
2,701
 
  
$
2,873
 
  
$
2,905
 

 Interest expense
  
 
335
 
  
 
355
 
  
 
397
 
  
 
407
 
  
 
470
 
  
 
486
 
  
 
438
 
  
 
526
 

 Net interest income
  
 
2,199
 
  
 
2,175
 
  
 
2,150
 
  
 
2,176
 
  
 
2,201
 
  
 
2,215
 
  
 
2,435
 
  
 
2,379
 

 Noninterest income (a)
  
 
1,350
 
  
 
1,369
 
  
 
1,452
 
  
 
1,455
 
  
 
1,702
 
  
 
1,383
 
  
 
1,477
 
  
 
1,384
 

 Total revenue
  
 
3,549
 
  
 
3,544
 
  
 
3,602
 
  
 
3,631
 
  
 
3,903
 
  
 
3,598
 
  
 
3,912
 
  
 
3,763
 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
190
 
  
 
261
 
  
 
280
 
  
 
421
 
  
 
442
 
  
 
486
 
  
 
823
 
  
 
751
 

 Noninterest expense
  
 
2,719
 
  
 
2,140
 
  
 
2,176
 
  
 
2,070
 
  
 
2,340
 
  
 
2,158
 
  
 
2,002
 
  
 
2,113
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and noncontrolling interests
  
 
640
 
  
 
1,143
 
  
 
1,146
 
  
 
1,140
 
  
 
1,121
 
  
 
954
 
  
 
1,087
 
  
 
899
 

 Income taxes
  
 
147
 
  
 
309
 
  
 
234
 
  
 
308
 
  
 
301
 
  
 
179
 
  
 
306
 
  
 
251
 

 Income from continuing operations before noncontrolling interests
  
 
493
 
  
 
834
 
  
 
912
 
  
 
832
 
  
 
820
 
  
 
775
 
  
 
781
 
  
 
648
 

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes (b)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
328
 
  
 
22
 
  
 
23
 

 Net income
  
 
493
 
  
 
834
 
  
 
912
 
  
 
832
 
  
 
820
 
  
 
1,103
 
  
 
803
 
  
 
671
 

 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests
  
 
17
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
(1
) 
  
 
(5
) 
  
 
(3
) 
  
 
2
 
  
 
(9
) 
  
 
(5
) 

 Preferred stock dividends
  
 
24
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
24
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
24
 
  
 
4
 
  
 
25
 
  
 
93
 

 Preferred stock discount accretion and redemptions
  
 
1
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
3
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
250
 

 Net income attributable to common shareholders
  
$
451
 
  
$
826
 
  
$
888
 
  
$
833
 
  
$
798
 
  
$
1,094
 
  
$
786
 
  
$
333
 

 Per Common Share Data
  



  



  



  


 
  



  



  



  




 Book value
  
$
61.52
 
  
$
61.92
 
  
$
60.02
 
  
$
58.01
 
  
$
56.29
 
  
$
55.91
 
  
$
52.77
 
  
$
50.32
 

 Basic earnings (c)
  



  



  



  


 
  



  



  



  




 Continuing operations
  
 
0.86
 
  
 
1.57
 
  
 
1.69
 
  
 
1.59
 
  
 
1.52
 
  
 
1.45
 
  
 
1.45
 
  
 
0.62
 

 Discontinued operations (b)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
0.63
 
  
 
0.04
 
  
 
0.05
 

 Net income
  
 
0.86
 
  
 
1.57
 
  
 
1.69
 
  
 
1.59
 
  
 
1.52
 
  
 
2.08
 
  
 
1.49
 
  
 
0.67
 

 Diluted earnings (c)
  



  



  



  


 
  



  



  



  




 Continuing operations
  
 
0.85
 
  
 
1.55
 
  
 
1.67
 
  
 
1.57
 
  
 
1.50
 
  
 
1.45
 
  
 
1.43
 
  
 
0.61
 

 Discontinued operations (b)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
0.62
 
  
 
0.04
 
  
 
0.05
 

 Net income
  
 
0.85
 
  
 
1.55
 
  
 
1.67
 
  
 
1.57
 
  
 
1.50
 
  
 
2.07
 
  
 
1.47
 
  
 
0.66
 



(a)
Noninterest income included private equity gains/(losses) and net gains on sales of securities in each quarter as follows: 
 




































  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

in millions
  
Fourth
 
  
Third
 
  
Second
 
  
First
 
  
Fourth
 
  
Third
 
  
Second
 
  
First
 

 Private equity gains/(losses)
  
$
4
 
  
$
46
 
  
$
42
 
  
$
53
 
  
$
40
 
  
$
63
 
  
$
75
 
  
$
41
 

 Net gains on sales of securities
  
 
62
 
  
 
68
 
  
 
82
 
  
 
37
 
  
 
68
 
  
 
121
 
  
 
147
 
  
 
90
 



(b)
Includes results of operations for PNC Global Investment Servicing Inc. (GIS) and the related after-tax gain on sale. We sold GIS effective July 1, 2010, resulting
in a pretax gain $639 million, or $328 million after taxes, recognized during the third quarter 2010. 


(c)
The sum of the quarterly amounts for 2011 and 2010 does not equal the respective year’s amount because the quarterly calculations are based on a changing number of
average shares. 
 
206    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Analysis Of Year-To-Year Changes In Net Interest Income 
 




























 
  
2011/2010
 
  
2010/2009
 

 
  
Increase/(Decrease) in Income/Expense Due to Changes in:
 
  
Increase/(Decrease) in Income/Expense Due to Changes in:
 

Taxable-equivalent basis - in millions
  
Volume
 
 
Rate
 
  
Total
 
  
Volume
 
  
Rate
 
  
Total
 

 Interest-Earning Assets
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Investment securities
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Securities available for sale
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Residential mortgage-backed
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Agency
  
$
91
 
 
$
(108
) 
  
$
(17
) 
  
$
69
 
  
$
(196
) 
  
$
(127
) 

 Non-agency
  
 
(102
) 
 
 
(62
) 
  
 
(164
) 
  
 
(170
) 
  
 
(52
) 
  
 
(222
) 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(22
) 
  
 
(33
) 
  
 
(56
) 
  
 
(17
) 
  
 
(73
) 

 Asset-backed
  
 
35
 
 
 
(34
) 
  
 
1
 
  
 
18
 
  
 
(80
) 
  
 
(62
) 

 US Treasury and government agencies
  
 
(87
) 
 
 
(10
) 
  
 
(97
) 
  
 
87
 
  
 
(13
) 
  
 
74
 

 State and municipal
  
 
27
 
 
 
(15
) 
  
 
12
 
  
 
5
 
  



  
 
5
 

 Other debt
  
 
15
 
 
 
(7
) 
  
 
8
 
  
 
42
 
  
 
(9
) 
  
 
33
 

 Corporate stocks and other
  



 



  
 
 
 
  



  
 
(3
) 
  
 
(3
) 

 Total securities available for sale
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
(266
) 
  
 
(290
) 
  
 
132
 
  
 
(507
) 
  
 
(375
) 

 Securities held to maturity
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Residential mortgage-backed
  
 
83
 
 



  
 
83
 
  



  



  




 Commercial mortgage-backed
  
 
38
 
 
 
(24
) 
  
 
14
 
  
 
97
 
  
 
(14
) 
  
 
83
 

 Asset-backed
  
 
(33
) 
 
 
(13
) 
  
 
(46
) 
  
 
45
 
  
 
(49
) 
  
 
(4
) 

 State and municipal
  
 
12
 
 



  
 
12
 
  



  



  




 Other
  
 
12
 
 
 
(8
) 
  
 
4
 
  
 
(2
) 
  
 
2
 
  
 
 
 

 Total securities held to maturity
  
 
90
 
 
 
(23
) 
  
 
67
 
  
 
135
 
  
 
(56
) 
  
 
79
 

 Total investment securities
  
 
69
 
 
 
(292
) 
  
 
(223
) 
  
 
274
 
  
 
(570
) 
  
 
(296
) 

 Loans
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Commercial
  
 
258
 
 
 
(222
) 
  
 
36
 
  
 
(363
) 
  
 
(37
) 
  
 
(400
) 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
(192
) 
 
 
26
 
  
 
(166
) 
  
 
(222
) 
  
 
(25
) 
  
 
(247
) 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
(13
) 
  
 
(16
) 
  
 
4
 
  
 
23
 
  
 
27
 

 Consumer
  
 
(18
) 
 
 
(174
) 
  
 
(192
) 
  
 
136
 
  
 
(16
) 
  
 
120
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
(176
) 
 
 
(150
) 
  
 
(326
) 
  
 
(227
) 
  
 
100
 
  
 
(127
) 

 Total loans
  
 
(93
) 
 
 
(571
) 
  
 
(664
) 
  
 
(644
) 
  
 
17
 
  
 
(627
) 

 Loans held for sale
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
(61
) 
  
 
(70
) 
  
 
(87
) 
  
 
80
 
  
 
(7
) 

 Federal funds sold and resale agreements
  
 
7
 
 
 
(11
) 
  
 
(4
) 
  
 
1
 
  
 
(6
) 
  
 
(5
) 

 Other
  
 
(15
) 
 
 
44
 
  
 
29
 
  
 
(100
) 
  
 
111
 
  
 
11
 

 Total interest-earning assets
  
$
(20
) 
 
$
(912
) 
  
$
(932
) 
  
$
(690
) 
  
$
(234
) 
  
$
(924
) 

 Interest-Bearing Liabilities
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Interest-bearing deposits
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Money market
  
$
2
 
 
$
(79
) 
  
$
(77
) 
  
$
27
 
  
$
(314
) 
  
$
(287
) 

 Demand
  
 
3
 
 
 
(13
) 
  
 
(10
) 
  
 
4
 
  
 
(38
) 
  
 
(34
) 

 Savings
  
 
3
 
 
 
(1
) 
  
 
2
 
  
 
1
 
  
 
(2
) 
  
 
(1
) 

 Retail certificates of deposit
  
 
(120
) 
 
 
(80
) 
  
 
(200
) 
  
 
(197
) 
  
 
(218
) 
  
 
(415
) 

 Other time
  
 
(12
) 
 
 
3
 
  
 
(9
) 
  
 
(75
) 
  
 
37
 
  
 
(38
) 

 Time deposits in foreign offices
  
 
(1
) 
 



  
 
(1
) 
  
 
(2
) 
  
 
(1
) 
  
 
(3
) 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
  
 
(38
) 
 
 
(257
) 
  
 
(295
) 
  
 
(128
) 
  
 
(650
) 
  
 
(778
) 

 Borrowed funds
  



 



  



  



  



  




 Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements
  



 
 
(6
) 
  
 
(6
) 
  



  
 
(3
) 
  
 
(3
) 

 Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
8
 
  
 
(18
) 
  
 
(70
) 
  
 
(59
) 
  
 
(129
) 

 Bank notes and senior debt
  
 
(38
) 
 
 
(30
) 
  
 
(68
) 
  
 
(7
) 
  
 
(116
) 
  
 
(123
) 

 Subordinated debt
  
 
(36
) 
 
 
(13
) 
  
 
(49
) 
  
 
(31
) 
  
 
(64
) 
  
 
(95
) 

 Other
  
 
3
 
 
 
5
 
  
 
8
 
  
 
32
 
  
 
(17
) 
  
 
15
 

 Total borrowed funds
  
 
(102
) 
 
 
(31
) 
  
 
(133
) 
  
 
(110
) 
  
 
(225
) 
  
 
(335
) 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
  
 
(100
) 
 
 
(328
) 
  
 
(428
) 
  
 
(231
) 
  
 
(882
) 
  
 
(1,113
) 

 Change in net interest income
  
$
(17
) 
 
$
(487
) 
  
$
(504
) 
  
$
(543
) 
  
$
732
 
  
$
189
 
 Changes attributable to rate/volume are prorated into rate and volume components. 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    207 


Table of Contents
Average Consolidated Balance Sheet And Net Interest Analysis 
 








































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Taxable-equivalent basis Dollars in millions
 
AverageBalances
 
 
InterestIncome/Expense
 
 
AverageYields/Rates
 
 
AverageBalances
 
 
InterestIncome/Expense
 
 
AverageYields/Rates
 
 
AverageBalances
 
 
InterestIncome/Expense
 
 
AverageYields/Rates
 

 Assets
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest-earning assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Investment securities
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Securities available for sale
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency
 
$
25,892
 
 
$
894
 
 
 
3.45
% 
 
$
23,437
 
 
$
911
 
 
 
3.89
% 
 
$
21,889
 
 
$
1,038
 
 
 
4.74
% 

 Non-agency
 
 
7,413
 
 
 
394
 
 
 
5.31
 
 
 
9,240
 
 
 
558
 
 
 
6.04
 
 
 
11,993
 
 
 
780
 
 
 
6.50
 

 Commercial mortgage-backed
 
 
3,461
 
 
 
158
 
 
 
4.57
 
 
 
3,679
 
 
 
191
 
 
 
5.19
 
 
 
4,748
 
 
 
264
 
 
 
5.56
 

 Asset-backed
 
 
3,402
 
 
 
84
 
 
 
2.47
 
 
 
2,240
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
3.71
 
 
 
1,963
 
 
 
145
 
 
 
7.39
 

 US Treasury and government agencies
 
 
4,308
 
 
 
114
 
 
 
2.65
 
 
 
7,549
 
 
 
211
 
 
 
2.80
 
 
 
4,477
 
 
 
137
 
 
 
3.06
 

 State and municipal
 
 
2,002
 
 
 
91
 
 
 
4.55
 
 
 
1,445
 
 
 
79
 
 
 
5.47
 
 
 
1,354
 
 
 
74
 
 
 
5.47
 

 Other debt
 
 
3,350
 
 
 
87
 
 
 
2.60
 
 
 
2,783
 
 
 
79
 
 
 
2.84
 
 
 
1,327
 
 
 
46
 
 
 
3.47
 

 Corporate stocks and other
 
 
428
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
448
 
 
 
 
 
 



 
 
398
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
.75
 

 Total securities available for sale
 
 
50,256
 
 
 
1,822
 
 
 
3.63
 
 
 
50,821
 
 
 
2,112
 
 
 
4.16
 
 
 
48,149
 
 
 
2,487
 
 
 
5.17
 

 Securities held to maturity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Residential mortgage-backed
 
 
2,424
 
 
 
83
 
 
 
3.42
 
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial mortgage-backed
 
 
4,444
 
 
 
220
 
 
 
4.95
 
 
 
3,711
 
 
 
206
 
 
 
5.55
 
 
 
1,990
 
 
 
123
 
 
 
6.18
 

 Asset-backed
 
 
1,985
 
 
 
43
 
 
 
2.17
 
 
 
3,409
 
 
 
89
 
 
 
2.61
 
 
 
2,085
 
 
 
93
 
 
 
4.46
 

 State and municipal
 
 
271
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
4.43
 
 
 
8
 
 



 



 
 
8
 
 



 




 Other
 
 
308
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
3.25
 
 
 
41
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
14.63
 
 
 
63
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
9.52
 

 Total securities held to maturity
 
 
9,432
 
 
 
368
 
 
 
3.90
 
 
 
7,169
 
 
 
301
 
 
 
4.20
 
 
 
4,146
 
 
 
222
 
 
 
5.35
 

 Total investment securities
 
 
59,688
 
 
 
2,190
 
 
 
3.67
 
 
 
57,990
 
 
 
2,413
 
 
 
4.16
 
 
 
52,295
 
 
 
2,709
 
 
 
5.18
 

 Loans
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial
 
 
59,437
 
 
 
2,924
 
 
 
4.92
 
 
 
54,339
 
 
 
2,888
 
 
 
5.31
 
 
 
61,183
 
 
 
3,288
 
 
 
5.37
 

 Commercial real estate
 
 
16,767
 
 
 
879
 
 
 
5.24
 
 
 
20,435
 
 
 
1,045
 
 
 
5.11
 
 
 
24,775
 
 
 
1,292
 
 
 
5.21
 

 Equipment lease financing
 
 
6,219
 
 
 
309
 
 
 
4.97
 
 
 
6,276
 
 
 
325
 
 
 
5.18
 
 
 
6,201
 
 
 
298
 
 
 
4.81
 

 Consumer
 
 
54,669
 
 
 
2,673
 
 
 
4.89
 
 
 
55,015
 
 
 
2,865
 
 
 
5.21
 
 
 
52,368
 
 
 
2,745
 
 
 
5.24
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
14,924
 
 
 
883
 
 
 
5.92
 
 
 
17,709
 
 
 
1,209
 
 
 
6.83
 
 
 
21,116
 
 
 
1,336
 
 
 
6.33
 

 Total loans
 
 
152,016
 
 
 
7,668
 
 
 
5.04
 
 
 
153,774
 
 
 
8,332
 
 
 
5.42
 
 
 
165,643
 
 
 
8,959
 
 
 
5.41
 

 Loans held for sale
 
 
2,768
 
 
 
193
 
 
 
6.97
 
 
 
2,871
 
 
 
263
 
 
 
9.16
 
 
 
3,976
 
 
 
270
 
 
 
6.79
 

 Federal funds sold and resale agreements
 
 
2,297
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
1.44
 
 
 
1,899
 
 
 
37
 
 
 
1.95
 
 
 
1,865
 
 
 
42
 
 
 
2.25
 

 Other
 
 
7,571
 
 
 
214
 
 
 
2.83
 
 
 
8,215
 
 
 
185
 
 
 
2.25
 
 
 
14,708
 
 
 
174
 
 
 
1.18
 

 Total interest-earning assets/interest income
 
 
224,340
 
 
 
10,298
 
 
 
4.59
 
 
 
224,749
 
 
 
11,230
 
 
 
5.00
 
 
 
238,487
 
 
 
12,154
 
 
 
5.10
 

 Noninterest-earning assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Allowance for loan and lease losses
 
 
(4,656
) 
 



 



 
 
(5,144
) 
 



 



 
 
(4,316
) 
 



 




 Cash and due from banks
 
 
3,565
 
 



 



 
 
3,569
 
 



 



 
 
3,648
 
 



 




 Other
 
 
42,086
 
 



 



 
 
41,728
 
 



 



 
 
39,057
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
$
265,335
 
 



 



 
$
264,902
 
 



 



 
$
276,876
 
 



 




 Liabilities and Equity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing deposits
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Money market
 
$
58,765
 
 
$
184
 
 
 
.31
%
 
$
58,264
 
 
$
261
 
 
 
.45
%
 
$
55,326
 
 
$
548
 
 
 
.99
% 

 Demand
 
 
27,563
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
.08
 
 
 
25,025
 
 
 
33
 
 
 
.13
 
 
 
23,477
 
 
 
67
 
 
 
.29
 

 Savings
 
 
8,185
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
.18
 
 
 
7,005
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
.19
 
 
 
6,495
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
.22
 

 Retail certificates of deposit
 
 
34,009
 
 
 
428
 
 
 
1.26
 
 
 
42,933
 
 
 
628
 
 
 
1.46
 
 
 
54,584
 
 
 
1,043
 
 
 
1.91
 

 Other time
 
 
405
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
3.21
 
 
 
813
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
2.71
 
 
 
5,009
 
 
 
60
 
 
 
1.20
 

 Time deposits in foreign offices
 
 
2,410
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
.21
 
 
 
2,785
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
.22
 
 
 
3,637
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
.25
 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
 
 
131,337
 
 
 
668
 
 
 
.51
 
 
 
136,825
 
 
 
963
 
 
 
.70
 
 
 
148,528
 
 
 
1,741
 
 
 
1.17
 

 Borrowed funds
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements
 
 
4,469
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
.16
 
 
 
4,309
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
.30
 
 
 
4,439
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
.36
 

 Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings
 
 
5,305
 
 
 
53
 
 
 
1.00
 
 
 
7,996
 
 
 
71
 
 
 
.89
 
 
 
14,177
 
 
 
200
 
 
 
1.41
 

 Bank notes and senior debt
 
 
11,202
 
 
 
252
 
 
 
2.25
 
 
 
12,790
 
 
 
320
 
 
 
2.50
 
 
 
12,981
 
 
 
443
 
 
 
3.41
 

 Subordinated debt
 
 
8,942
 
 
 
456
 
 
 
5.10
 
 
 
9,647
 
 
 
505
 
 
 
5.23
 
 
 
10,191
 
 
 
600
 
 
 
5.89
 

 Other
 
 
5,808
 
 
 
58
 
 
 
1.00
 
 
 
5,438
 
 
 
50
 
 
 
.92
 
 
 
2,345
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
1.49
 

 Total borrowed funds
 
 
35,726
 
 
 
826
 
 
 
2.31
 
 
 
40,180
 
 
 
959
 
 
 
2.39
 
 
 
44,133
 
 
 
1,294
 
 
 
2.93
 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities/interest expense
 
 
167,063
 
 
 
1,494
 
 
 
.89
 
 
 
177,005
 
 
 
1,922
 
 
 
1.09
 
 
 
192,661
 
 
 
3,035
 
 
 
1.58
 

 Noninterest-bearing liabilities and equity:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Noninterest-bearing deposits
 
 
51,707
 
 



 



 
 
45,076
 
 



 



 
 
41,416
 
 



 




 Allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit
 
 
203
 
 



 



 
 
239
 
 



 



 
 
328
 
 



 




 Accrued expenses and other liabilities
 
 
11,040
 
 



 



 
 
11,015
 
 



 



 
 
12,179
 
 



 




 Equity
 
 
35,322
 
 



 



 
 
31,567
 
 



 



 
 
30,292
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and equity
 
$
265,335
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
264,902
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
276,876
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Interest rate spread
 



 



 
 
3.70
 
 



 



 
 
3.91
 
 



 



 
 
3.52
 

 Impact of noninterest-bearing sources
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.23
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.30
 

 Net interest income/margin
 
 
 
 
 
$
8,804
 
 
 
3.92
% 
 
 
 
 
 
$
9,308
 
 
 
4.14
% 
 
 
 
 
 
$
9,119
 
 
 
3.82
% 

 
208    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Nonaccrual loans are included in loans, net of unearned income. The impact of financial derivatives used in
interest rate risk management is included in the interest income/expense and average yields/rates of the related assets and liabilities. Basis adjustments related to hedged items are included in noninterest-earning assets and noninterest-bearing
liabilities. Average balances of securities are based on amortized historical cost (excluding adjustments to fair value, which are included in other assets). Average balances for certain loans and borrowed funds accounted for at fair value, with
changes in fair value recorded in trading noninterest income, are included in noninterest-earning assets and noninterest-bearing liabilities. The interest-earning deposits with the Federal Reserve are included in the “Other”
interest-earning assets category.  Loan fees for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $175 million, $154 million, and
$162 million, respectively.  Interest income includes the effects of taxable-equivalent adjustments using a marginal federal income tax rate
of 35% to increase tax-exempt interest income to a taxable-equivalent basis. The taxable-equivalent adjustments to interest income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $104 million, $81 million, and $65 million,
respectively.  LOANS OUTSTANDING 
 
























December 31 – in millions
  
2011 (a)
 
  
2010 (a)
 
  
2009 (a)
 
  
2008 (a)
 
  
2007
 

 Commercial lending
  



  



  



  



  


 

 Commercial
  
$
65,694
 
  
$
55,177
 
  
$
54,818
 
  
$
69,220
 
  
$
28,952
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
16,204
 
  
 
17,934
 
  
 
23,131
 
  
 
25,736
 
  
 
8,903
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
6,416
 
  
 
6,393
 
  
 
6,202
 
  
 
6,461
 
  
 
2,514
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING
  
 
88,314
 
  
 
79,504
 
  
 
84,151
 
  
 
101,417
 
  
 
40,369
 

 Consumer lending
  



  



  



  



  


 

 Home equity
  
 
33,089
 
  
 
34,226
 
  
 
35,947
 
  
 
38,276
 
  
 
14,447
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
14,469
 
  
 
15,999
 
  
 
19,810
 
  
 
21,583
 
  
 
9,557
 

 Credit card
  
 
3,976
 
  
 
3,920
 
  
 
2,569
 
  
 
2,237
 
  
 
247
 

 Other consumer
  
 
19,166
 
  
 
16,946
 
  
 
15,066
 
  
 
11,976
 
  
 
3,699
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
70,700
 
  
 
71,091
 
  
 
73,392
 
  
 
74,072
 
  
 
27,950
 

 Total loans
  
$
159,014
 
  
$
150,595
 
  
$
157,543
 
  
$
175,489
 
  
$
68,319
 



(a)
Includes the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008.  NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND RELATED INFORMATION 
 
























December 31 - dollars in millions
  
2011 (a)
 
 
2010 (a)
 
 
2009 (a)
 
 
2008 (a)
 
 
2007
 

 Nonperforming loans
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Commercial
  
$
899
 
 
$
1,253
 
 
$
1,806
 
 
$
576
 
 
$
193
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
1,345
 
 
 
1,835
 
 
 
2,140
 
 
 
766
 
 
 
214
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
22
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
130
 
 
 
97
 
 
 
3
 

 TOTAL COMMERCIAL LENDING
  
 
2,266
 
 
 
3,165
 
 
 
4,076
 
 
 
1,439
 
 
 
410
 

 Consumer (b)
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Home equity
  
 
529
 
 
 
448
 
 
 
356
 
 
 
66
 
 
 
16
 

 Residential real estate (c)
  
 
726
 
 
 
818
 
 
 
1,203
 
 
 
153
 
 
 
27
 

 Credit card (d)
  
 
8
 
 



 



 



 


 

 Other consumer
  
 
31
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
1
 

 TOTAL CONSUMER LENDING
  
 
1,294
 
 
 
1,301
 
 
 
1,595
 
 
 
223
 
 
 
44
 

 Total nonperforming loans (e)
  
 
3,560
 
 
 
4,466
 
 
 
5,671
 
 
 
1,662
 
 
 
454
 

 OREO and foreclosed assets
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Other real estate owned (OREO) (f)
  
 
561
 
 
 
589
 
 
 
484
 
 
 
422
 
 
 
41
 

 Foreclosed and other assets
  
 
35
 
 
 
68
 
 
 
49
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 

 TOTAL OREO AND FORECLOSED ASSETS
  
 
596
 
 
 
657
 
 
 
533
 
 
 
438
 
 
 
41
 

 Total nonperforming assets
  
$
4,156
 
 
$
5,123
 
 
$
6,204
 
 
$
2,100
 
 
$
495
 

 Nonperforming loans to total loans
  
 
2.24
% 
 
 
2.97
% 
 
 
3.60
% 
 
 
.95
% 
 
 
.66
% 

 Nonperforming assets to total loans, OREO and foreclosed assets
  
 
2.60
 
 
 
3.39
 
 
 
3.92
 
 
 
1.19
 
 
 
.72
 

 Nonperforming assets to total assets
  
 
1.53
 
 
 
1.94
 
 
 
2.30
 
 
 
.72
 
 
 
.36
 

 Interest on nonperforming loans
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Computed on original terms
  
$
278
 
 
$
329
 
 
$
302
 
 
$
115
 
 
$
51
 

 Recognized prior to nonperforming status
  
 
47
 
 
 
53
 
 
 
90
 
 
 
60
 
 
 
32
 

 Past due loans
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Accruing loans past due 90 days or more (g)
  
$
2,973
 
 
$
2,709
 
 
$
2,698
 
 
$
1,321
 
 
$
136
 

 As a percentage of total loans
  
 
1.87
% 
 
 
1.80
% 
 
 
1.71
% 
 
 
.75
% 
 
 
.20
% 

 Past due loans held for sale
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Accruing loans held for sale past due 90 days or more (h)
  
$
49
 
 
$
65
 
 
$
72
  
 
$
40
 
 
$
8
 

 As a percentage of total loans held for sale
  
 
1.67
% 
 
 
1.86
% 
 
 
2.84
% 
 
 
.92
% 
 
 
.20
% 

  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    209 


Table of Contents


(a)
Includes the impact of National City, which we acquired on December 31, 2008. 


(b)
Excludes most consumer loans and lines of credit, not secured by residential real estate, which are charged off after 120 to 180 days past due and are not placed on
nonperforming status. 


(c)
Effective in 2011, nonperforming residential real estate excludes loans of $61 million accounted for under the fair value option as of December 31, 2011. The
comparable balances for prior periods presented were not material. 


(d)
Effective in the second quarter 2011, the commercial nonaccrual policy was applied to certain small business credit card balances. This change resulted in loans being
placed on nonaccrual status when they become 90 days or more past due. We continue to charge off these loans at 180 days past due. 


(e)
Includes TDRs of $1,141 million at December 31, 2011, $784 million at December 31, 2010, $440 million at December 31, 2009 and $2 million at
December 31, 2007. Nonperforming loans do not include government insured or guaranteed loans, loans held for sale, loans accounted for under the fair value option and purchased impaired loans. 


(f)
Other real estate owned excludes $280 million, $178 million, $112 million, $81 million and zero at December 31, 2011, December 31,
2010, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, related to residential real estate that was acquired by us upon foreclosure of serviced loans because they are insured by the Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). 


(g)
Amounts include government insured or guaranteed consumer loans totaling $2,474 million, $2,167 million, $1,814 million, $926 million and $8 million at
December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Past due loan amounts exclude purchased impaired loans as they are considered current loans due
to the accretion of interest income. 


(h)
Amounts include government insured or guaranteed consumer loans held for sale totaling $15 million, $22 million, and $27 million at December 31,
2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively. Government insured or guaranteed consumer loans held for sale were zero for the other periods presented. 
SUMMARY OF LOAN LOSS EXPERIENCE 
 
























Year ended December 31 - dollars in millions
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses – January 1
  
$
4,887
 
 
$
5,072
 
 
$
3,917
 
 
$
830
 
 
$
560
 

 Charge-offs
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Commercial
  
 
(700
) 
 
 
(1,227
) 
 
 
(1,276
) 
 
 
(301
) 
 
 
(156
) 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
(464
) 
 
 
(670
) 
 
 
(510
) 
 
 
(165
) 
 
 
(16
) 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
(35
) 
 
 
(120
) 
 
 
(149
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 


 

 Consumer (a)
  
 
(912
) 
 
 
(1,069
) 
 
 
(961
) 
 
 
(143
) 
 
 
(73
) 

 Residential real estate
  
 
(153
) 
 
 
(406
) 
 
 
(259
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
 
 

 Total charge-offs
  
 
(2,264
) 
 
 
(3,492
) 
 
 
(3,155
) 
 
 
(618
) 
 
 
(245
) 

 Recoveries
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Commercial
  
 
332
 
 
 
294
 
 
 
181
 
 
 
53
 
 
 
30
 

 Commercial real estate
  
 
105
 
 
 
77
 
 
 
38
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
1
 

 Equipment lease financing
  
 
50
 
 
 
56
 
 
 
27
 
 
 
1
 
 


 

 Consumer (a)
  
 
127
 
 
 
110
 
 
 
105
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
14
 

 Residential real estate
  
 
11
 
 
 
19
 
 
 
93
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Total recoveries
  
 
625
 
 
 
556
 
 
 
444
 
 
 
79
 
 
 
45
 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
(1,639
) 
 
 
(2,936
) 
 
 
(2,711
) 
 
 
(539
) 
 
 
(200
) 

 Provision for credit losses (b)
  
 
1,152
 
 
 
2,502
 
 
 
3,930
 
 
 
1,517
 
 
 
315
 

 Acquired allowance – National City
  



 



 
 
(112
) 
 
 
2,224
 
 


 

 Other
  
 
(1
) 
 



 



 
 
20
 
 
 
152
 

 Adoption of ASU 2009-17, Consolidations
  



 
 
141
 
 



 



 


 

 Net change in allowance for unfunded loan commitments and letters of
credit
  
 
(52
) 
 
 
108
 
 
 
48
 
 
 
(135
) 
 
 
3
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses – December 31
  
$
4,347
 
 
$
4,887
 
 
$
5,072
 
 
$
3,917
 
 
$
830
 

 Allowance as a percent of December 31:
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Loans
  
 
2.73
% 
 
 
3.25
% 
 
 
3.22
% 
 
 
2.23
% 
 
 
1.21
% 

 Nonperforming loans
  
 
122
 
 
 
109
 
 
 
89
 
 
 
236
 
 
 
183
 

 As a percent of average loans
  



 



 



 



 


 

 Net charge-offs
  
 
1.08
 
 
 
1.91
 
 
 
1.64
 
 
 
.74
 
 
 
.32
 

 Provision for credit losses
  
 
.76
 
 
 
1.63
 
 
 
2.37
 
 
 
2.09
 
 
 
.50
 

 Allowance for loan and lease losses
  
 
2.86
 
 
 
3.18
 
 
 
3.06
 
 
 
5.38
 
 
 
1.33
 

 Allowance as a multiple of net charge-offs
  
 
2.65x
  
 
 
1.66x
  
 
 
1.87x
  
 
 
7.27x
  
 
 
4.15x
  



(a)
Includes home equity, credit card and other consumer. 


(b)
Amount for 2008 included a $504 million conforming provision for credit losses related to National City. 
 
210    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
The following table presents the assignment of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the categories of
loans as a percentage of total loans. Changes in the allocation over time reflect the changes in loan portfolio composition, risk profile and refinements to reserve methodologies. For purposes of this presentation, a portion of the allowance for
loan and lease losses has been assigned to loan categories based on the relative specific and pool allocation amounts to provide coverage for probable losses not covered in specific, pool and consumer reserve methodologies related to qualitative and
measurement factors. At December 31, 2011, the portion of the reserves for these factors was $16 million.  ALLOCATION
OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES   












































 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 December 31 Dollars in millions
 
Allowance
 
 
Loans toTotal Loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Loans toTotal Loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Loans toTotal Loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Loans toTotal Loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
Loans toTotal Loans
 

 Commercial
 
$
1,180
 
 
 
41.3
% 
 
$
1,387
 
 
 
36.7
% 
 
$
1,869
 
 
 
34.8
% 
 
$
1,668
 
 
 
39.4
% 
 
$
564
 
 
 
42.4
% 

 Commercial real estate
 
 
753
 
 
 
10.2
 
 
 
1,086
 
 
 
11.9
 
 
 
1,305
 
 
 
14.7
 
 
 
833
 
 
 
14.7
 
 
 
153
 
 
 
13.0
 

 Equipment lease financing
 
 
62
 
 
 
4.0
 
 
 
94
 
 
 
4.2
 
 
 
171
 
 
 
3.9
 
 
 
179
 
 
 
3.7
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
3.7
 

 Consumer (a)
 
 
1,458
 
 
 
35.4
 
 
 
1,227
 
 
 
36.6
 
 
 
957
 
 
 
34.0
 
 
 
929
 
 
 
29.9
 
 
 
68
 
 
 
26.9
 

 Residential real estate
 
 
894
 
 
 
9.1
 
 
 
1,093
 
 
 
10.6
 
 
 
770
 
 
 
12.6
 
 
 
308
 
 
 
12.3
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
14.0
 

 Total
 
$
4,347
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
4,887
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
5,072
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,917
 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
830
 
 
 
100.0
% 
  


(a)
Includes home equity, credit card and other consumer. 
 

SELECTED LOAN MATURITIES AND
INTEREST SENSITIVITY   




















 December 31, 2011 In millions
  
1 Yearor Less
 
  
1 Through5 Years
 
  
After 5Years
 
  
GrossLoans
 

 Commercial
  
$
20,508
 
  
$
37,031
 
  
$
8,155
 
  
$
65,694
 

 Commercial real estate - Real estate projects
  
 
6,014
 
  
 
4,442
 
  
 
184
 
  
 
10,640
 

 Total
  
$
26,522
 
  
$
41,473
 
  
$
8,339
 
  
$
76,334
 

 Loans with:
  



  



  



  


 

 Predetermined rate
  
$
5,546
 
  
$
9,585
 
  
$
2,635
 
  
$
17,766
 

 Floating or adjustable rate
  
 
20,976
 
  
 
31,888
 
  
 
5,704
 
  
 
58,568
 

 Total
  
$
26,522
 
  
$
41,473
 
  
$
8,339
 
  
$
76,334
 
 At December 31, 2011, we had no pay-fixed interest rate swaps designated to commercial loans as part of fair value
hedge strategies. At December 31, 2011, $13.9 billion notional amount of receive-fixed interest rate swaps were designated as part of cash flow hedging strategies that converted the floating rate (1 month and 3 month LIBOR) on the underlying
commercial loans to a fixed rate as part of risk management strategies.  TIME DEPOSITS OF
$100,000 OR MORE  Time deposits in foreign offices totaled $1.8 billion at December 31, 2011,
substantially all of which were in denominations of $100,000 or more.

The following table sets forth maturities of domestic time deposits of $100,000 or more: 
 








December 31, 2011 – in millions
  
DomesticCertificatesof Deposit
 

 Three months or less
  
$
3,534
 

 Over three through six months
  
 
1,908
 

 Over six through twelve months
  
 
1,835
 

 Over twelve months
  
 
2,093
 

 Total
  
$
9,370
 
 COMMON STOCK PRICES/DIVIDENDS DECLARED
 The table below sets forth by quarter the range of high and low sale and quarter-end closing prices for The PNC Financial Services Group,
Inc. common stock and the cash dividends declared per common share.   




















  
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Close
 
  
CashDividendsDeclared
 

 2011 Quarter
   
  



  


 

 First
  
$
65.19
 
  
$
59.67
 
  
$
62.99
 
  
$
.10
 

 Second
  
 
64.37
 
  
 
55.56
 
  
 
59.61
 
  
 
.35
 

 Third
  
 
61.21
 
  
 
42.70
 
  
 
48.19
 
  
 
.35
 

 Fourth
  
 
58.70
 
  
 
44.74
 
  
 
57.67
 
  
 
.35
 

 Total
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
1.15
 

 2010 Quarter
  



  



  



  


 

 First
  
$
61.80
 
  
$
50.46
 
  
$
59.70
 
  
$
.10
 

 Second
  
 
70.45
 
  
 
56.30
 
  
 
56.50
 
  
 
.10
 

 Third
  
 
62.99
 
  
 
49.43
 
  
 
51.91
 
  
 
.10
 

 Fourth
  
 
61.79
 
  
 
50.69
 
  
 
60.72
 
  
 
.10
 

 Total
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
$
.40
 
  
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    211 


Table of Contents
 
ITEM 9 – CHANGES IN
AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
 


(a)
None.   


(b)
None. 
ITEM 9A – CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
 


(a)
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  The management of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and subsidiaries (PNC) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined
in the Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f).  Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.  We performed an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of PNC’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. This assessment
was based on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment,
management concluded that PNC maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements as of
and for the year ended December 31, 2011 included in this Report, has also audited the effectiveness of PNC’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. The report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is included
under Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


(b)
Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
As of December 31, 2011, we performed an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including
the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Vice President and


Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures and of changes in our internal control over financial reporting. 
Based on that evaluation, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) were effective as of December 31, 2011, and that there has been no change in PNC’s internal
control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
ITEM 9B – OTHER INFORMATION 
None.  PART III
 ITEM 10 – DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  Certain of the information regarding our
directors (or nominees for director), executive officers and Audit Committee (and Audit Committee financial experts), required by this item is included under the captions “Election of Directors (Item 1),” and “Corporate Governance
– Board committees – Audit Committee,” and “Director and Executive Officer Relationships – Family relationships” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated
herein by reference.  Information regarding our compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is included under
the caption “Director and Executive Officer Relationships – Section 16(a) beneficial ownership reporting compliance” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.  Additional information regarding our executive officers and our directors is included in Part I of this Report under the captions
“Executive Officers of the Registrant” and “Directors of the Registrant.”  Certain information regarding our PNC Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics required by this item is included under the caption “Corporate Governance – Our code of ethics” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference. Our PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our corporate website at www.pnc.com/corporategovernance. In addition, any future amendments to, or waivers from, a provision of the PNC Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
 
 
212    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


that applies to our directors or executive officers (including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Controller) will be posted at this internet address.
 ITEM 11 – EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
The information required by this item is included under the captions “Corporate Governance – Board committees – Personnel and
Compensation Committee – Compensation committee interlocks and insider participation,” “Director Compensation,” “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee Report,” “Compensation
and Risk,” and “Compensation Tables” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. In accordance with Item 407(e) (5) of Regulation S-K, the
information set forth under the caption “Compensation Committee Report” in such Proxy Statement will be deemed to be furnished in this Report and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act
or the Exchange Act as a result of furnishing the disclosure in this manner.

ITEM 12 – SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS  The information required by this item regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is
included under the caption “Security Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 
Information regarding our compensation plans under which PNC equity securities are authorized for issuance as of December 31, 2011 is included in
the table which follows. Also included in the notes to the table is information regarding awards or portions of awards under our 2006 Incentive Award Plan that, by their terms, are payable only in cash. Additional information regarding these plans
is included in Note 15 Stock-Based Compensation Plans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report.
 
  Equity Compensation Plan
Information  At December 31, 2011   
















  
  
(a)
 
  
(b)
 
  
(c)
 

  
  
Number of securitiesto be issued uponexercise ofoutstanding options,warrants and
rights
 
  
Weighted-averageexercise priceof outstandingoptions, warrantsand rights
 
  
Number of securitiesremaining availablefor future
issuanceunder equitycompensation plans(excluding securitiesreflected in column (a))
 

 Equity compensation plans approved by security
holders
  



  



  


 

 1997 Long-Term Incentive Award Plan (Note 1)
  



  



  
 
1,945,317
 

 Stock Options
  
 
5,653,196
 
  
$
60.08
  
  


 

 2006 Incentive Award Plan (Note 2 and Note 3)
  



  



  


 

 Stock Options
  
 
11,770,825
 
  
$
51.69
  
  
 
31,830,226
 

 Incentive Performance Unit Awards (Note 4)
  
 
394,048
 
  
 
N/A
  
  


 

 Stock-Payable Restricted Stock Units (Note 5)
  
 
561,147
 
  
 
N/A
  
  


 

 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan
  



  



  


 

 Incentive Awards
  



  
 
N/A
  
  
 
(Note 6
) 

 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Note
7)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
1,528,879
 

 Total approved by security
holders
  
 
18,379,216
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
35,304,422
 

 Equity compensation plans not
approved by security holders (Note 8)
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Former National City Corporation Equity-Based Compensation Plans,
including stock options
  
 
1,818,244
 
  
$
684.40
  
  


 

 Former Sterling Financial Corporation
Stock Option Plan
  
 
65,760
 
  
$
71.81
  
  
 
 
 

 Total not approved by security
holders
  
 
1,884,004
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 Total
  
 
20,263,220
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
35,304,422
 
 N/A – not applicable 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    213 


Table of Contents
 
Note 1 – After shareholder approval of the 2006 Incentive Award Plan at the 2006 annual meeting of
PNC’s shareholders on April 25, 2006 (see Note 2 below), no further grants were permitted under the 1997 Long-Term Incentive Award Plan, other than for the exercise of options still subject to a reload feature. As of December 31,
2011, the number of remaining shares reserved under this plan for that purpose was 1,945,317.  Note 2 – The 2006 Incentive Award Plan was
adopted by the Board on February 15, 2006 and approved by the PNC shareholders at the 2006 annual meeting on April 25, 2006. The plan initially authorized up to 40,000,000 shares of common stock for issuance under the plan, subject to
adjustment in certain circumstances. If and to the extent that stock options and stock appreciation rights (“SARs”) granted under the plan, or granted under the prior plan and outstanding on the approval date of the plan, terminate, expire
or are cancelled, forfeited, exchanged or surrendered after the effective date of the plan without being exercised or if any share awards, share units, dividend equivalents or other share-based awards are forfeited or terminated, or otherwise not
paid in full, after the effective date of the plan, the shares subject to such grants become available again for purposes of the plan. Shares available for issuance under this plan are also reduced by the number of any shares used in payment of
bonuses under the 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan.  The plan was most recently amended and restated incorporating amendments adopted by
the Board and approved by PNC’s shareholders at the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders, effective as of March 11, 2011. These amendments incorporate, among other things, an increase to the overall limit on the number of shares that may be
awarded under the plan to 46,000,000, and a new requirement that each award of a share (other than pursuant to a stock option or SAR) granted after that effective date will reduce the aggregate plan limit by 2.5 shares, while each award of a share
pursuant to a stock option or SAR will reduce the aggregate plan limit by one share.  Note 3 – Under the 2006 Incentive Award Plan,
awards or portions of awards that, by their terms, are payable only in cash do not reduce the number of shares that remain available for issuance under the plan (the number in column (c)). During 2011, a total of 560,544 cash-payable share units
plus cash-payable dividend equivalents with respect to 505,866 of those share units were granted under the plan. This number includes an incremental change in the cash-payable portion of the 2010 and 2011 incentive performance unit award grants
described in Note 4 below (net of forfeitures), a separate 2011 incentive performance unit award grant payable solely in cash, and 2011 grants of share units (some of which include rights to cash dividend equivalents) payable solely in cash.
Payments are subject to the conditions of the individual grants,


including, where applicable, the achievement of any performance goals or service requirement established for such grants. The comparable amount for 2009 was 1,030,824 cash-payable share units
plus cash-payable dividend equivalents with respect to 379,979 cash-payable restricted share units, and the comparable amount for 2010 was 367,365 cash-payable share units plus cash-payable dividend equivalents with respect to 211,573 cash-payable
restricted share units.  Note 4 – These incentive performance unit awards provide for the issuance of shares of common stock (up to a
target number of shares) based on the degree to which corporate performance goals established by the Personnel and Compensation Committee have been achieved, subject to potential negative adjustment based on certain risk-related performance metrics,
and, if a premium level of such performance is achieved, for further payment in cash. The numbers in column (a) of this table for these awards reflect the maximum number of shares that could be issued pursuant to grants outstanding at
December 31, 2011 upon achievement of the performance goals and other conditions of the grants. At the premium level of performance, a further maximum payout of cash equivalents for the same number of share units, plus the incremental change
described in Note 3, could also be payable subject to the other conditions of the grants. Grants under the 2006 Incentive Award Plan were made in the first quarter of 2008, 2010, and 2011.  Note 5 – These stock-payable restricted stock units include 2011 grants of performance-based restricted share units (with the units payable solely in stock and related dividend equivalents payable
solely in cash) that have a service condition, an internal risk-related performance condition and a market condition. The number in column (a) includes the maximum number of shares that could be issued pursuant to grants of this type of award
outstanding at December 31, 2011 upon achievement of the performance and market conditions and other conditions of the grants. Cash-payable dividend equivalents were granted with respect to all of these stock-payable restricted stock units.
 Note 6 – The 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan is a shareholder-approved plan that enables PNC to pay annual bonuses to its senior
executive officers based upon the achievement of specified levels of performance. The plan as amended and restated as of January 1, 2007 was adopted by the Board on February 14, 2007 and approved by the PNC shareholders at the 2007 annual
meeting on April 24, 2007. The plan does not specify a fixed share amount for awards under the plan. Rather, it provides for maximum bonus awards for a given period (generally a year) for each individual plan participant of 0.2% of incentive
income for that period. Incentive income is based on PNC’s consolidated pre-tax net income as further adjusted for the impact of changes in
 
 
214    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents


tax law, extraordinary items, discontinued operations, acquisition and merger integration costs, and for the impact of PNC’s obligation to fund certain BlackRock long-term incentive
programs. Although the size of awards under the plan is dollar-denominated, payment may be made in cash, in stock, or in a combination of cash and stock.  Note 7 – The purchase price for shares sold under the plan represents 95% of the fair market value on the last day of each six-month offering period. 
Note 8 – The plans in this section of the table reflect awards under pre-acquisition plans of National City Corporation and Sterling Financial
Corporation, respectively. National City was merged into PNC on December 31, 2008 and Sterling was merged into PNC on April 4, 2008. Pursuant to the respective merger agreements for these acquisitions, common shares of National City or
Sterling, as the case may be, issuable upon the exercise or settlement of various equity awards granted under the National City or Sterling plans were converted into corresponding awards covering PNC common stock. Additional information is included
in Note 15 Stock-Based Compensation Plans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report and in Note 16 Stock-Based Compensation Plans in the Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of our 2008
10-K.  ITEM 13 – CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  The information
required by this item is included under the captions “Director and Executive Officer Relationships – Director independence, – Transactions with directors, – Indemnification and advancement of costs, and – Related


person transactions policies and procedures” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 
ITEM 14 – PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES
AND SERVICES  The information required by this item is included under the caption “Ratification of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (Item 2) – Audit and non-audit fees” in our Proxy Statement to be filed for the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference. 
PART IV  
ITEM 15 – EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  Our consolidated financial statements required in response to this Item are incorporated by reference from Item 8 of this Report.  Audited consolidated financial statements of BlackRock, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 are filed with this Report as
Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.  EXHIBITS  Our exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index on pages E-1 through E-8 of this Form 10-K are filed with this Report or are incorporated herein by reference.
 
  The PNC
Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    215 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.  (Registrant)   






   By:
 
    /s/ Richard J. Johnson


 
Richard J. Johnson


 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 
February 29, 2012
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and in the capacities indicated on February 29, 2012.   






 Signature
    
 Capacities




 /s/ James E. Rohr James E. Rohr
    
 Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)




 /s/ Richard J. Johnson Richard J. Johnson
    
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)




 /s/ Gregory H. Kozich Gregory H. Kozich
    
 Senior Vice President and Controller(Principal Accounting Officer)




* Richard O. Berndt; Charles E. Bunch; Paul W. Chellgren; Kay Coles James; Richard B. Kelson; Bruce C. Lindsay; Anthony A. Massaro; Jane G. Pepper; Donald J. Shepard; Lorene K.
Steffes; Dennis F. Strigl; Thomas J. Usher; George H. Walls, Jr.; and Helge H. Wehmeier
    
 Directors
  






 *By:
  
/s/ George P. Long, III


  
 George P. Long, III, Attorney-in-Fact, pursuant to Powers of Attorney filed herewith

 
216    The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents
Exhibit Index 
 








 Exhibit No.
  
Description
  
Method of Filing +





2.1
  
 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 19, 2011, among the corporation, RBC USA Holdco Corporation and Royal Bank of Canada
(the schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K)
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 20,
2011





3.1
  
 Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended effective as of January 2, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2008 (2008 Form 10-K)





3.2
  
 Statement with Respect to Shares of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series O dated July 21,
2011
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 27,
2011





3.3
  
 By-Laws of the Corporation, as amended and restated effective as of February 12, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 19,
2009





4.1
  
 There are no instruments with respect to long-term debt of the Corporation and its subsidiaries that involve securities percent
of the total assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. The Corporation agrees to provide the SEC with a copy of instruments defining the rights of holders of long- term debt of the Corporation and its subsidiaries on
request.
  






4.2
  
 Terms of $1.80 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series B
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.3
  
 Terms of 7.00% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.4
  
 Terms of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.5
  
 Terms of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.6
  
 Terms of Fixed-to-Floating Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series K
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.7
  
 Terms of 9.875% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.8
  
 Terms of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series M
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K





4.9
  
 Terms of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series O
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 27,
2011





4.10
  
 Warrants for Purchase of Shares of PNC Common Stock
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 (included as part of Exhibit 4.1) of the Corporation’s Form 8-A filed April
30, 2010





4.11
  
 Deposit Agreement dated May 21, 2008, between the Corporation, PNC Bank, National Association, and the holders from time to time
of the Depositary Receipts described therein
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 27,
2008
  PNC Financial
Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    E-1 


Table of Contents












4.12
  
 Deposit Agreement dated January 30, 2008 by and among National City Corporation, Wilmington Trust Company, National City
Bank as Transfer Agent and Registrar, and all holders from time to time of Receipts issued pursuant thereto
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 8-A filed by National City Corporation on January 30,
2008





4.13
  
 Letter Agreement dated as of December 31, 2008 between the Corporation and Wilmington Trust Company
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Corporation’s Form 8-A filed December 31, 2008





4.14
  
 Deposit Agreement dated July 27, 2011, between the Corporation, Computershare Trust Company, N.A., Computershare Inc. and the
holders from time to time of the Depositary Receipts described therein
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed July 27,
2011





4.15
  
 Stock Purchase Contract between National City Corporation and National City Preferred Capital Trust I acting through the Bank of
New York Trust Company, N.A. as Property Trustee, dated January 30, 2008
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.7 of the Form 8-A filed by National City Corporation (Commission File No.
001-10074) on January 30, 2008





4.16
  
 Form of PNC Bank, National Association Global Bank Note for Fixed Rate Global Senior Bank Note with Maturity of more than Nine
Months from Date of Issuance
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.9 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2004 (3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q)





4.17
  
 Form of PNC Bank, National Association Global Bank Note for Floating Rate Global Senior Bank Note with Maturity of more Nine
Months from Date of Issuance
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.10 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q





4.18
  
 Form of PNC Bank, National Association Global Bank Note for Fixed Rate Global Subordinated Bank Note with Maturity of more than
Nine Months from Date of Issuance
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.11 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q





4.19
  
 Form of PNC Bank, National Association Global Bank Note for Floating Rate Global Subordinated Bank Note with Maturity of more
Nine Months from Date of Issuance
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.12 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q





4.20
  
 Exchange Agreement, dated as of March 29, 2007, by and among the Corporation, PNC Bank, National Association, and PNC Preferred
Funding Trust II
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.16 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed March 30,
2007





4.21
  
 First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2008, between the Corporation and The Bank of New York
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 13,
2008





4.22
  
 Exchange Agreement, dated as of February 19, 2008, by and among the Corporation, PNC Bank, National Association, and PNC
Preferred Funding Trust III
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 19,
2008





10.1
  
 The Corporation’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2004 (2nd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q)*





10.2
  
 The Corporation’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K*





10.3
  
 Amendment 2009-1 to the Corporation’s Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as amended and restated as of January 1,
2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2009 (2009 Form 10-K)*





10.4
  
 The Corporation’s ERISA Excess Pension Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Corporation’s 2nd Quarter 2004
Form 10-Q*
 
E-2    PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents












10.5
  
 Amendment to the Corporation’s ERISA Excess Pension Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2010 (2010 Form 10-K)*





10.6
  
 The Corporation’s ERISA Excess Pension Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K*





10.7
  
 Amendment 2009-1 to the Corporation’s ERISA Excess Plan as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Corporation’s 2009 Form 10-K*





10.8
  
 Amendment 2011-1 to the Corporation’s ERISA Excess Pension Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2009
  
 Filed herewith*





10.9
  
 The Corporation’s Key Executive Equity Program, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Corporation’s 2nd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.10
  
 The Corporation’s Key Executive Equity Program, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K*





10.11
  
 Amendment 2009-1 to the Corporation’s Key Executive Equity Program as amended and restated as of January 1,
2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Corporation’s 2009 Form 10-K*





10.12
  
 The Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Corporation’s 2nd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.13
  
 The Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed by the Corporation on January 22,
2009*





10.14
  
 The Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended and restated May 5, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2009 (2nd Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q)*





10.15
  
 Amendment 2009-1 to the Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended and restated May 5,
2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Corporation’s 2009 Form 10-K*





10.16
  
 Second Amendment to the Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended and restated May 5,
2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of the Corporation’s 2010 Form 10-K*





10.17
  
 The Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan, as amended and Restated effective January 1, 2010
  
 Filed herewith*





10.18
  
 The Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Corporation’s 2nd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.19
  
 The Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.5 of the Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed by the Corporation on January 22,
2009*





10.20
  
 The Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated May 5, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.62 to the Corporation’s 2nd Quarter 2009 Form 10-Q*





10.21
  
 Amendment 2009-1 to the Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated May 5,
2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to the Corporation’s 2009 Form 10-K*





10.22
  
 Amendment 2010-1 to the Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated May 5,
2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 of the Corporation’s 2010 Form 10-K*





10.23
  
 Amendment 2011-1 to the Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated May 5,
2009
  
 Filed herewith*
  PNC Financial
Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    E-3 


Table of Contents












10.24
  
 AJCA transition amendments to the Corporation’s Supplemental Incentive Savings Plan and the Corporation and Affiliates
Deferred Compensation Plan
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2005 (2005 Form 10-K)*





10.25
  
 Further AJCA transition amendments to the Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation Plan
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K*





10.26
  
 The Corporation and Affiliates Deferred Compensation and Incentive Plan, effective as of January 1, 2012
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Corporation’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 No.333-177896 filed
November 10, 2011*





10.27
  
 The Corporation’s 2006 Incentive Award Plan, as amended and restated effective as of March 11, 2011
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.70 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 1O-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2011 (1st Quarter 2011 Form 10-Q)*





10.28
  
 Addendum to the Corporation’s 2006 Incentive Award Plan, effective as of January 26, 2012
  
 Filed herewith*





10.29
  
 The Corporation’s 1997 Long-Term Incentive Award Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Corporation’s 2nd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.30
  
 The Corporation’s 1996 Executive Incentive Award Plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1,
2007
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2007 (2007 Form 10-K)*





10.31
  
 The Corporation’s Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2004 (1st Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q)*





10.32
  
 The Corporation’s Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2012
  
 Filed herewith*





10.33
  
 The Corporation’s Outside Directors Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended and restated
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Corporation’s 1st Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.34
  
 The Corporation’s Outside Directors Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2012
  
 Filed herewith*





10.35
  
 Amended and Restated Trust Agreement between PNC Investment Corp., as settlor, and Hershey Trust Company, as
trustee
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2005 (3rd Quarter 2005 Form 10-Q)*





10.36
  
 Trust Agreement between PNC Investment Corp., as settlor, and PNC Bank, National Association, as trustee
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2005 Form 10-Q*





10.37
  
 Certificate of Corporate Action for Grantor Trusts effective January 1, 2012
  
 Filed herewith*





10.38
  
 The Corporation’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated as of January 1, 2009
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed by the Corporation on December
31, 2008





10.39
  
 Amendment 2011-1 to the Corporation’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2009
  
 Filed herewith
 
E-4    PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents












10.40
  
 Forms of employee stock option, restricted stock, restricted deferral, and incentive share agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.41
  
 2005 forms of employee stock option, restricted stock and restricted deferral agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.28 of the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2004 (2004 Form 10-K)*





10.42
  
 2006 forms of employee stock option, restricted stock and restricted deferral agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of the Corporation’s 2005 Form 10-K*





10.43
  
 Forms of employee stock option and restricted stock agreements under 2006 Incentive Award Plan
  
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2006*





10.44
  
 2006 forms of employee incentive performance unit and senior officer change in control severance agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 of the Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2006 as filed on March 1, 2007 (2006 Form 10-K)*





10.45
  
 2007 forms of employee stock option and restricted stock agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 of the Corporation’s 2006 Form 10-K*





10.46
  
 2006-2007 forms of employee incentive performance units agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.51 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2007 (2nd Quarter 2007 Form 10-Q)*





10.47
  
 2008 forms of employee stock option and restricted stock/share unit agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.26 of the Corporation’s 2007 Form 10-K*





10.48
  
 2008 forms of employee performance units agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K*





10.49
  
 Form of employee stock option agreement with varied vesting schedule or circumstances
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.50 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 18,
2008*





10.50
  
 Form of employee restricted stock agreement with varied vesting schedule or circumstances
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.51 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 18,
2008*





10.51
  
 Form of employee stock option agreement with performance vesting schedule
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.54 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2008*





10.52
  
 2009 forms of employee stock option, restricted stock, restricted share unit and performance unit agreements
  
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
31, 2009*





10.53
  
 Form of agreement regarding portion of salary payable in stock units
  
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.63 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 21,
2009*





10.54
  
 Form of agreement for long-term restricted stock
  
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.64 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 23,
2009*





10.55
  
 Form of agreement for long-term stock
  
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.65 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 23,
2009*





10.56
  
 2010 forms of employee stock option, restricted stock, and restricted share unit agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.48 to the Corporation’s 2009 Form
10-K*
  PNC Financial
Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    E-5 


Table of Contents












10.57
  
 2010 forms of employee performance units agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.75 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2010*





10.58
  
 2011 forms of employee stock option, restricted stock, restricted share unit and performance unit agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.71 of the Corporation’s 1st Quarter 2011 Form 10-Q*





10.59
  
 Forms of director stock option and restricted stock agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.32 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q*





10.60
  
 2005 form of director stock option agreement
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2005*





10.61
  
 Form of time sharing agreements between the Corporation and certain executives
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Corporation’s 2008 Form 10-K*





10.62
  
 Form of change of control employment agreements
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.72 of the Corporation’s 1st Quarter 2011 Form 10-Q*





10.63
  
 The National City Corporation 2004 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2005
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to National City Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended March 31, 2006





10.64
  
 Amendment to The National City Corporation 2004 Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1,
2005
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.56 of the Corporation’s 2010 Form 10-K





10.65
  
 BlackRock, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Retention and Incentive Plan
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc. (Commission File No. 001-15305)
(referred to herein as Old BlackRock) for the quarter ended September 30, 2002 (Old BlackRock 3rd Quarter 2002 Form 10-Q)





10.66
  
 First Amendment to the BlackRock, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Retention and Incentive Plan
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Old BlackRock (Commission File No. 001-15305) for the
quarter ended March 31, 2004





10.67
  
 Second Amendment to the BlackRock, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Retention and Incentive Plan
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Old BlackRock (Commission File No. 001-15305) for the year
ended December 31, 2004





10.68
  
 Share Surrender Agreement, dated October 10, 2002, among Old BlackRock, PNC Asset Management, Inc., and the
Corporation
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to the Old BlackRock 3rd Quarter 2002 Form 10-Q





10.69
  
 First Amendment, dated as of February 15, 2006, to the Share Surrender Agreement among Old BlackRock, PNC Bancorp, Inc. and the
Corporation
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Old BlackRock (Commission File No. 001-15305) filed
February 22, 2006 (Old BlackRock February 22, 2006 Form 8-K)
 
E-6    PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 


Table of Contents












10.70
  
 Second Amendment to Share Surrender Agreement made and entered into as of June 11, 2007 by and between the Corporation,
BlackRock, Inc., and PNC Bancorp, Inc.
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.50 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 14,
2007





10.71
  
 Third Amendment to Share Surrender Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, between the Corporation and BlackRock,
Inc.
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of BlackRock, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 27,
2009





10.72
  
 Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement, dated as of February 27, 2009, between the Corporation and
BlackRock, Inc.
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of BlackRock, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 27,
2009





10.73
  
 Amendment No. 1, dated as of June 11, 2009, to the Amended and Restated Implementation and Stockholder Agreement between the
Corporation and BlackRock, Inc.
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of BlackRock, Inc.’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 17,
2009





10.74
  
 PNC Bank, National Association US $20,000,000,000 Global Bank Note Program for the Issue of Senior and Subordinated Bank Notes
with Maturities of more than Nine Months from Date of Issue Distribution Agreement dated July 30, 2004
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 of the Corporation’s 3rd Quarter 2004 Form 10-Q





10.75
  
 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 19, 2011, among the corporation, RBC USA Holdco Corporation and Royal Bank of Canada
(the schedules and exhibits have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K)
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 20,
2011





10.76
  
 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of February 1, 2010, by and between the Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon
Corporation
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed February 3,
2010





12.1
  
 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
  
 Filed herewith





12.2
  
 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Dividends
  
 Filed herewith





21
  
 Schedule of Certain Subsidiaries of the Corporation
  
 Filed herewith





23.1
  
 Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the Corporation’s Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 Filed herewith





23.2
  
 Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm of BlackRock, Inc.
  
 Filed herewith





24
  
 Powers of Attorney
  
 Filed herewith





31.1
  
 Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
 Filed herewith





31.2
  
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
 Filed herewith





32.1
  
 Certification of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
  
 Filed herewith





32.2
  
 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350
  
 Filed herewith





99.1
  
 Form of Order of the Securities and Exchange Commission Instituting Public Administrative Procedures Pursuant to Section 8A of
the Securities Act of 1933 and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings and Imposing Cease- and-Desist Order
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated and filed July 18,
2002





99.2
  
 Audited consolidated financial statements of BlackRock, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for each of the three
years ended December 31, 2011
  
 Filed herewith
  PNC Financial
Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K    E-7 


Table of Contents












99.3
  
 Consent order between The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 14,
2011





99.4
  
 Consent order between PNC Bank, National Association and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
  
 Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of the Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed April 14,
2011





101
  
 Interactive Data File (XBRL)
  
 Filed herewith



+
Incorporated document references to filings by the Corporation are to SEC File No. 001-09718, to filings by National City Corporation are to SEC File
No. 001-10074, to filings by BlackRock through its second quarter 2006 Form 10-Q (referred to herein as Old BlackRock) are to BlackRock Holdco 2, Inc. SEC File No. 001-15305, and to filings by BlackRock, Inc. are to SEC File
No. 001-33099. 


*
Denotes management contract or compensatory plan.  You can obtain copies of these Exhibits electronically at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov or by mail from the Public Reference  Section of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 at prescribed rates. The Exhibits are also available as part of this  Form 10-K on PNC’s corporate website at www.pnc.com/secfilings. Shareholders and bondholders may also obtain copies of Exhibits without charge by contacting Shareholder Relations at
(800) 843-2206 or via e-mail at investor.relations@pnc.com. The Interactive Data File (XBRL) exhibit is only available electronically. 
 
E-8    PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – Form 10-K 



