
10-K
1
a11-31242_110k.htm
10-K






 

 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D. C. 20549
 
FORM 10–K
 




x 

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO   SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   

 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
or
 




o 

Transition Report Pursuant to   Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934   

 
For the transition period from                    to                    
 
Commission File Number 1-8472
 
Hexcel Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 




Delaware 

  

94-1109521  


(State of Incorporation) 

  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)   

 
281 Tresser Boulevard Stamford, Connecticut 06901
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (203) 969-0666
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 




Title of each class 

  

Name of each exchange on which registered  


COMMON STOCK 

  

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE   

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes o No x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 



Large accelerated filer x 

  

Accelerated filer o  


  

  

   


Non-accelerated filer o 

  

Smaller reporting company o  


(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

  

    
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes o No x
 
The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates was $2,109,541,949 based on the reported last sale price of common stock on June 30, 2011, which is the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
 
The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.
 




Class 

  

Outstanding as of February 2, 2012  


COMMON STOCK 

  

99,386,576   

 
Documents Incorporated by Reference:
 
Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Stockholders (to the extent specified herein) — Part III.
 

 

 





 
PART I
 
ITEM 1. Business.
 
General Development of Business
 
Hexcel Corporation, founded in 1946, was incorporated in California in 1948, and reincorporated in Delaware in 1983.  Hexcel Corporation and its subsidiaries (herein referred to as “Hexcel”, “the Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), is a leading advanced composites company.  We develop, manufacture, and market lightweight, high-performance composites, including carbon fibers, specialty reinforcements, prepregs and other fiber-reinforced matrix materials, adhesives, honeycomb, engineered honeycomb and composite structures, for use in Commercial Aerospace, Space & Defense and Industrial Applications. Our products are used in a wide variety of end applications, such as commercial and military aircraft, space launch vehicles and satellites, wind turbine blades, automotive, bikes, skis and a wide variety of recreational products and other industrial applications.
 
We serve international markets through manufacturing facilities, sales offices and representatives located in the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and Russia.  We are also an investor in a joint venture in Malaysia, which manufactures composite structures for Commercial Aerospace applications.
 
Narrative Description of Business and Segments
 
We are a manufacturer of products within a single industry: Advanced Composites.  Hexcel has two segments, Composite Materials and Engineered Products. The Composite Materials segment is comprised of our carbon fiber, specialty reinforcements, resins, prepregs and other fiber-reinforced matrix materials, and honeycomb core product lines.  The Engineered Products segment is comprised of lightweight high strength composite structures, molded components and specialty machined honeycomb product lines.
 
The following summaries describe the ongoing activities related to the Composite Materials and Engineered Products segments as of December 31, 2011.
 
Composite Materials
 
The Composite Materials segment manufactures and markets carbon fibers, fabrics and specialty reinforcements, prepregs and other fiber-reinforced matrix materials, structural adhesives, honeycomb, molding compounds, tooling materials, polyurethane systems and laminates that are incorporated into many applications, including military and commercial aircraft, wind turbine blades, recreational products, transport (cars, boats, trains) and other industrial applications.
 
2





 
The following table identifies the principal products and examples of the primary end-uses from the Composite Materials segment:
 



SEGMENT 

  

PRODUCTS 

  

PRIMARY END-USES  


COMPOSITE MATERIALS 

  

Carbon   Fibers 

  

·                  Raw materials for   prepregs, fabrics and specialty reinforcements
·                  Filament winding for   various space, defense and industrial applications  


  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Industrial   Fabrics and Specialty Reinforcements 

  

·                  Raw materials for prepregs   and honeycomb
·                  Composites and components   used in aerospace, defense, wind energy, automotive, recreation and other   industrial applications  


  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Prepregs   and Other Fiber-Reinforced Matrix Materials 

  

·                  Composite structures
·                  Commercial and military   aircraft components
·                  Satellites and launchers
·                  Aeroengines
·                  Wind turbine and   helicopter blades
·                  Boats, trains and   performance cars
·                  Skis, snowboards, hockey   sticks, and bicycles  


  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Structural   Adhesives 

  

·                  Bonding of metals,   honeycomb and composite materials  


  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Honeycomb 

  

·                  Composite structures and   interiors
·                  Impact and shock   absorption systems
·                  Helicopter blades   
 
Carbon Fibers:  HexTow® carbon fibers are manufactured for sale to third-party customers as well as for our own use in manufacturing certain reinforcements and composite materials.  Carbon fibers are woven into carbon fabrics, used as reinforcement in conjunction with a resin matrix to produce pre-impregnated composite materials (referred to as “prepregs”).  Carbon fiber is also used in filament winding, hand layup, automatic tape layup and advanced fiber placement to produce finished composite components.  Key product applications include structural components for commercial and military aircraft, space launch vehicles, and certain other applications such as recreational and industrial equipment.
 
Industrial Fabrics and Specialty Reinforcements:  Industrial fabrics and specialty reinforcements are made from a variety of fibers, including carbon, aramid and other high strength polymers, several types of fiberglass, quartz, ceramic and other specialty fibers.  These reinforcements are used in the production of prepregs and other matrix materials used in primary and secondary structural aerospace applications such as wing components, horizontal and vertical stabilizer components, fairings, radomes and engine nacelles as well as overhead storage bins and other interior components.  Our reinforcements are also used in the manufacture of a variety of industrial and recreational products such as wind energy blades, automotive components, oil exploration and production equipment, boats, surfboards, skis and other sporting goods equipment.
 
Prepregs:  HexPly® prepregs are manufactured for sale to third-party customers and for internal use by our Engineered Products segment in manufacturing composite laminates and monolithic structures, including finished components for aircraft structures and interiors.  Prepregs are manufactured by combining high-performance reinforcement fabrics or unidirectional fibers with a resin matrix to form a composite material that, when cured, has exceptional structural properties not present in either of the constituent materials.  Prepreg reinforcements include glass, carbon, aramid, quartz, ceramic and other specialty fibers.  Resin matrices include bismaleimide, cyanate ester, epoxy, phenolic, polyester, polyimide and other specialty resins.
 
Other Fiber-Reinforced Matrix Materials:  New fiber reinforced matrix developments include HexMC®, a form of quasi-isotropic carbon fiber prepreg that enables small to medium sized composite components to be mass produced.  HexTOOL® is a specialized form of HexMC® for use in the cost-effective construction of high temperature composite tooling.  HexFIT® film infusion material is a product that combines resin films and dry fiber reinforcements to save lay-up time in production and enables the manufacture of large contoured composite structures, such as wind turbine blades.
 
Resins:  HexFlow® polymer matrix materials are sold in liquid and film form for use in direct process manufacturing of composite parts.  Resins can be combined with fiber reinforcements in manufacturing processes such as resin transfer molding (RTM),
 
3





 
resin film infusion (RFI) or vacuum assisted resin transfer molding (VARTM) to produce high quality composite components for both aerospace and industrial applications, without the need for customer investment in autoclaves.
 
Structural Adhesives:  We manufacture and market a comprehensive range of Reduxâ film and paste adhesives.  These structural adhesives, which bond metal to metal and composites and honeycomb structures, are used in the aerospace industry and for many industrial applications.
 
Honeycomb:  HexWeb® honeycomb is a lightweight, cellular structure generally composed of a sheet of nested hexagonal cells.  It can also be manufactured in over-expanded and asymmetric cell configurations to meet special design requirements such as contours or complex curvatures.  Honeycomb is primarily used as a lightweight core material and acts as a highly efficient energy absorber.  When sandwiched between composite or metallic facing skins, honeycomb significantly increases the stiffness of the structure, while adding very little weight.
 
We produce honeycomb from a number of metallic and non-metallic materials.  Most metallic honeycomb is made from aluminum and is available in a selection of alloys, cell sizes and dimensions.  Non-metallic materials used in the manufacture of honeycomb include fiberglass, carbon fiber, thermoplastics, non-flammable aramid papers, aramid fiber and other specialty materials.
 
We sell honeycomb as standard blocks and in slices cut from a block. Honeycomb is also supplied as sandwich panels, with facing skins bonded to either side of the core material.  Honeycomb is also used in Acousti-Cap® where a non-metallic permeable cap material is embedded into honeycomb core that is used in aircraft engines to dramatically reduce noise during takeoff and landing without adding a structural weight penalty.  Aerospace is the largest market for honeycomb products.  We also sell honeycomb for non-aerospace applications including automotive parts, sporting goods, building panels, high-speed trains and mass transit vehicles, energy absorption products, marine vessel compartments, and other industrial uses.  In addition, we produce honeycomb for our Engineered Products segment for use in manufacturing finished parts for airframe Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”).
 
The following table identifies the key customers and the major manufacturing facilities of the Composite Materials segment:
 



COMPOSITE MATERIALS  


KEY CUSTOMERS  


Aernnova 

  

Daher 

  

Lockheed   Martin  


Alliant   Techsystems 

  

EADS   (including Airbus and Eurocopter) 

  

Northrop   Grumman  


BAE   Systems 

  

Embraer 

  

Safran  


The   Boeing Company 

  

FACC 

  

Spirit   Aerosystems  


Bombardier 

  

Finmeccanica 

  

Textron  


CFAN 

  

Gamesa 

  

Trek  


CTRM   Aero Composites 

  

GKN 

  

United   Technologies  


Cytec   Engineered Materials 

  

Goodrich 

  

Vestas   
 



MAJOR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES  


Casa Grande, Arizona 

  

Parla,   Spain  


Decatur, Alabama 

  

Salt   Lake City, Utah  


Duxford,   England 

  

Seguin,   Texas  


Illescas,   Spain 

  

Stade,   Germany  


Les   Avenieres, France 

  

Tianjin,   China  


Nantes,   France 

  

Windsor,   Colorado  


Neumarkt,   Austria 

  

    
 
Net sales for the Composite Materials segment to third-party customers were $1,074.5 million in 2011, $904.5 million in 2010, and $856.5 million in 2009, which represented approximately 77%, of our net sales each year.  Net sales for composite materials are highly dependent upon the number of large commercial aircraft produced as further discussed under the captions “Significant Customers”, “Markets” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.  In addition, about 5% of our total production of composite materials in 2011 was used internally by the Engineered Products segment.
 
Engineered Products
 
The Engineered Products segment manufactures and markets composite structures and precision machined honeycomb parts for use in the aerospace industry. Composite structures are manufactured from a variety of composite and other materials, including prepregs, honeycomb, structural adhesives and advanced molding materials, using such manufacturing processes as autoclave processing, multi-axis numerically controlled machining, heat forming, compression molding and other composite manufacturing techniques.
 
HexMC® molded composite parts are a new form of cost-effective carbon fiber epoxy molding material that has now become baseline for a large number of primary structures on commercial airplanes. HexMC® enables complex shapes to be manufactured in series production while providing weight savings that are comparable to those achieved with aerospace carbon/epoxy prepregs.
 
4





 
The following table identifies the principal products and examples of the primary end-uses from the Engineered Products segment:
 



SEGMENT 

  

PRODUCTS 

  

PRIMARY END-USES  


ENGINEERED PRODUCTS 

  

Composite   Structures 

  

·                  Aircraft structures and   finished aircraft components, including wing to body fairings, wing panels,   flight deck panels, door liners, helicopter blades, spars and tip caps  


  

  

  

  

   


  

  

Engineered   Honeycomb 

  

·                  Aircraft structural   sub-components and semi-finished components used in helicopter blades, engine   nacelles, and aircraft surfaces (flaps, wings, elevators and fairings)  


  

  

  

  

   


  

  

HexMC®   molded composite parts 

  

·                  Complex geometric parts   for commercial aircrafts to replace traditionally metal parts including   window frames, primary structure brackets and fittings as well as for certain   industrial applications   
 
Net sales for the Engineered Products segment to third-party customers were $317.9 million in 2011, $269.1 million in 2010, and $251.8 million in 2009, which represented approximately 23% of our net sales each year.
 
The Engineered Products segment has a 50% ownership interest in a Malaysian joint venture, Asian Composites Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. (“ACM”) with Boeing Worldwide Operations Limited.  Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, Hexcel and The Boeing Company (“Boeing”) have transferred the manufacture of certain semi-finished composite components to this joint venture.  Hexcel purchases the semi-finished composite components from the joint venture, and inspects and performs additional skilled assembly work before delivering them to Boeing.  The joint venture also manufactures composite components for other aircraft component manufacturers.  ACM had revenue of $51 million, $45 million, and $39 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  For additional information on the Joint Venture investment see Note 5, Investments in Affiliated Companies.
 
The following table identifies the key customers and the major manufacturing facilities of the Engineered Products segment:
 



ENGINEERED PRODUCTS  


KEY CUSTOMERS 

  

MAJOR   MANUFACTURING FACILITIES  


The   Boeing Company 

  

Kent,   Washington  


Bombardier 

  

Burlington,   Washington  


General   Dynamics 

  

Pottsville,   Pennsylvania  


General   Electric 

  

Welkenraedt,   Belgium  


GKN 

  

Alor   Setar, Malaysia (JV)  


Hawker   Beechcraft 

  

   


Spirit   Aerosystems 

  

   


United   Technologies 

  

    
 
Financial Information About Segments and Geographic Areas
 
Financial information and further discussion of our segments and geographic areas, including external sales and long-lived assets, are contained under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Significant Customers
 
Approximately 30%, 31% and 27% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 net sales, respectively, were to Boeing and related subcontractors.  Of the 30% of overall sales to Boeing and its subcontractors in 2011, 25% related to Commercial Aerospace market applications and 5% related to Space & Defense market applications.  Approximately 27%, 24% and 22% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 net sales, respectively, were to European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (“EADS”), including its business division Airbus Industrie (“Airbus”), and its subcontractors.  Of the 27% of overall sales to EADS and its subcontractors in 2011, 24% related to Commercial Aerospace market applications and 3% related to Space & Defense market applications.
 
5





 
In 2009, Vestas Wind Systems A/S accounted for nearly 12% of the Company’s total net sales.  In 2011 and 2010, their sales were less than 10% of the total net sales for each year.  All of these sales are included in the Composite Materials segment and are in the Industrial market.
 
Markets
 
Our products are sold for a broad range of end-uses. The following tables summarize our net sales to third-party customers by market and by geography for each of the three years ended December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net Sales by Market 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Commercial Aerospace  

  

59 

% 

55 

% 

50 

%  


Space & Defense  

  

22 

  

26 

  

27 

   


Industrial  

  

19 

  

19 

  

23 

   


Total  

  

100 

% 

100 

% 

100 

%  


Net Sales by Geography (a) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


United States  

  

52 

% 

52 

% 

48 

%  


Europe  

  

48 

  

48 

  

52 

   


Total  

  

100 

% 

100 

% 

100 

%   
 



(a)          Net sales by geography based on the location in which the product sold was manufactured.
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net Sales to External Customers (b) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


United States  

  

44 

% 

45 

% 

42 

%  


Europe  

  

41 

  

41 

  

45 

   


All Others  

  

15 

  

14 

  

13 

   


Total  

  

100 

% 

100 

% 

100 

%   
 



(b)          Net sales to external customers based on the location to which the product sold was delivered.
 
Commercial Aerospace
 
The Commercial Aerospace industry is our largest user of advanced composites.  Commercial Aerospace represented 59% of our 2011 net sales. Approximately 82% of these revenues can be identified as sales to Airbus, Boeing and their subcontractors for the production of commercial aircraft.  The remaining 18% of these revenues is for regional and business aircraft.  The economic benefits airlines can obtain from weight savings in both fuel economy and aircraft range, combined with the design enhancement that comes from the advantages of advanced composites over traditional materials, have caused the industry to be the leader in the use of these materials.  While military aircraft and spacecraft have championed the development of these materials, Commercial Aerospace has had the greater consumption requirements and has commercialized the use of these products.  Accordingly, the demand for advanced structural material products is closely correlated to the demand for commercial aircraft.
 
The use of advanced composites in Commercial Aerospace is primarily in the manufacture of new commercial aircraft.  The aftermarket for these products is very small as many of these materials are designed to last for the life of the aircraft.  The demand for new commercial aircraft is driven by two principal factors, the first of which is airline passenger traffic (the number of revenue passenger miles flown by the airlines) which affects the required size of airline fleets.  The International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimates 2011 revenue passenger miles were 5.9% higher than 2010.  Growth in passenger traffic requires growth in the size of the fleet of commercial aircraft operated by airlines worldwide.
 
A second factor, which is less sensitive to the general economy, is the replacement rates for existing aircraft.  The rates of retirement of passenger and freight aircraft, resulting mainly from obsolescence, are determined in part by the regulatory requirements established by various civil aviation authorities worldwide as well as public concern regarding aircraft age, safety and noise.  These rates may also be affected by the desire of the various airlines to improve operating costs with higher payloads and more fuel-efficient aircraft (which in turn is influenced by the price of fuel) and by reducing maintenance expense.  In addition, there is expected to be increasing pressure on airlines to replace their aging fleet with more fuel efficient and quieter aircraft to be more environmentally responsible.  When aircraft are retired from commercial airline fleets, they may be converted to cargo freight aircraft or scrapped.
 
6





 
An additional factor that may cause airlines to defer or cancel orders is their ability to obtain financing, including leasing, for new aircraft orders.  This will be dependent both upon the financial health of the airline operators, as well as the overall availability of financing in the marketplace.
 
Each new generation of commercial aircraft has used increasing quantities of advanced composites, replacing metals.  This follows the trend previously seen in military fighter aircraft where advanced composites may now exceed 50% of the weight of the airframe.  Early versions of commercial jet aircraft, such as the Boeing 707, which was developed in the early 1950’s, contained almost no composite materials.  One of the first commercial aircraft to use a meaningful amount of composite materials, the Boeing 767 entered into service in 1983, and was built with an airframe containing approximately 6% composite materials.  The airframe of Boeing’s 777 aircraft, which entered service in 1995, is approximately 11% composite. The Airbus A380, which was first delivered in 2007, has approximately 23% composite content by weight.  Boeing’s latest aircraft, the B787, which entered into service in September 2011, has a content of more than 50% composite materials by weight. In December 2006, Airbus formally launched the A350 XWB (“A350”) which is also projected to have a composite content of 50% or more by weight.  Airbus targets the A350 to enter into service in 2014.  In 2011, both Airbus and Boeing announced new versions of their narrow body aircraft which will have new engines.  Airbus’ A320neo is expected to enter service in 2015 and Boeing’s B737 MAX in 2017.  It is expected that these new aircraft will offer more opportunities for composite materials than their predecessors.  We refer to this steady expansion of the use of composites in aircraft as the “secular penetration of composites” as it increases our average sales per airplane over time.
 
The impact on Hexcel of Airbus and Boeing’s production rate changes is typically influenced by two factors: the mix of aircraft produced and the inventory supply chain effects of increases or reductions in aircraft production.  We have products on all Airbus and Boeing planes.  The dollar value of our materials varies by aircraft type — twin aisle aircraft use more of our materials than narrow body aircraft and newer designed aircraft use more of our materials than older generations.  On average, for established programs, we deliver products into the supply chain about six months prior to aircraft delivery.  Depending on the product, orders placed with us are received anywhere between one and eighteen months prior to delivery of the aircraft to the customer.  For aircraft that are in the development or ramp-up stage, such as the A350 and the B787, we will have sales as much as a few years in advance of the delivery.  Increased aircraft deliveries combined with the secular penetration of composites resulted in our Commercial Aerospace revenues increasing by approximately 28% in 2011 and 16% in 2010.  In 2009, Commercial Aerospace revenues declined by 22% as our customers adjusted their inventory levels and the regional and business aircraft market declined by more than 40% from 2008.
 
Set forth below are historical aircraft deliveries as announced by Airbus and Boeing:
 



  

  

1997 

  

1998 

  

1999 

  

2000 

  

2001 

  

2002 

  

2003 

  

2004 

  

2005 

  

2006 

  

2007 

  

2008 

  

2009 

  

2010 

  

2011 

   


Airbus  

  

182 

  

229 

  

294 

  

311 

  

325 

  

303 

  

305 

  

320 

  

378 

  

434 

  

453 

  

483 

  

498 

  

510 

  

534 

   


Boeing  

  

375 

  

563 

  

620 

  

491 

  

527 

  

381 

  

281 

  

285 

  

290 

  

398 

  

441 

  

375 

  

481 

  

462 

  

477 

   


Total  

  

557 

  

792 

  

914 

  

802 

  

852 

  

684 

  

586 

  

605 

  

668 

  

832 

  

894 

  

858 

  

979 

  

972 

  

1,011 

    
 
Approximately 82% of our Commercial Aerospace revenues can be identified as sales to Airbus, Boeing and their subcontractors for the production of commercial aircraft.  Airbus and Boeing combined deliveries in 2011 were 1,011 aircraft, surpassing the previous high of 979 in 2009.  Based on Airbus and Boeing public estimates, the combined deliveries in 2012 are expected to be over 1,150 planes.  In 2011, the combined orders reported by Airbus and Boeing were for 2,224 planes, bringing their backlog at December 31, 2011 to 8,208 planes.  The balance of our Commercial Aerospace sales is related to regional and business aircraft manufacture, and other commercial aircraft applications. These applications also exhibit increasing utilization of composite materials with each new generation of aircraft.  Regional and business aircraft sales have shown steady recovery over the last several quarters to end 2011 with $150 million in sales, which was about 50% above the trough in late 2009 but down from the $200 million peak in 2008.
 
Space & Defense
 
The Space & Defense market has historically been an innovator in the use of, and source of significant demand for, advanced composites.  The aggregate demand by Space & Defense customers is primarily a function of procurement of military aircraft that utilizes advanced composites by the United States and certain European governments.  We are currently qualified to supply materials to a broad range of over 100 helicopter, military aircraft and space programs.  The top ten programs by revenues represent about 50% of our Space & Defense revenues and no one program exceeds 15% of our revenues in this segment.  Key programs include the V-22 (Osprey) tilt rotor aircraft, the Blackhawk, the C-17, the F-35 (joint strike fighter or JSF), F/A-18E/F (Hornet), the European Fighter Aircraft (Typhoon), the NH90, the S76, the Tiger helicopters, and the EADS A400M military transport.  The benefits that we obtain from these programs will depend upon which are funded and the extent of such funding.  Space applications for advanced composites include solid rocket booster cases, fairings and payload doors for launch vehicles, and buss and solar arrays for military and commercial satellites.
 
7





 
Another trend providing positive growth for Hexcel is the further penetration of composites in helicopter blades.  Numerous new helicopter programs in development, as well as upgrade or retrofit programs, have an increased reliance on Composite Materials products such as carbon fiber, prepregs, and honeycomb core to improve blade performance.  In addition, our Engineered Products segment provides specialty value added services such as machining, sub-assembly, and even full blade manufacturing.
 
Contracts for military and some commercial programs may contain provisions applicable to both U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts.  For example, a prime contractor may flow down a “termination for convenience” clause to materials suppliers such as Hexcel.  According to the terms of a contract, we may be subject to U.S. government Federal Acquisition Regulations, the Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulations Supplement, Cost Accounting Standards, and associated procurement laws.
 
Industrial Markets
 
The revenue for this market segment includes applications for our products outside the Commercial Aerospace and Space & Defense markets. A number of these applications represent emerging opportunities for our products.  In developing new applications, we seek those opportunities where advanced composites technology offer significant benefits to the end user, often applications that demand high engineering performance.  Within this segment, the major end market sub-segments include, in order of size based on our 2011 sales, wind energy, general industrial applications, recreational equipment (e.g., skis and snowboards, bicycles and hockey sticks), and transportation (e.g., automobiles, mass transit and high-speed rail, and marine applications). Our participation in industrial market applications complements our commercial and military aerospace businesses, and we are committed to pursuing the utilization of advanced structural material technology where it can generate significant value and we can maintain a sustainable competitive advantage.
 
Further discussion of our markets, including certain risks, uncertainties and other factors with respect to “forward-looking statements” about those markets, is contained under the captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Risk Factors”.
 
Backlog
 
In recent years, our customers have demanded shorter order lead times and “just-in-time” delivery performance.  While we have many multi-year contracts with our major aerospace customers, most of these contracts specify the proportion of the customers’ requirements that will be supplied by us and the terms under which the sales will occur, not the specific quantities to be procured.  Our Industrial customers have always desired to order their requirements on as short a lead-time as possible.  As a result, twelve-month order backlog is not a meaningful trend indicator for us.
 
Raw Materials and Production Activities
 
Our manufacturing operations are in many cases vertically integrated.  We produce carbon fibers, industrial fabrics, composite materials and composite structures as well as sell these materials to third-party customers for their use in the manufacture of their products.
 
We manufacture high performance carbon fiber from polyacrylonitrile precursor (“PAN”).  The primary raw material for PAN is acrylonitrile.  All of the PAN we produce is for internal carbon fiber production.  We consume approximately two-thirds by value of the carbon fiber we produce and sell the remainder of our output to third-party customers.  However, as one of the world’s largest consumers of high performance carbon fiber, we also purchase significant quantities of carbon fiber from external sources for our own use.  The sources of carbon fiber we can use in any product or application are sometimes dictated by customer qualifications or certifications.  Otherwise we select a carbon fiber based on performance, price and availability.  With the increasing demand for carbon fiber, particularly in aerospace applications, we have more than doubled our PAN and carbon fiber capacity over the past several years to serve the growing needs of our customers and our own downstream products and we are continuing to expand our capacity to meet our customers’ forecasted requirements. After a new production line starts operating, it can take over a year to be certified for aerospace qualifications.  However, these lines can start supplying carbon fiber for many industrial and recreational applications within a short time period.
 
8





 
We purchase glass yarn from a number of suppliers in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also purchase aramid and high strength fibers which are produced by only a few companies, and during periods of high demand, can be in short supply.  In addition, epoxy and other specialty resins, aramid paper and aluminum specialty foils are used in the manufacture of composite products. A number of these products have only one or two sources qualified for use, so an interruption in their supply could disrupt our ability to meet our customer requirements. When entering into multi-year contracts with aerospace customers, we attempt to get back-to-back commitments from key raw material suppliers.
 
Our manufacturing activities are primarily based on “make-to-order”, or “demand pull” based on customer schedules, and to a lesser extent, “make-to-forecast” production requirements. We coordinate closely with key suppliers in an effort to avoid raw material shortages and excess inventories. However, many of the key raw materials we consume are available from relatively few sources, and in many cases the cost of product qualification makes it impractical to develop multiple sources of supply. The lack of availability of these materials could under certain circumstances have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.
 
Research and Technology; Patents and Know-How
 
Research and Technology (“R&T”) departments support our businesses worldwide. Through R&T activities, we maintain expertise in precursor and carbon fiber, chemical and polymer formulation and curatives, fabric forming and textile architectures, advanced composite structures, process engineering, application development, analysis and testing of composite materials, computational design, and other scientific disciplines related to our worldwide business base.
 
Our products rely primarily on our expertise in materials science, textiles, process engineering and polymer chemistry.  Consistent with market demand, we have been placing more emphasis on higher performing products and cost effective production processes while seeking to improve the consistency of our products and our capital efficiency.  Towards this end, we have entered into formal and informal alliances, as well as licensing and teaming arrangements, with several customers, suppliers, external agencies and laboratories.  We believe that we possess unique capabilities to design, develop and manufacture composite materials and structures.  We have over 700 patents and pending applications worldwide, and have granted technology licenses and patent rights to several third parties primarily in connection with joint ventures and joint development programs.  It is our policy to actively enforce our proprietary rights. We believe that the patents and know-how rights currently owned or licensed by Hexcel are adequate for the conduct of our business. We do not believe that our business would be materially affected by the expiration of any single patent or series of related patents, or by the termination of any single license agreement or series of related license agreements.
 
We spent $32.6 million, $30.8 million and $30.1 million for R&T in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Our 2011 spending is 5.8% higher than 2010.  Our spending on a quarter to quarter basis fluctuates depending upon the amount of new product development and qualification activities, particularly in relation to commercial aircraft applications, that are in progress.  These expenditures are expensed as incurred.
 
Environmental Matters
 
We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations designed to protect the environment and to regulate the discharge of materials into the environment.  We believe that our policies, practices, and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and associated financial liability.  To date, environmental control regulations have not had a significant adverse effect on our overall operations.
 
Our aggregate environmental related accruals at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $5.0 million and $7.3 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, $3.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively, were included in “Other current accrued liabilities”, with the remainder included in “Other non-current liabilities”.  As related to certain of our environmental matters, our accruals were estimated at the low end of a range of possible outcomes since there was no better point within the range.  If we had accrued for these matters at the high end of the range of possible outcomes, our accruals would have been $6.8 million and $8.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Environmental remediation spending charged directly to our reserve balance for 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $5.7 million, $4.8 million and $2.8 million, respectively.  In addition, our operating costs relating to environmental compliance were $10.3 million, $9.5 million and $10.0 million, for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, and were charged directly to expense.  Capital expenditures for environmental matters approximated $4.1 million, $1.7 million and $4.8 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively.
 
These accruals can change significantly from period to period due to such factors as additional information on the nature or extent of contamination, the methods of remediation required, changes in the apportionment of costs among responsible parties and other actions by governmental agencies or private parties, as well as the impact, if any, of Hexcel being named in a new matter.  A discussion of environmental matters is contained in Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” and in Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
9





 
Sales and Marketing
 
A staff of salaried market managers, product managers and sales personnel sell and market our products directly to customers worldwide.  We also use independent distributors and manufacturer representatives for certain products, markets and regions.  In addition, we operate various sales representation offices in the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific and Russia.
 
Competition
 
In the production and sale of advanced composites, we compete with a number of U.S. and international companies on a worldwide basis.  The broad markets for composites are highly competitive, and we have focused on both specific submarkets and specialty products within markets.  In addition to competing directly with companies offering similar products, we compete with producers of substitute composites such as structural foam, infusion technology, wood and metal.  Depending upon the material and markets, relevant competitive factors include approvals, database of usage, technology, product performance, delivery, service, price and customer preference for sole sourcing.
 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2011, we employed 4,508 full-time employees and contract workers, 2,584 in the United States and 1,924 in other countries.  Of the 4,508 full-time employees, less than 17% were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We believe that our relations with employees and unions are good.  The number of full-time employees and contract workers as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was 4,043 and 3,734, respectively.
 
Other Information
 
Our internet website is www.hexcel.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Form 10-Ks, 10-Qs and 8-Ks, and any amendments to these forms, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
ITEM 1A. Risk Factors
 
An investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties.  You should consider the following risk factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase any of our securities.
 
The markets in which we operate can be cyclical, and downturns in them may adversely affect the results of our operations.
 
Some of the markets in which we operate have been, to varying degrees, cyclical and have experienced downturns.  A downturn in these markets could occur at any time as a result of events that are industry specific or macroeconomic and in the event of a downturn, we have no way of knowing if, when and to what extent there might be a recovery.  Any deterioration in any of the cyclical markets we serve could adversely affect our financial performance and operating results.
 
At December 31, 2011, Airbus and Boeing had a combined backlog of 8,208 aircraft, which is about eight years of production at current delivery rates.  To the extent any significant deferrals, cancellations or reduction in demand results in decreased aircraft build rates, it would reduce net sales for our Commercial Aerospace products and as a result reduce our operating income.  Approximately 59% of our net sales for 2011 were derived from sales to the Commercial Aerospace industry, which includes 82% from Airbus and Boeing aircraft and 18% from regional and business aircraft.  Reductions in demand for commercial aircraft or a delay in deliveries could result from many factors, including terrorist events and any subsequent military response, changes in the propensity for the general public to travel by air, a rise in the cost of aviation fuel, a change in technology resulting in the use of alternative materials, consolidation and liquidation of airlines, availability of funding for new aircraft purchases or leases, inventory corrections or disruptions throughout the supply chain and slower macroeconomic growth.  Both Airbus and Boeing have experienced various delays in their newest aircraft programs, including the A380, B787, B747-8, A400M, and A350.  These delays have delayed and may continue to delay our expected growth or our effective utilization of capacity installed for such growth.  Future delays in these or other major new customer programs could similarly impact our results.
 
In addition, our customers continue to emphasize the need for cost reduction or other improvements in contract terms throughout the supply chain.  In response to these pressures, we may be required to accept increased risk or face the prospects of margin compression on some products in the future. Where possible, we seek to offset or mitigate the impact of such pressures through productivity and performance improvements, index clauses, currency hedging and other actions.
 
10





 
A significant decline in business with Boeing, EADS, Vestas, or other significant customers could materially impact our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition.
 
We have concentrated customers in the Commercial Aerospace and wind energy markets.  In the Commercial Aerospace market, approximately 82%, and in the Space & Defense market, approximately 35%, of our 2011 net sales were made to Boeing and EADS (including Airbus) and their related subcontractors.  For the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, approximately 29% and 31% of our total consolidated net sales were to Boeing and its related subcontractors, respectively, and approximately 28% and 24% of our total consolidated net sales, respectively, were to EADS, including Airbus and its related subcontractors.  In the wind energy market, our primary customer is Vestas Wind Systems A/S.  Significant changes in the demand for our customers’ end products, the share of their requirements that is awarded to us or changes in the design or materials used to construct their products could result in a significant loss of business with these customers.  The loss of, or significant reduction in purchases by, Boeing, EADS and Vestas or any of our other significant customers could materially impair our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition.  The level of purchases by our customers is often affected by events beyond their control, including general economic conditions, demand for their products, business disruptions, disruptions in deliveries, strikes and other factors.
 
Reductions in space and defense spending could result in a decline in our net sales.
 
The growth in military aircraft production that has occurred in recent years may not be sustained, individual programs important to Hexcel may be cancelled, production may not continue to grow and the increased demand for replacement helicopter blades may not continue. The production of military aircraft depends upon defense budgets and the related demand for defense and related equipment. Approximately 23% of our net sales in 2011 were derived from space and defense industries.
 
A decrease in supply, interruptions at key facilities or an increase in cost of raw materials could result in a material decline in our profitability.
 
Our profitability depends largely on the price and continuity of supply of raw materials, which may be supplied through a sole source or a limited number of sources.  We purchase large volumes of raw materials, such as epoxy and phenolic resins, carbon fiber, fiberglass yarn, aluminum foil and aramid paper.  Any restrictions on the supply, or an increase in the cost, of our raw materials could significantly reduce our profit margins.  Efforts to mitigate restrictions on the supply or price increases of these raw materials by long-term purchase agreements, productivity improvements or by passing cost increases to our customers may not be successful.
 
The occurrence of material operational problems, including but not limited to failure of, or interruption to, key equipment or natural disasters, may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility. With respect to certain facilities, such events could have a material effect on our company as a whole.
 
We have substantial international operations subject to uncertainties which could affect our operating results.
 
We believe that revenue from sales outside the U.S. will continue to account for a material portion of our total revenue for the foreseeable future.  In 2011, 48% of our production and 56% of our customer sales occurred outside of the United States.  Additionally, we have invested significant resources in our international operations and we intend to continue to make such investments in the future. Our international operations are subject to numerous risks, including: (a) general economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate may have an adverse effect on our operations in those countries or not be favorable to our growth strategy; (b) the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through some foreign legal systems; (c) foreign customers may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; (d) cost of compliance with international trade laws of all of the countries in which we do business, including export control laws, relating to sales and purchases of goods and equipment and transfers of technology; (e) tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those of the U.S. and foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; governments may adopt regulations or take other actions that would have a direct or indirect adverse impact on our business and market opportunities; and (f) the potential difficulty in enforcing our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, and the potential for the intellectual property rights of others to affect our ability to sell product in certain markets.  Any one of these could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
 
In addition, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may influence the profitability and cash flows of our business.  For example, our European operations sell a portion of the products they produce in U.S. dollars, yet the labor, overhead costs and portions of material costs incurred in the manufacture of those products are denominated in Euros, British pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. As a result, the local currency margins of goods manufactured with costs denominated in local currency, yet sold in U.S. dollars, will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates, reducing when the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro and British pound sterling. In addition, the reported U.S. dollar value of the local currency financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries will vary with fluctuations in currency exchange rates. While we enter into currency exchange and hedge agreements from time to time to mitigate these types of
 
11





 
fluctuations, we cannot remove all fluctuations or hedge all exposures, and our earnings are impacted by changes in currency exchange rates.
 
We currently do not have political risk insurance in the countries in which we conduct business. While we carefully consider these risks when evaluating our international operations we cannot provide assurance that we will not be materially adversely affected as a result of such risks.
 
We could be adversely affected by environmental and safety requirements.
 
Our operations require the handling, use, storage and disposal of certain regulated materials and wastes. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations pertaining to pollution and protection of the environment, health and safety.  These requirements govern, among other things, emissions to air, discharge to waters and the generation, handling, storage, treatment and disposal of waste and remediation of contaminated sites.  We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures in order to comply with these laws and regulations.  These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and could become more stringent in the future.
 
We have been named as a “potentially responsible party” under the U.S. Superfund law or similar state laws at several sites requiring clean up. These laws generally impose liability for costs to investigate and remediate contamination without regard to fault. Under certain circumstances liability may be joint and several, resulting in one responsible party being held responsible for the entire obligation.  Liability may also include damages to natural resources.  We have incurred and likely will continue to incur expenses to investigate and clean up certain of our existing and former facilities, for which we believe we have adequate reserves.  The ongoing operation of our manufacturing plants also entails environmental risks, and we may incur material costs or liabilities in the future which could adversely affect us. Although most of our properties have been the subject of environmental site assessments, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil and groundwater contamination have been identified, even at those sites where assessments have been conducted. Accordingly, we may discover previously unknown environmental conditions and the cost of remediating such conditions may be material.  See “Legal Proceedings” below and Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
In addition, we may be required to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or requirements that may be adopted or imposed in the future or to address newly discovered information or conditions that require a response. In particular, climate change is receiving increased attention worldwide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions.  The U.S. Congress is currently considering climate change-related legislation which may include cap and trade provisions or a carbon tax. The European Union has instituted the Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System (EU-ETS). Our manufacturing plants use energy, including electricity and natural gas, and certain of our plants emit amounts of greenhouse gas that may be affected by these legislative and regulatory efforts.  It is difficult at this time to estimate the likelihood of passage, or predict the potential impact, of any additional legislation. Potential consequences could include increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require the Company to make additional investments in its facilities and equipment or limit our ability to grow.
 
Our forward-looking statements and projections may turn out to be inaccurate.
 
This Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements relate to analyses and other information that are based on forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet determinable.  These statements also relate to future prospects, developments and business strategies.  These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “predict”, “project”, “should”, “would”, “will” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions.  Such statements are based on current expectations, are inherently uncertain, and are subject to changing assumptions.
 
Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (a) the estimates and expectations based on aircraft production rates made publicly available by Airbus and Boeing; (b) the revenues we may generate from an aircraft model or program; (c)  the impact of the possible push-out in deliveries of the Airbus and Boeing backlog and the impact of delays in new aircraft programs or the final Hexcel composite material content once the design and material selection has been completed; (d) expectations of composite content on new commercial aircraft programs and our share of those requirements; (e) expectations of growth in revenues from space and defense applications, including whether certain programs might be curtailed or discontinued; (f) expectations regarding growth in sales for wind energy, recreation and other industrial applications; (g) expectations regarding working capital trends and expenditures; (h) expectations as to the level of capital expenditures and when we will complete the construction and qualification of
 
12





 
capacity expansions; (i) our ability to maintain and improve margins in light of the ramp-up of capacity and new facilities and the current economic environment; (j) the outcome of legal matters; (k) our projections regarding the realizability of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards; and (l) the impact of various market risks, including fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates, environmental regulations and tax codes, fluctuations in commodity prices, and fluctuations in the market price of our common stock and the impact of the above factors on our expectations of 2012 financial results.  In addition, actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward looking statements due to a variety of factors, including but not limited to changing market conditions, increased competition, product mix, inability to achieve planned manufacturing improvements, cost reductions and capacity additions, and conditions in the financial markets.
 
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to be materially different. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following: changes in general economic and business conditions; changes in current pricing and cost levels; changes in political, social and economic conditions and local regulations, particularly in Asia and Europe; foreign currency fluctuations; changes in aerospace delivery rates; reductions in sales to any significant customers, particularly Airbus, Boeing or Vestas; changes in sales mix; changes in government defense procurement budgets; changes in military aerospace programs technology; industry capacity; competition; disruptions of established supply channels, particularly where raw materials are obtained from a single or limited number of sources and cannot be substituted by unqualified alternatives; manufacturing capacity constraints; and the availability, terms and deployment of capital.
 
If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those expected, estimated or projected.  In addition to other factors that affect our operating results and financial position, neither past financial performance nor our expectations should be considered reliable indicators of future performance.  Investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.  Further, our stock price is subject to volatility.  Any of the factors discussed above could have an adverse impact on our stock price.  In addition, failure of sales or income in any quarter to meet the investment community’s expectations, as well as broader market trends, can have an adverse impact on our stock price.  We do not undertake an obligation to update our forward-looking statements or risk factors to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
 
None.
 
ITEM 2. Properties
 
We own and lease manufacturing facilities and sales offices located throughout the United States and in other countries, as noted below. The corporate offices and principal corporate support activities are located in leased facilities in Stamford, Connecticut. Our research and technology administration and principal laboratories are located in Dublin, California; Duxford, United Kingdom; Les Avenieres, France; and Decatur, Alabama.
 
13





 
The following table lists our manufacturing facilities by geographic location, related segment, and principal products manufactured. This table does not include the manufacturing facility owned by ACM.
 
Manufacturing Facilities
 



Facility Location 

  

Segment 

  

Principal Products  


United States: 

  

  

  

   


Decatur, Alabama 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

PAN   Precursor (used to produce Carbon Fibers)  


Salt Lake City, Utah 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Carbon   Fibers; Prepregs  


Seguin, Texas 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Industrial   Fabrics; Specialty Reinforcements  


Casa Grande, Arizona 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Honeycomb   and Honeycomb Parts  


Windsor, Colorado 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs  


Kent, Washington 

  

Engineered   Products 

  

Composite   structures  


Pottsville, Pennsylvania 

  

Engineered   Products 

  

Engineered   Honeycomb Parts  


Burlington, Washington 

  

Engineered   Products 

  

Engineered   Honeycomb Parts  


International: 

  

  

  

   


Dagneux, France 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs  


Nantes, France 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs  


Les Avenieres, France 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Industrial   Fabrics; Specialty Reinforcements  


Illescas, Spain 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Carbon   Fibers  


Parla, Spain 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs  


Neumarkt, Austria 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs  


Duxford, United Kingdom 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs;   Adhesives; Honeycomb and Honeycomb Parts  


Stade, Germany 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs  


Welkenraedt, Belgium 

  

Engineered   Products 

  

Engineered   Honeycomb Parts  


Tianjin, China 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Prepregs   
 
We lease the land and buildings in Nantes, France; Stade, Germany and Tianjin, China; and the land on which the Burlington, Washington facility is located.  We also lease portions of the facilities located in Casa Grande, Arizona and Les Avenieres, France.  We own all other remaining facilities.  In connection with our credit facility, we have granted mortgages on the facilities located in Casa Grande, Arizona; Decatur, Alabama; Dublin, California; Kent, Washington; Salt Lake City, Utah and Seguin, Texas.  For further information, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and to Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings
 
We are involved in litigation, investigations and claims arising out of the normal conduct of our business, including those relating to commercial transactions, environmental, employment, and health and safety matters.  We estimate and accrue our liabilities resulting from such matters based on a variety of factors, including the stage of the proceeding; potential settlement value; assessments by internal and external counsel; and assessments by environmental engineers and consultants of potential environmental liabilities and remediation costs.  Such estimates are not discounted to reflect the time value of money due to the uncertainty in estimating the timing of the expenditures, which may extend over several years.
 
While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to certain contingent liabilities and claims, we believe, based upon our examination of currently available information, our experience to date, and advice from legal counsel, that the individual and aggregate liabilities resulting from the ultimate resolution of these contingent matters, after taking into consideration our existing insurance coverage and amounts already provided for, will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Environmental Matters
 
We are subject to various U.S. and international federal, state and local environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations.  We are also subject to liabilities arising under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”), the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and similar state and international laws and regulations that impose responsibility for the control, remediation and abatement of air, water and soil pollutants and the manufacturing, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and waste.
 
14





 
We have been named as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) with respect to several hazardous waste disposal sites that we do not own or possess, which are included on, or proposed to be included on, the Superfund National Priority List of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or on equivalent lists of various state governments.  Because CERCLA allows for joint and several liability in certain circumstances, we could be responsible for all remediation costs at such sites, even if we are one of many PRPs.  We believe, based on the amount and nature of our waste, and the number of other financially viable PRPs, that our liability in connection with such matters will not be material.
 
Lodi, New Jersey Site
 
Pursuant to the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act, Hexcel entered into an Administrative Consent Order for the environmental remediation of a manufacturing facility we own and formerly operated in Lodi, New Jersey.  We have been remediating this site in accordance with an approved plan.  In the first quarter of 2010, we implemented new technology to enhance the remediation system to accelerate completion of the remediation.  We had expected to substantially complete the remediation by the end of 2011, but severe regional flooding, most recently from hurricane Irene, extended the completion date to the first half of 2012 and increased the remediation costs.  Consequently, in 2011, we accrued an additional $2.5 million related to this extended remediation which increased the accrual to $2.8 million at December 30, 2011.
 
Lower Passaic River Study Area
 
In October 2003, we received, along with 66 other entities, a directive from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (“NJDEP”) that requires the entities to assess whether operations at various New Jersey sites, including our former manufacturing site in Lodi, New Jersey, caused damage to natural resources in the Lower Passaic River watershed.  In May 2005, the NJDEP dismissed us from the Directive.  In February 2004, 42 entities including Hexcel, received a general notice letter from the EPA which requested that the entities consider helping to finance an estimated $10 million towards an EPA study of environmental conditions in the Lower Passaic River watershed.  In May 2005, we signed into an agreement with the EPA to participate (bringing the total number of participating entities to 43) in financing such a study up to $10 million, in the aggregate.  Since May 2005, a number of additional PRPs have joined into the agreement with the EPA.  In October 2005, we along with the other EPA notice recipients were advised by the EPA that the notice recipients’ share of the costs of the EPA study was expected to significantly exceed the earlier EPA estimate.  While we and the other recipients were not obligated by our agreement to share in such excess, a Group of notice recipients (73 companies including Hexcel) negotiated an agreement with the EPA to assume responsibility for the study pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent.  We believe we have viable defenses to the EPA claims and expect that other as yet unnamed parties will also receive notices from the EPA.  In June 2007, the EPA issued a draft Focused Feasibility Study (“FFS”) that considers interim remedial options for the lower eight miles of the river, in addition to a “no action” option.  The estimated costs for the six options ranged from $900 million to $2.3 billion.  The PRP Group provided comments to the EPA on the FFS; the EPA has not yet taken further action.  The Administrative Order on Consent regarding the study does not cover work contemplated by the FFS.  Furthermore, the Federal Trustee for natural resources have indicated their intent to perform a natural resources damage assessment on the river and invited the PRPs to participate in the development and performance of this assessment.  The PRP Group, including Hexcel, has not agreed to participate in the assessment at this time.  Finally, on February 4, 2009, Tierra Solutions (“Tierra”) and Maxus Energy Corporation (“Maxus”) filed a third party complaint in New Jersey Superior Court against us and over 300 other entities in an action brought against Tierra and Maxus (and other entities) by the State of New Jersey.  New Jersey’s suit against Tierra and Maxus relates to alleged discharges of contaminants by Tierra and Maxus to the Passaic River and seeks payment of all past and future costs the State has and will incur regarding cleanup and removal of contaminants, investigation of the Passaic River and related water bodies, assessment of natural resource injuries and other specified injuries.  The third party complaint seeks contribution from us for all or part of the damages that Tierra and Maxus may owe to the State.  We filed our answer to the complaint and served our initial disclosures, and have produced initial documents to Tierra and Maxus, pursuant to an order of the court.  We expect additional discovery and litigation activities to occur during 2012.  The court has issued a trial plan that contemplates a liability trial for third-party defendants (including Hexcel) in April 2013, with additional proceedings if necessary to allocate costs between third-party defendants in January 2014.  Our ultimate liability for investigatory costs, remedial costs and/or natural resource damages in connection with the Lower Passaic River cannot be determined at this time.
 
Kent, Washington Site
 
We were party to a cost-sharing agreement regarding the operation of certain environmental remediation systems necessary to satisfy a post-closure care permit issued to a previous owner of our Kent, Washington site by the EPA.  Under the terms of the cost-sharing agreement, we were obligated to reimburse the previous owner for a portion of the cost of the required remediation activities.  Management has determined that the cost-sharing agreement terminated in December 1998; however, the other party disputes this determination.  The Washington Department of Ecology (“Ecology”) has issued a unilateral Enforcement Order to us requiring us to (a) maintain the interim remedial system and to perform system separation, (b) to conduct a focused remedial investigation and (c) to conduct a focused feasibility study to develop recommended long term remedial measures.  We asserted defenses against performance 
 
15





 
of the order, particularly objecting to the remediation plan proposed by the previous owner, who still owns the adjacent contaminated site.  However, we are currently complying with the order, with one exception, without withdrawing our defenses.  As a result of a dispute resolution procedure, Hexcel and Ecology have reached an agreement to modify certain work requirements and to extend certain deadlines, and we are in full compliance with the order as modified  The total accrued liability related to this matter was $1.4 million at December 31, 2011.
 
Omega Chemical Corporation Superfund Site, Whittier, CA
 
We are a PRP at a former chemical waste site in Whittier, CA.  The PRPs at Omega have established a PRP Group, the “Omega Group”, and are currently investigating and remediating soil and groundwater at the site pursuant to a Consent Decree with the EPA.  Hexcel contributed approximately 1.07% of the waste tonnage sent to the site during its operations.  In addition to the Omega site specifically, the EPA is investigating the scope of regional groundwater contamination in the vicinity of the Omega site and recently issued a Record of Decision; the Omega PRP Group members have been noticed by the EPA as PRP’s who will be required to be involved in the remediation of the regional groundwater contamination in that vicinity as well.  As a member of the Omega PRP group, Hexcel will likely incur costs associated with the investigation and remediation of the Omega site, but our ultimate liability, if any, in connection with this matter cannot be determined at this time.
 
Environmental remediation reserve activity for the three years ended December 31, 2011 was as follows:
 



  

  

For the year ended December 31, 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Beginning remediation accrual balance 

  

$ 

7.3 

  

$ 

8.3 

  

$ 

9.2 

   


Current period expenses 

  

3.4 

  

3.8 

  

1.9 

   


Cash expenditures 

  

(5.7 

) 

(4.8 

) 

(2.8 

)  


Ending remediation accrual balance  

  

$ 

5.0 

  

$ 

7.3 

  

$ 

8.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital expenditures for environmental matters 

  

$ 

4.1 

  

$ 

1.7 

  

$ 

4.8 

    
 
Environmental Summary
 
Our estimate of liability as a PRP and our remaining costs associated with our responsibility to remediate the Lodi, New Jersey; Kent, Washington; and other sites are accrued in the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our aggregate environmental related accruals were $5.0 million and $7.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $3.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively, were included in current other accrued liabilities, with the remainder included in other non-current liabilities.  As related to certain environmental matters, the accruals were estimated at the low end of a range of possible outcomes since no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount.  If we had accrued for these matters at the high end of the range of possible outcomes, our accrual would have been $6.8 million and $8.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
These accruals can change significantly from period to period due to such factors as additional information on the nature or extent of contamination, the methods of remediation required, changes in the apportionment of costs among responsible parties and other actions by governmental agencies or private parties, or the impact, if any, of being named in a new matter.
 
Environmental remediation spending charged directly to our reserve balance was $5.7 million and $4.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  In addition, our operating costs relating to environmental compliance charged directly to expense were $10.3 million and $9.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Capital expenditures for environmental matters were $4.1 million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
ITEM 4. Mine Safety Disclosure
 
Not applicable.
 
PART II
 
ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
 
Hexcel common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  The range of high and low sales prices of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange is contained in Note 22 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
16





 
Hexcel did not declare or pay any dividends in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  The payment of dividends is limited under the terms of certain of our debt agreements. Hexcel does not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, as cash generated from operations will be used primarily to support capital expenditures or pay down debt.
 
On February 2, 2012 there were 989 holders of record of our common stock.
 
The following chart provides information regarding repurchases of Hexcel common stock:
 



Period 

  

(a)   Total Number   of   Shares (or   Units)   Purchased 

  

(b)   Average Price   Paid   per Share (or Unit) 

  

(c)   Total Number of   Shares (or Units)   Purchased as   Part of   Publicly Announced   Plans or Programs 

  

(d)   Maximum Number (or   Approximate Dollar Value) of   Shares (or Units) that   May Yet   Be Purchased Under the   Plans or   Programs 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


October 1 — October 31, 2011  

  

17,735 

  

$ 

25.84 

  

0 

  

0 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


November 1 — November 30, 2011  

  

0 

  

NA 

  

0 

  

0 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


December 1 — December 31, 2011  

  

36,733 

  

23.92 

  

0 

  

0 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total  

  

54,468 

(1) 

$ 

24.55 

  

0 

  

0 

    
 



(1) All Shares were delivered by employees in payment of the exercise price of non-qualified stock options.
 
ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data
 
The information required by Item 6 is contained on page 25 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Selected Financial Data” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The information required by Item 7 is contained on pages 26 to 36 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
 
The information required by Item 7A is contained under the heading “Market Risks” on pages 36 to 38 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
The information required by Item 8 is contained on pages 43 to 73 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under “Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is incorporated herein by reference. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm is contained on page 42 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2011 and have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, 
 
17





 
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms.  These disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports we file or submit is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 
Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that there have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
Management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting is contained on page 41 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9B. Other Information
 
None.
 
PART III
 
ITEM 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
The information required by Item 10 will be contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 11.  Executive Compensation
 
The information required by Item 11 will be contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
The information required by Item 12 will be contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
The information required by Item 13 will be contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 
The information required by Item 14 will be contained in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
PART IV
 
ITEM 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
(a)  Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits
 



(1) 

Financial   Statements: 

   


  

  

   


  

Report   of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

    
 
18





 



  

Consolidated   Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 

   


  

  

   


  

Consolidated   Statements of Operations for each of the three years ended December 31,   2011 

   


  

  

   


  

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity   and Comprehensive Income for each of the three years ended December 31,   2011 

   


  

  

   


  

Consolidated   Statements of Cash Flows for each of the three years ended December 31,   2011 

   


  

  

   


  

Notes   to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

   


  

   


(2) 

Financial   Statement Schedule for the three years ended December 31, 2011:  


  

   


  

Schedule   II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

   


  

   


  

All other schedules are omitted because they are   not applicable or the required information is shown in the financial   statements or the notes thereto.  


  

   


(3)  Exhibits:  


  

   


  

The   following list of exhibits includes exhibits submitted with this   Form 10-K as filed with the SEC and those incorporated by reference to   other filings.   
 



Exhibit No. 

  

Description  


  

  

   


2.1 

  

Asset   Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 21, 2007 by and among JPS   Industries, Inc., Hexcel Corporation and Hexcel Reinforcements Corp.   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current   Report on Form 8-K dated June 26, 2007).  


  

  

   


3.1 

  

Restated   Certificate of Incorporation of Hexcel Corporation (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 1 to Hexcel’s Registration Statement on   Form 8-A dated July 9, 1996, Registration No. 1-08472).  


  

  

   


3.2 

  

Certificate   of Amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Hexcel   Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the   Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31,   2002, filed on March 31, 2003).  


  

  

   


3.3 

  

Amended   and Restated Bylaws of Hexcel Corporation (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 3 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   December 7, 2011).  


  

  

   


4 

  

Indenture   dated as of February 1, 2005 between Hexcel Corporation and The Bank of   New York, as trustee, relating to the issuance of the 6.75% Senior   Subordinated Notes due 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1   to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 4, 2005).  


  

  

   


10.1 

  

Credit   Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2010, entered into by and among Hexcel   Corporation, Hexcel Holdings SASU, the financial institutions from time to   time party thereto, Banc of America Securities LLC, as a joint book manager   and as a joint lead arranger, RBS Citizens, N.A., as syndication agent, as a   joint book manager and as a joint lead arranger, HSBC Bank USA, National   Association, as a documentation agent, TD Bank, N.A., as a documentation   agent, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as a documentation agent and   Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders. Confidential   portions of this exhibit have been omitted and filed separately with the   Securities and Exchange Commission with a request for confidential treatment   pursuant to Rule 24b-2. The location of an omitted portion is indicated   by a set of asterisks within brackets (“[***]”) (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 99.1 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   July 14, 2010).  


  

  

   


10.1(a) 

  

Amendment   No. 1 to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 19, 2012, entered into by and   among Hexcel Corporation, Hexcel Holdings SASU, Bank of America, N.A., in its   capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders and each of the Lenders   signatory thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s   Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 25, 2012).  


  

  

   


10.2 

  

Security Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2010,   by and among Hexcel Corporation, each of the direct and indirect subsidiaries   of Hexcel Corporation listed on the signature pages thereto, and each   additional grantor that may become a   
 
19





 



  

  

party thereto after the date thereof in accordance   with Section 21 thereof, and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative   agent for each of the Secured Parties (as defined in the Credit Agreement).   Confidential portions of this exhibit have been omitted and filed separately   with the Securities and Exchange Commission with a request for confidential   treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2. The location of an omitted portion is   indicated by a set of asterisks within brackets (“[***]”)   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Hexcel’s Current Report on   Form 8-K dated July 14, 2010).  


  

  

   


10.3 

  

Subsidiary Guaranty, dated as of July 9,   2010, by the parties listed on the signature pages thereto in favor of   and for the benefit of Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent for   each of the Secured Parties (as defined in the Credit Agreement)   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Hexcel’s Current Report on   Form 8-K dated July 14, 2010).  


  

  

   


10.4 

  

Company Guaranty, dated as of July 9, 2010,   by Hexcel Corporation in favor of and for the benefit of Bank of America,   N.A., as administrative agent for each of the Secured Parties (as defined in   the Credit Agreement)(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to   Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 14, 2010).  


  

  

   


10.5 

  

Special   Warranty Deed made and entered into January 20, 2012, by and between the   United States of America, as Grantor, acting by and through its legal agent,   the Tennessee Valley Authority, and Hexcel Corporation, as Grantee   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current   Report on Form 8-K dated January 25, 2012).  


  

  

   


10.6* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 2003 Incentive Stock Plan (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, filed on March 31, 2003).  


  

  

   


10.6(a)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 2003 Incentive Stock Plan as amended and restated   December 11, 2003 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.3(a) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K   for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).  


  

  

   


10.6(b)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 2003 Incentive Stock Plan as amended and restated May 19,   2005 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s   Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 24, 2005).  


  

  

   


10.6(c)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 2003 Incentive Stock Plan as amended and restated   December 31, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 99.12 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.6(d)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 2003 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated as of   May 7, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4(d) to   the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,   2009).  


  

  

   


10.7* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated on January 30,   1997, and further amended on December 10, 1997 and March 25, 1999   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Company’s   Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on July 26, 1999).  


  

  

   


10.7(a)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated on January 30,   1997, and further amended on December 10, 1997, March 25, 1999 and   December 2, 1999 (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 10.3(c) of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K   for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999).  


  

  

   


10.7(b)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated on February 3,   2000 (incorporated herein by reference to Annex A of the Company’s Proxy   Statement dated March 31, 2000).  


  

  

   


10.7(c)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated on   December 19, 2000 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.3(e) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K   for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000).  


  

  

   


10.7(d)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Incentive Stock Plan, as amended and restated on   December 19, 2000 and further amended on January 10, 2002   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3(f) to the Company’s   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,   2001).  


  

  

   


10.8* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 1998 Broad Based Incentive Stock Plan (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Company’s Form S-8 filed on   June 19, 1998, Registration No. 333-57223).  


  

  

   


10.8(a)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 1998 Broad Based Incentive Stock Plan, as amended on   February 3, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to   Hexcel’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended   June 30, 2000).   
 
20





 



10.8(b)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 1998 Broad Based Incentive Stock Plan, as amended on   February 3, 2000, and further amended on February 1, 2001   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4(b) to the Company’s   Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,   2000).  


  

  

   


10.8(c)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 1998 Broad Based Incentive Stock Plan, as amended on   February 3, 2000, and further amended on February 1, 2001 and   January 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.4(c) to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K   for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).  


  

  

   


10.8(d)* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 1998 Broad Based Incentive Stock Plan, as amended on   February 3, 2000, and further amended on February 1, 2001,   January 10, 2002 and December 12, 2002 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.4(d) to the Company’s Annual Report on   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).  


  

  

   


10.9* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated   on December 31, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 99.13 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.10* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).  


  

  

   


10.11* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2012).   


  

  

   


10.12* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2010) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10   to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,   2009).  


  

  

   


10.13* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2009) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.14* 

  

Modification   to Option Agreements (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11   to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.15* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2008) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2007)  


  

  

   


10.16* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2007) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2006)  


  

  

   


10.17* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2005 and 2006) (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   January 12, 2005).  


  

  

   


10.18* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2004) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2003).  


  

  

   


10.19* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2003) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).  


  

  

   


10.20* 

  

Form of   Employee Option Agreement (2002) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2001).  


  

  

   


10.21* 

  

Form of   Retainer Fee Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors (2000-2002)   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 of the Company’s Annual   Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000).  


  

  

   


10.22* 

  

Form of   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2012).  


  

  

   


10.23* 

  

Form of   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2010) (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.22   to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,   2009).  


  

  

   


10.24* 

  

Form of   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (2009) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.24 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).   
 
21





 



10.25* 

  

Form of   Performance Based Award Agreement (2012) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 26,   2012).  


  

  

   


10.26* 

  

Form of   Performance Based Award Agreement (2010) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.28 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.27* 

  

Form of   Performance Based Award Agreement (2009) (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 10.32 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.28* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, Effective as of   January 1, 2005, Amended and Restated as of December 31, 2008   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.14 to Hexcel’s Current   Report on Form 8-K dated January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.29* 

  

Amended   and Restated Employment Agreement between Hexcel Corporation and David E.   Berges, dated December 31, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 99.1 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.30(a)* 

  

Employee   Option Agreement dated as of July 30, 2001 between Hexcel Corporation   and David E. Berges (incorporated by reference herein to   Exhibit 10.37(a) to Hexcel’s Registration Statement on   Form S-4 (No. 333-66582), filed on August 2, 2001).  


  

  

   


10.30(b)* 

  

Employee   Option Agreement (performance-based option) dated as of July 30, 2001   between Hexcel Corporation and David E. Berges (incorporated by reference herein   to Exhibit 10.37(b) to Hexcel’s Registration Statement on   Form S-4 (No. 333-66582), filed on August 2, 2001).  


  

  

   


10.30(c)* 

  

Amended   and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement dated   December 31, 2008, between David E. Berges and Hexcel Corporation   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to Hexcel’s Current   Report on Form 8-K dated January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.30(d)* 

  

Letter   Agreement dated August 1, 2001 between Hexcel Corporation and David E.   Berges (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.37(e) to   Hexcel’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-66582), filed   on August 2, 2001).  


  

  

   


10.30(e)* 

  

Letter   Agreement dated August 28, 2001 between Hexcel Corporation and David E.   Berges (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s   Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,   2001).  


  

  

   


10.31* 

  

Supplemental   Executive Retirement Agreement dated October 28, 2009, between Nick L.   Stanage and Hexcel Corporation (incorporated herein by reference to   Exhibit 99.1 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated   October 28, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.31(a)* 

  

Employment   and Severance Agreement between Hexcel Corporation and Nick L. Stanage, dated   October 28, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.2   to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2009). .  


  

  

   


10.31(b)* 

  

Form of   Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, to be entered into on November 9, 2009,   by and between Hexcel Corporation and Nick L. Stanage (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K   dated October 28, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.31(c)* 

  

Letter   Agreement, dated October 28, 2009, by and between Hexcel Corporation and   Nick L. Stanage (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to   Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.32* 

  

Amended   and Restated Executive Severance Agreement between Hexcel Corporation and   Wayne C. Pensky, dated December 31, 2008 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 99.4 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K   dated January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.32(a)* 

  

Amended   and Restated Executive Deferred Compensation Agreement between Hexcel   Corporation and Wayne C. Pensky, dated December 31, 2007 (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Hexcel’s Current Report on   Form 8-K dated January 7, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.33* 

  

Amended   and Restated Executive Severance Agreement between Hexcel Corporation and Ira   J. Krakower, dated December 31, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference   to Exhibit 99.5 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated    
 
22





 



  

  

January 7,   2009).  


  

  

   


10.33(a)* 

  

Amended   and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement dated   December 31, 2008, between Ira J. Krakower and Hexcel Corporation (incorporated   herein by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to Hexcel’s Current Report on   Form 8-K dated January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.34* 

  

Amended   and Restated Executive Severance Agreement between Hexcel Corporation and   Robert G. Hennemuth, dated December 31, 2008 (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 99.6 to Hexcel’s Current Report on Form 8-K   dated January 7, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.34(a)* 

  

Amended   and Restated Executive Deferred Compensation Agreement between Hexcel   Corporation and Robert G. Hennemuth, dated December 31, 2007   (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to Hexcel’s Current   Report on Form 8-K dated January 7, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.35* 

  

Director   Compensation Program, as of June 30, 2010 (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit 10.38 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the   fiscal year ended December 31, 2010).  


  

  

   


10.36* 

  

Hexcel   Corporation 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated herein by   reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the Company’s Annual Report on   Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009).  


  

  

   


21 

  

Subsidiaries   of the Company.  


  

  

   


23 

  

Consent   of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  


  

  

   


24 

  

Power   of Attorney (included on signature page).  


  

  

   


31.1 

  

Certification   of Chief Executive Officer, Pursuant to Section 302 of the   Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  


  

  

   


31.2 

  

Certification   of Chief Financial Officer, Pursuant to Section 302 of the   Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  


  

  

   


32 

  

Certification   of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the   Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  


  

  

   


101 

  

The following materials from the Hexcel   Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2010, formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language   (XBRL): (i) the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations,   (ii) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) Condensed   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (iv) related notes, tagged as   blocks of text.   
 



* Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
23





 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 



  

  

Hexcel Corporation  


  

  

   


  

  

   


February 7, 2012 

  

/s/ DAVID E. BERGES  


(Date) 

  

David E. Berges  


  

  

Chief Executive Officer   
 
KNOWN TO ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints each of David E. Berges, Wayne C. Pensky and Ira J. Krakower, individually, his attorney-in-fact, with the power of substitution, for him in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this report, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorney-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 



Signature 

  

Title 

  

Date  


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ DAVID E. BERGES 

  

Chairman of the 

  

February 7,   2012  


(David E. Berges) 

  

Board of Directors and 

  

   


  

  

Chief Executive Officer 

  

   


  

  

(Principal Executive Officer) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ WAYNE PENSKY 

  

Senior Vice President and 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Wayne Pensky) 

  

Chief Financial Officer 

  

   


  

  

(Principal Financial Officer) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ KIMBERLY HENDRICKS 

  

Vice President, Corporate Controller and 

  

   


(Kimberly Hendricks) 

  

Chief Accounting Officer 

  

February 7,   2012  


  

  

(Principal Accounting Officer) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ JOEL S. BECKMAN 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Joel S. Beckman) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ LYNN BRUBAKER 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Lynn Brubaker) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ JEFFREY C. CAMPBELL 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Jeffrey C. Campbell) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ SANDRA L. DERICKSON 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Sandra L. Derickson) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ W. KIM FOSTER 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(W. Kim Foster) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ THOMAS A. GENDRON 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Thomas A. Gendron) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ JEFFREY A. GRAVES 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(Jeffrey A. Graves) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ DAVID C. HILL 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(David C. Hill) 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

   


/s/ DAVID L. PUGH 

  

Director 

  

February 7,   2012  


(David L. Pugh) 

  

  

  

    
 
24





 
Selected Financial Data
 
The following table summarizes selected financial data as of and for the five years ended December 31:
 



(In millions, except per share data) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

2008 

  

2007(a) 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Results of Operations: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

1,392.4 

  

$ 

1,173.6 

  

$ 

1,108.3 

  

$ 

1,324.9 

  

$ 

1,171.1 

   


Cost of sales  

  

1,050.3 

  

891.0 

  

859.8 

  

1,035.7 

  

888.1 

   


Gross margin  

  

342.1 

  

282.6 

  

248.5 

  

289.2 

  

283.0 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Selling, general and administrative expenses  

  

120.5 

  

118.5 

  

107.2 

  

112.9 

  

114.0 

   


Research and technology expenses  

  

32.6 

  

30.8 

  

30.1 

  

31.4 

  

34.2 

   


Business consolidation and restructuring expenses  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

3.8 

  

7.3 

   


Other (income) expense, net  

  

(3.0 

) 

3.5 

  

7.5 

  

10.2 

  

12.6 

   


Operating income  

  

192.0 

  

129.8 

  

103.7 

  

130.9 

  

114.9 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest expense, net  

  

11.6 

  

23.2 

  

26.1 

  

20.2 

  

22.5 

   


Non-operating expense, net  

  

4.9 

  

6.8 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Income from continuing operations before income taxes,   equity in earnings and discontinued operations  

  

175.5 

  

99.8 

  

77.6 

  

110.7 

  

92.4 

   


Provision for income taxes  

  

41.6 

  

22.9 

  

22.0 

  

15.6 

  

33.4 

   


Income from continuing operations before equity in   earnings and discontinued operations  

  

133.9 

  

76.9 

  

55.6 

  

95.1 

  

59.0 

   


Equity in earnings from and gain on sale of   investments in affiliated companies  

  

1.6 

  

0.5 

  

0.7 

  

16.1 

  

4.3 

   


Net income from continuing operations  

  

135.5 

  

77.4 

  

56.3 

  

111.2 

  

63.3 

   


Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax    

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(2.0 

)  


Net income  

  

$ 

135.5 

  

$ 

77.4 

  

$ 

56.3 

  

$ 

111.2 

  

$ 

61.3 

   


Basic net income (loss) per common share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Continuing operations  

  

$ 

1.37 

  

$ 

0.79 

  

$ 

0.58 

  

$ 

1.15 

  

$ 

0.67 

   


Discontinued operations  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(0.02 

)  


Net income per common share  

  

$ 

1.37 

  

$ 

0.79 

  

$ 

0.58 

  

$ 

1.15 

  

$ 

0.65 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Diluted net income (loss) per common share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Continuing operations  

  

$ 

1.35 

  

$ 

0.77 

  

$ 

0.57 

  

$ 

1.14 

  

$ 

0.66 

   


Discontinued operations  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(0.02 

)  


Net income per common share  

  

$ 

1.35 

  

$ 

0.77 

  

$ 

0.57 

  

$ 

1.14 

  

$ 

0.64 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Weighted-average shares outstanding: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

98.8 

  

97.6 

  

96.9 

  

96.4 

  

94.7 

   


Diluted  

  

100.7 

  

99.9 

  

98.2 

  

97.6 

  

96.5 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Financial Position: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total assets  

  

$ 

1,376.1 

  

$ 

1,258.1 

  

$ 

1,246.6 

  

$ 

1,210.3 

  

$ 

1,060.5 

   


Working capital  

  

$ 

276.8 

  

$ 

291.8 

  

$ 

259.4 

  

$ 

256.5 

  

$ 

190.7 

   


Long-term notes payable and capital lease   obligations  

  

$ 

238.3 

  

$ 

304.6 

  

$ 

358.8 

  

$ 

392.5 

  

$ 

315.5 

   


Stockholders’ equity (b)  

  

$ 

802.2 

  

$ 

659.4 

  

$ 

575.6 

  

$ 

509.2 

  

$ 

427.6 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Other Data: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Depreciation  

  

$ 

55.3 

  

$ 

53.2 

  

$ 

46.6 

  

$ 

43.9 

  

$ 

39.8 

   


Accrual basis capital expenditures  

  

$ 

184.5 

  

$ 

60.7 

  

$ 

85.7 

  

$ 

177.3 

  

$ 

120.6 

   


Shares outstanding at year-end, less treasury   stock  

  

98.8 

  

97.4 

  

96.6 

  

96.4 

  

95.8 

    

 


(a)          All financial data presented has been restated to report our U.S. EBGI business and our Architectural business in France as discontinued operations.  These businesses were sold in 2007.
(b)         No cash dividends were declared per share of common stock during any of the five years ended December 31, 2011.
 
25





 
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Business Overview
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In millions, except per share data) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

1,392.4 

  

$ 

1,173.6 

  

$ 

1,108.3 

   


Gross margin %  

  

24.6 

% 

24.1 

% 

22.4 

%  


Other (income) expense, net  

  

$ 

(3.0 

) 

$ 

3.5 

  

$ 

7.5 

   


Operating income (a)  

  

$ 

192.0 

  

$ 

129.8 

  

$ 

103.7 

   


Operating income %  

  

13.8 

% 

11.1 

% 

9.4 

%  


Interest expense, net  

  

$ 

11.6 

  

$ 

23.2 

  

$ 

26.1 

   


Non-operating other expenses  

  

$ 

4.9 

  

$ 

6.8 

  

$ 

— 

   


Provision for income taxes  

  

$ 

41.6 

  

$ 

22.9 

  

$ 

22.0 

   


Equity in earnings from investments in   affiliated companies  

  

$ 

1.6 

  

$ 

0.5 

  

$ 

0.7 

   


Net income (a)  

  

$ 

135.5 

  

$ 

77.4 

  

$ 

56.3 

   


Diluted net income per common share  

  

$ 

1.35 

  

$ 

0.77 

  

$ 

0.57 

    
 



(a) The Company uses non-GAAP financial measures, including operating income adjusted for items included in other (income) expense, net, net income adjusted for items included in non-operating expenses, the effective tax rate adjusted for certain out of period items and free cash flow. Management believes these non-GAAP measurements are meaningful to investors because they provide a view of Hexcel with respect to ongoing operating results and comparisons to prior periods. These adjustments represent significant charges or credits that are important to an understanding of Hexcel’s overall operating results in the periods presented. Such non-GAAP measurements are not determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and should not be viewed as an alternative to GAAP measures of performance. Reconciliations to adjusted operating income and adjusted net income are provided below:
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


GAAP operating income  

  

$ 

192.0 

  

$ 

129.8 

  

$ 

103.7 

   


Other (income) expense, net (1)  

  

(3.0 

) 

3.5 

  

7.5 

   


Adjusted operating income   (Non-GAAP)  

  

$ 

189.0 

  

$ 

133.3 

  

$ 

111.2 

    
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


GAAP net income  

  

$ 

135.5 

  

$ 

77.4 

  

$ 

56.3 

   


Tax adjustments (2)  

  

(11.3 

) 

(6.4 

) 

— 

   


Other (income) expense, net of tax (1)  

  

(2.3 

) 

2.2 

  

5.6 

   


Non-operating expense, net of tax (3)  

  

3.0 

  

4.3 

  

— 

   


Adjusted net income (Non-GAAP)  

  

$ 

124.9 

  

$ 

77.5 

  

$ 

61.9 

    
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net cash provided by operating   activities  

  

$ 

170.5 

  

$ 

126.5 

  

$ 

172.8 

   


Capital expenditures and deposits for capital   purchases 

  

(158.0 

) 

(48.8 

) 

(98.4 

)  


Free cash flow  

  

$ 

12.5 

  

$ 

77.7 

  

$ 

74.4 

    
 



(1) Other (income) expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a $5.7 million benefit from the curtailment of a pension plan and other expense of $2.7 million for the increase in environmental reserves primarily for remediation of a manufacturing facility sold in 1986. 2010 includes a $3.5 million increase in environmental reserves primarily for remediation of a manufacturing facility sold in 1986.  2009 includes $5.6 million in legal settlement expense, $1.1 million in environmental expenses for previously sold operations offset by a $1.1 million adjustment to a prior year gain on sale of operations.
 
(2) Tax adjustments in 2011 include a $5.8 million benefit from the reversal of valuation allowances against net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards and a tax benefit from the release of $5.5 million of reserves primarily for uncertain tax positions as a result of an audit settlement.  Tax adjustments in 2010 include a $2.9 million benefit from the reversal of valuation allowances
 
26





 
against U.S. deferred tax assets and a $3.5 million benefit from New Clean Energy Manufacturing Tax Credits awarded in January 2010 for qualifying capital investments made in our U.S. wind energy facility in 2009.  See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further detail.
 
(3) Non-operating expense, net of tax, in 2011 includes $3.0 million after tax expense for the accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs and expensing of the call premium from the redemption of $150 million of 6.75% senior subordinated notes.  Non-operating expense, net of tax, includes $4.3 million after tax expense related to the acceleration of deferred financing costs due to the refinancing of our Senior Secured Credit Facility in 2010.
 
Business Trends
 
Our total sales in 2011 increased 19% over 2010.  In constant currency and by market, our Commercial Aerospace sales increased 27%, Space & Defense sales increased 2%, while our Industrial sales increased 9%.  The Commercial Aerospace market represents 59% of our sales, followed by Space & Defense at 23% and Industrial at 18%.
 
·                  In 2011, our Commercial Aerospace sales increased by 28% (27% in constant currency).  Airbus and Boeing related sales, which comprised 82% of our Commercial Aerospace sales, were up over 25% led by new programs and increased production for their legacy programs.  Almost all of our Commercial Aerospace sales are for new aircraft as we have only nominal aftermarket sales.  The regional and business aircraft market, which account for 18% of Commercial Aerospace sales, increased 34% for the year. These sales were $150 million for the year, down from the 2008 peak of $200 million but about 50% above the trough late in 2009.
 
·                  Airbus and Boeing combined deliveries in 2011 were 1,011 aircraft, exceeding the previous high of 979 in 2009.  The demand for new commercial aircraft is principally driven by two factors.  The first is airline passenger traffic (measured by revenue passenger miles) and the second is the replacement rate for existing aircraft.  The International Air Transport Association (IATA) estimates 2011 revenue passenger miles were 5.9% higher than 2010.  Combined orders for 2011 were 2,220 planes, more than double the 1,104 orders for 2010.  Backlog at the end of 2011 increased to 8,208 planes, about eight years of backlog at the current delivery pace.  Airbus and Boeing have announced rate increases for each of their current production models in the past year.  Based on Airbus and Boeing projections, 2012 deliveries are estimated to be over 1,150 aircraft.
 
·                  Overall the Commercial Aerospace industry continues to utilize a greater proportion of advanced composite materials with each new generation of aircraft.  These new programs include the A380, A350, B787, and the B747-8.  The Airbus A380 (“A380”) had 26 deliveries in 2011 and a cumulative total of 67 deliveries through December 31, 2011.  The A380 has 23% composite content by weight and has more Hexcel material used in its production than any aircraft currently in service, over $3 million per plane.  At December 31, 2011, Airbus had a backlog of 186 orders for the A380.  Hexcel has been awarded a contract to supply carbon fiber composite materials for major primary structures for the A350, which Airbus has indicated will have more than 50% composite content by weight.  This contract covers the entire family of the A350 aircraft through 2025 and as the design and usage of various composite materials have yet to be finalized, the amount of revenue this award will generate has not yet been determined.  In addition, there will be opportunities for additional Hexcel products for the plane which we are actively pursuing.  We expect that our content of materials per A350 will exceed the amount we have on the A380.  As of December 31, 2011, Airbus has received 537 orders for the A350, which it projects will enter into service in 2014. As of December 31, 2011, Boeing had recorded 857 orders for its B787 aircraft.  The B787 has about 52% composite content by weight, including composite wings and fuselage, compared to the 11% composite content used in the construction of its B777 aircraft and 6% for the B767 the aircraft it is primarily replacing.  The B787 entered into service in September 2011.  Hexcel has $1.3 million to $1.6 million of content per plane, depending upon which engines are used.  While the B747-8 is structurally an aluminum intensive aircraft, new engines and nacelles provide Hexcel with the opportunity for significant additional revenues.  The freighter version of the B747-8 went into service in October 2011 and the passenger version is expected in 2012. The B747-8 has slightly more Hexcel content per plane than the B787.  Our sales on these four new programs comprised more than 25% of our total Commercial Aerospace sales and we expect them to represent an increasing percent of our Commercial Aerospace sales in the future.
 
·                  In addition to the new programs discussed above, both Airbus and Boeing have announced new versions of their narrowbody planes that will have new engines.  Airbus’ A320neo is expected to enter service in 2015, while the Boeing’s B737 MAX is expected to enter service in 2017.  Both of these aircraft are expected to provide opportunities for Hexcel to increase its content on these new programs.
 
·                  Our regional and business aircraft sales of $150 million increased 34% in 2011. This segment of the market was significantly impacted by the general deterioration of the global economy and announced production cut-backs in 2009, and declined about 40% in 2009 from the peak 2008 sales.
 
27





 
·                  Our Space & Defense constant currency sales increased 2.0% over 2010.  Rotorcraft sales continue to be strong and we continue to benefit from our extensive qualifications to supply composite materials and structures. Numerous new helicopter programs in development, as well as upgrade or retrofit programs, have an increased reliance on Composite Materials products such as carbon fiber, prepregs, and honeycomb core to improve blade performance.  Key programs include the V-22 (Osprey) tilt rotor aircraft, the Blackhawk, the C-17, the F-35 (joint strike fighter or JSF), F/A-18E/F (Hornet), the European Fighter Aircraft (Typhoon), the NH90, the S76, the Tiger helicopters and the EADS A400M military transport.  In addition, our Engineered Products segment provides specialty value added services such as machining, sub-assembly, and even full blade manufacturing.
 
·                  Our Industrial sales increased by 14% (9% in constant currency) in 2011 from 2010.  Industrial sales include wind energy, recreation, and transportation and general industrial applications, with wind being the largest submarket.  Excluding wind energy sales, the rest of the Industrial sales grew almost 5% as compared to 2010.
 
·                  Wind energy revenues for 2011 were up more than 15%, in constant currency over 2010 which suffered from inventory corrections by our largest wind customer (Vestas).  Our wind sales grew sequentially in each quarter of 2011.
 
We are well positioned for 2012 with large backlogs at the end of 2011 for our key commercial aerospace and wind customers.  Our current expectations are that total revenues for 2012 will be in the range of $1,500 million to $1,600 million, on a constant currency basis, generating diluted earnings per share of $1.33 to $1.45.  We expect capital expenditures to be $250 million to $275 million which will be funded through cash from operating activities, cash on hand and available borrowings under the revolver facility.
 
Results of Operations
 
2011 was a record performance year for the company.  Our sales of nearly $1.4 billion were $67.5 million, or 5%, higher than our previous high in 2008, our adjusted operating income of $189.0 million (or 13.6% of sales) was 30% higher than our previous high of $144.9 million in 2008, and our adjusted net income of $124.9 million was 57% higher than our previous high of $79.7 million in 2008.
 
We have two reportable segments: Composite Materials and Engineered Products.  Although these segments provide customers with different products and services, they often overlap within three end business markets: Commercial Aerospace, Space & Defense and Industrial.  Therefore, we also find it meaningful to evaluate the performance of our segments through the three end business markets.  Further discussion and additional financial information about our segments may be found in Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Net Sales:  Consolidated net sales of $1,392.4 million for 2011 were $218.8 million higher than the $1,173.6 million of net sales for 2010.  The sales increase in 2011 reflects increased volume in Commercial Aerospace driven by new aircraft programs and increased build rates.  Consolidated net sales of $1,173.6 million for 2010 were $65.3 million higher than the $1,108.3 million of net sales for 2009, due to volume increases in Commercial Aerospace.  Had the same U.S. dollar, British Pound Sterling and Euro exchange rates applied in 2010 as in 2011 (“in constant currency”), consolidated net sales for 2011 would have been $203.4 million, or 17.1%, higher than 2010.  In constant currency, consolidated net sales for 2010 would have been $76.8 million, or 7.0% higher than 2009 net sales.
 
The following table summarizes net sales to third-party customers by segment and end market segment in 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 



(In millions) 

  

Commercial   Aerospace 

  

Space &   Defense 

  

Industrial 

  

Total 

   


2011 Net Sales 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Composite Materials  

  

$ 

586.1 

  

$ 

241.3 

  

$ 

247.1 

  

$ 

1,074.5 

   


Engineered Products  

  

237.4 

  

78.1 

  

2.4 

  

317.9 

   


Total  

  

$ 

823.5 

  

$ 

319.4 

  

$ 

249.5 

  

$ 

1,392.4 

   


  

  

59 

% 

23 

% 

18 

% 

100 

%  


2010 Net Sales 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Composite Materials  

  

$ 

459.4 

  

$ 

229.3 

  

$ 

215.8 

  

$ 

904.5 

   


Engineered Products  

  

185.3 

  

81.2 

  

2.6 

  

269.1 

   


Total  

  

$ 

644.7 

  

$ 

310.5 

  

$ 

218.4 

  

$ 

1,173.6 

   


  

  

55 

% 

26 

% 

19 

% 

100 

%  


2009 Net Sales 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Composite Materials  

  

$ 

384.7 

  

$ 

220.5 

  

$ 

251.3 

  

$ 

856.5 

   


Engineered Products  

  

171.5 

  

78.9 

  

1.4 

  

251.8 

   


Total  

  

$ 

556.2 

  

$ 

299.4 

  

$ 

252.7 

  

$ 

1,108.3 

   


  

  

50 

% 

27 

% 

23 

% 

100 

%   
 
28





 
Commercial Aerospace:  Net sales to the Commercial Aerospace market segment increased $178.8 million or 27.7% to $823.5 million for 2011 as compared to net sales of $644.7 million for 2010; 2010 net sales increased by $88.5 million to $644.7 million as compared to net sales of $556.2 million for 2009. In constant currency, net sales to the Commercial Aerospace market segment increased $175.7 million, or 27.1% in 2011 and increased $91.4 million or 16.5% in 2010.  Net sales of the Composite Materials segment to the Commercial Aerospace market were $126.7 million higher, up 27.6 % from 2010 and up $74.7 million from 2009 to 2010.  Net sales of the Engineered Products segment to the Commercial Aerospace market increased by $52.1 million or 28.1% to $237.4 million in 2011 and increased by $13.8 million or 8.0% to $185.3 million in 2010.
 
In 2011, sales for Airbus and Boeing programs increased 26% over the prior year, as we experienced additional demand for up-coming line-rate increases, as well as increase in new aircraft programs (A380, A350, B787 and B747-8).  Sales for the regional and business aircraft market increased 34% over 2010.
 
The sales growth in 2010 over 2009 primarily came from new aircraft programs, which accounted for over 80% of the increase in Commercial Aerospace sales for the year.  Sales for Boeing programs increased 25% and Airbus program sales increased 19% over the prior year. Sales for the regional and business aircraft market were about 7% lower in 2010 as compared to 2009
 
Space & Defense: Net sales of $319.4 million for 2011 increased 2.9% as compared to $310.5 million in 2010.  Net sales of $310.5 million for 2010 increased 3.7% as compared to $299.4 million in 2009.  In 2011, net sales in constant currency, increased $6.2 million or 2.0%; in 2010 the increase was $13.5 million or 4.5%.  We continue to benefit from our ability to supply composite materials and, in some cases, composite structures to a broad range of military aircraft and rotorcraft programs.  About half of our Space & Defense sales are comprised of rotorcraft programs, including commercial and military programs from the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
 
Industrial:  Net sales of $249.5 million for 2011 increased by $31.1 million, or 14.2%, compared to net sales of $218.4 million in 2010.  In constant currency, net sales to the Industrial market segment increased $21.5 million or 9.4% in 2011 and decreased $28.1 million or 11.4% in 2010. Wind energy, the largest submarket in this segment, sales increased more than 15% in 2011 compared to 2010.  This submarket experienced a more than 20% decline in constant currency in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to inventory corrections at our largest wind energy customer, Vestas.  Sales to automotive, recreation and other general industrial markets were up modestly in 2011.  In 2010, we saw some recovery of sales to automotive, recreation and other general industrial markets as these submarkets were coming off their lowest sales levels in years, reflecting both weak markets and selective portfolio pruning.
 
Gross Margin: Gross margin for 2011 was $342.1 million or 24.6% of net sales as compared to $282.6 million, or 24.1% of net sales in 2010. The increase reflected higher volume, factory productivity, cost reduction initiatives and favorable product mix.  Exchange rates had a minor unfavorable impact on gross margin percentage in 2011 and contributed about 40 basis points to the gross margin percentage improvement in 2010 as compared to 2009. Gross margin for 2009 was $248.5 million, or 22.4% of net sales.
 
Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”) Expenses:  SG&A expenses were $120.5 million or 8.7% of net sales for 2011 and $118.5 million, or 10.1% of net sales for 2010, and $107.2 million or 9.7% of net sales for 2009.  SG&A spending remained relatively flat compared to 2010 as inflation and modest headcount increases were offset by lower legal and other expenses. The increase in 2010 expenses was primarily driven by higher variable compensation due to the Company’s performance.
 
Research and Technology (“R&T”) Expenses: R&T expenses for 2011 were $32.6 million or 2.3% of net sales, $30.8 million or 2.6% of net sales in 2010 and $30.1 million, or 2.7% of 2009 net sales.  Spending has increased moderately over the past couple of years to support the growing business.
 
Other (Income) Expense, Net:  Other (income) expense, net for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes a $5.7 million benefit from the curtailment of a pension plan, partially offset by other expense of $2.7 million for the increase in environmental reserves primarily for remediation of a manufacturing facility sold in 1986.  Other expense of $3.5 million in 2010 was for additional environmental reserves related to a manufacturing facility sold in 1986.  For 2009, other expense reflects a $7.5 million charge related to a licensing agreement, settling a patent litigation matter.
 
Operating Income: Operating income for 2011 was $192.0 million compared with operating income of $129.8 million for 2010 and $103.7 million for 2009.  Operating income as a percent of sales was 13.8%, 11.1% and 9.4% in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Higher sales volume and good cost control drove the increase in operating margin in 2011 and 2010.
 
29

 




 
One of the Company’s performance measures is operating income adjusted for other (income) expense, which is a non-GAAP measure. Adjusted operating income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $189 million, $133 million and $111 million or 13.6%, 11.4% and 10.0%, as a percentage of net sales, respectively.  A reconciliation to adjusted operating income is provided on page 26.
 
Almost all of the Company’s sales and costs are either in U.S. dollars, Euros or GBP, and approximately one-quarter of our sales are in Euros or GBP.  In addition, much of our European Commercial Aerospace business has sales denominated in dollars and costs denominated in all three currencies.  The net impact is that as the dollar weakens against the Euro and the GBP, sales will increase while operating income will decrease.  We have an active hedging program to minimize the impact on operating income, but our operating income as a percentage of net sales is affected.  Our 2011 operating income percentage was slightly unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange rates and in 2010 our operating income percentage was approximately 40 basis points better than 2009 due to exchange rates.
 
Operating income for the Composite Materials segment increased $54.9 million or 39.3% to $194.5 million, as compared to $139.6 million for 2010.  The increase in operating income is the result of higher volume, favorable sales mix and factory productivity and cost reduction initiatives.  Operating income for the Engineered Products segment increased by $5.9 million compared with 2010 to $51.6 million, due to the higher sales volume.
 
We did not allocate corporate net operating expenses of $54.1 million, $55.5 million and $43.7 million to segments in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  The increase in Corporate and Other expense in 2010 was primarily related to higher variable compensation expense.  As discussed above, 2011 had $3.0 million of other income and 2010 and 2009 had $3.5 million and $7.5 million, respectively, of other expenses included in Corporate and Other.
 
Interest Expense:  Interest expense was $11.6 million for 2011, and $23.2 million for 2010, and $26.1 million for 2009.  The decrease in 2011 was due to the refinancing in July 2011 of our Senior Revolving Credit Facility and the February 2011 bond redemption.  We exclude forward points from the effectiveness assessment of our forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges and record them to interest expense.  This resulted in a $1.4 million reduction to interest expense in 2011.  The decrease in 2010 interest expense was due to the refinancing in July 2010 of our Senior Revolving Credit Facility, lower average borrowings and a $1.4 million reversal of interest on liabilities for uncertain tax positions.
 
Provision for Income Taxes:   Our 2011, 2010 and 2009 tax provision was $41.6 million, $22.9 million and $22.0 million for an effective tax rate of 23.7%, 22.9% and 28.4%, respectively.  The 2011 provision includes a $5.8 million benefit from the reversal of valuation allowances against net operating loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards and a tax benefit from the release of $5.5 million of reserves primarily for uncertain tax positions as a result of an audit settlement.  The 2010 provision includes a $2.9 million benefit from the reversal of valuation allowances against U.S. deferred tax assets and a $3.5 million benefit from New Clean Energy Manufacturing tax credits for qualifying investments made in 2009 in our U.S wind energy facility.  Excluding these items, the effective tax rate was 30.1% and 29.4%, respectively. We believe the adjusted effective tax rate, which is a non-GAAP measure, is meaningful since it provides insight to the tax rate of ongoing operations.
 
Equity in Earnings from Affiliated Companies:  Equity in earnings represents our portion of the earnings from our joint venture in Malaysia. For additional information, see Note 5 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Net Income:  Net income was $135.5 million, or $1.35 per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $77.4 million, or $0.77 per diluted common share for 2010 and $56.3 million or $0.57 per diluted share for 2009.  Strong sales volume, particularly in the commercial aerospace market, coupled with good cost control led the growth in earnings from 2009 through 2011.  Also see the above table for a reconciliation of GAAP net income from continuing operations to our adjusted “Non-GAAP” measure.
 
30





 
Significant Customers
 
Approximately 30%, 31%, and 27% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 net sales, respectively, were to Boeing and related subcontractors.  Of the 30% of sales to Boeing and its subcontractors in 2011, 25% related to Commercial Aerospace market applications and 5% related to Space & Defense market applications.  Approximately 27%, 24%, and 22% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 net sales, respectively, were to European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (“EADS”), including its business division Airbus Industrie (“Airbus”), and its subcontractors.  Of the 27% of sales to EADS and its subcontractors in 2011, 24% related to Commercial Aerospace market applications and 3% related to Space & Defense market applications.
 
Vestas Wind Systems A/S accounted for 12% of the Company’s total net sales in 2009.  All of these sales are included in the Composite Materials segment and are in the Industrial market.
 
Financial Condition
 
In 2011, we generated $12.5 million of free cash flow (cash provided by operating activities less cash paid for capital expenditures) and ended the year with total debt, net of cash, of $201.4 million.  In 2012, we expect our capital spending to be in the range of $250 million to $275 million to expand capacity in line with our outlook.  The capital spending will be funded through cash from operating activities, cash on hand and available borrowings under our credit facility.
 
We have a portfolio of derivatives related to currencies and interest rates.  We monitor our counterparties and we only use those rated A- or better.
 
Liquidity
 
Our cash on hand at December 31, 2011 was $49.5 million as compared to $117.2 million at December 31, 2010.  In 2011, we redeemed $150 million of our 6.75% senior subordinated notes at a call premium of 2.25%.  The redemption was funded by a $135 million add on to our senior credit facility and from cash on hand.  We repaid $57 million of the $135 million add on in 2011 using cash on hand. At December 31, 2011, we had $204.8 million borrowings available under our credit facility, in addition to the cash on hand.
 
Our total debt as of December 31, 2011 was $250.9 million, a decrease of $81.3 million from the December 31, 2010 balance.  The decrease was a result of a repayment of the senior credit facility using a portion of the cash on hand, as described above.  The level of available borrowing capacity fluctuates during the course of the year due to factors including capital expenditures, interest and variable compensation payments, changes to working capital, as well as timing of receipts and disbursements within the normal course of business.
 
Short-term liquidity requirements consist primarily of normal recurring operating expenses and working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements.  We expect to meet our short-term liquidity requirements through net cash from operating activities, cash on hand and our revolving credit facility.  As of December 31, 2011, long-term liquidity requirements consist primarily of obligations under our long-term debt obligations.  We do not have any significant required debt repayments until September 2014, and will be repaying the term loan at a rate of approximately $1.3 million per quarter with our next required payment due in March 2012, the quarterly payments increase to $2.5 million in September 2012.
 
Credit Facilities:  In February 2011, Hexcel Corporation expanded its $250 million senior secured credit facility (the “Facility”), to $385 million consisting of a $285 million revolving loan and a $100 million term loan.  At December 31, 2011, the amounts outstanding were $78 million on the revolving loan and $92.5 million on the term loan.  The Facility matures on July 9, 2015.  The interest rate on the Facility is LIBOR plus 2.75% and ranges down to LIBOR plus 2% depending upon the leverage ratio.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was less than 1.75, accordingly in 2011 the margin paid on our borrowing rate was 2%, and we expect that rate to continue in 2012.  The term loan was borrowed at closing and once repaid cannot be reborrowed.  The term loan is scheduled to be repaid at an initial rate of $1.3 million per quarter and approximately $2.5 million per quarter, beginning in September 2012, with two payments of $10.0 million in September 2014 and December 2014 and two final $25.0 million payments in March and June 2015.
 
The Facility permits us to issue letters of credit up to an aggregate amount of $40 million and allows us to draw up to $75 million in Euros.  Amounts drawn in Euros or any outstanding letters of credit reduce the amount available for borrowing under the revolving loan.  As of December 31, 2011, we had issued letters of credit totaling $2.2 million under the Facility.
 
The credit agreement contains financial and other covenants, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the incurrence of debt and the granting of liens, as well as the maintenance of an interest coverage ratio and a leverage ratio, and limitations on capital expenditures.  In accordance with the terms of the Facility, we are required to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 4.00 
 
31





 
(based on the ratio of EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, to interest expense) and may not exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.00 (based on the ratio of total debt to EBITDA) throughout the term of the Facility.  In addition, the Facility contains other terms and conditions such as customary representations and warranties, additional covenants and customary events of default.  As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all debt covenants and expect to remain in compliance. Terms of the Facility are further discussed in Note 6 to the accompanying financial statements.
 
We have a $12.0 million borrowing facility for working capital needs of our Chinese entity with an outstanding balance of $4.8 million at December 31, 2011.  It contains a $10.0 million revolving line of credit and a $2.0 factoring facility.  The factoring facility was not used in 2011.  These funds can only be used locally, and accordingly, we do not include this facility in our borrowing capacity disclosures.  The borrowing facility expires on September 6, 2012 and is guaranteed by Hexcel Corporation.
 
Operating Activities:  We generated $170.5 million in cash from operating activities during 2011, an increase of $44.0 million from 2010 primarily from higher earnings.  Cash generated from operating activities during 2010 was $126.5 million, a decrease of $46.3 million from 2009 primarily from higher working capital levels as sales volumes increased.  The large working capital swings reflected moving from 2009’s declining sales to 2010’s increased sales.
 
Cash generated from operating activities during 2009 was $172.8 million, predominantly from working capital improvements.  Decreases in accounts receivable and inventories contributed $70.2 million.  This was partly offset by decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $28.1 million and increases in other current assets.  The positive changes in working capital requirements were attributable to the decline in sales during the year along with strong collections of outstanding accounts receivable and improved inventory control.
 
Investing Activities:  Cash used for investing activities, primarily for capital expenditures, was $163.2 million in 2011 compared to $48.8 million in 2010 and $104.4 million in 2009.  We have increased our capital spending to expand capacity in line with our outlook, after delaying spending during 2010.
 
Financing Activities:  Financing activities used $74.4 million of cash as compared with $65.2 million in 2010 and $12.7 million in 2009.  On February 1, 2011, we redeemed $150 million of our $225 million 6.75% senior subordinated notes at a call premium of 2.25%.  The redemption was funded by the add-on to our senior secured credit facility, discussed above, plus cash on hand.  As a result of the redemption, we accelerated the unamortized financing costs of the senior subordinated notes redeemed and expensed the call premium incurring a pretax charge of $4.9 million (after tax of $0.03 per diluted share) in 2011. We repaid $57 million of the $135 million add on in 2011 using cash on hand.
 
Additionally, during 2010, we entered into approximately $98 million of interest rate swaps that trade the LIBOR on our term loan for a fixed rate at an average rate of 1.03%. These interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges to our term loan and expire by March 2014. Based on our leverage ratio at December 31, 2010, the interest rate for the term loan in 2011 was 1.03% plus 2.00%, or 3.03%.
 
In 2010, we refinanced our Senior Secured Credit Facility.  As discussed above, in February 2011 the Facility was expanded.  At the time of the 2010 refinancing, the new borrowings plus cash on hand were used to repay $134.1 million of term loans existing under the previous facility and $3.7 million of debt issuance costs related to the refinancing.  During 2010, we paid $1.4 million of debt issuance costs related to the add-on to our revolving credit facility and repaid $30.0 million of our previous Senior Secured Credit Facility with cash on hand.  This repayment included a $26.4 million mandatory prepayment based on 50% of the cash flow generated in 2010, as defined in the old agreement. In addition we borrowed $3.9 million from a line of credit associated with our operations in China.
 
In 2009, we also refinanced our Senior Secured Credit Facility and received $171.5 million of proceeds from a new term loan.  The borrowings were used to repay $167.0 million of term loans existing under the previous facility and $10.3 million of debt issuance costs related to the refinancing.
 
Financial Obligations and Commitments:  As of December 31, 2011, current maturities of notes payable and capital lease obligations were $12.6 million.  The next significant scheduled debt maturity will not occur until 2013, in the amount of $10.0 million.  Our next scheduled term loan payment of $1.3 million is due in March 2012.  We have a capital lease for a building which expires in 2021.  In addition, certain sales and administrative offices, data processing equipment and manufacturing equipment and facilities are leased under operating leases.
 
Total letters of credit issued and outstanding under the Senior Secured Credit Facility were $2.2 million as of December 31, 2011.
 
32





 
The following table summarizes the scheduled maturities as of December 31, 2011 of financial obligations and expiration dates of commitments for the years ended 2012 through 2016 and thereafter.
 



(In millions) 

  

2012 

  

2013 

  

2014 

  

2015 

  

2016 

  

Thereafter 

  

Total 

   


Senior secured credit facility — term B loan   due 2015 

  

$ 

7.5 

  

$ 

10.0 

  

$ 

25.0 

  

$ 

50.0 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

92.5 

   


Senior secured credit facility — Revolver due 2015 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

78.0 

  

— 

  

— 

  

78.0 

   


6.75% senior subordinated notes due 2015 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

73.5 

  

— 

  

— 

  

73.5 

   


Working capital facility 

  

4.8 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

4.8 

   


Capital leases and other 

  

0.3 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1.8 

  

2.1 

   


Subtotal 

  

12.6 

  

10.0 

  

25.0 

  

201.5 

  

— 

  

1.8 

  

250.9 

   


Operating leases 

  

11.0 

  

6.6 

  

6.1 

  

5.2 

  

2.3 

  

11.8 

  

43.0 

   


Total financial obligations 

  

$ 

23.6 

  

$ 

16.6 

  

$ 

31.1 

  

$ 

206.7 

  

$ 

2.3 

  

$ 

13.6 

  

$ 

293.9 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Letters of credit 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

2.2 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

2.2 

   


Interest payments 

  

9.9 

  

9.6 

  

9.2 

  

5.0 

  

— 

  

0.1 

  

33.8 

   


Estimated benefit plan contributions 

  

8.8 

  

11.8 

  

5.7 

  

22.5 

  

9.5 

  

32.1 

  

90.4 

   


Other (a) 

  

3.4 

  

1.0 

  

0.6 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

5.0 

   


Total commitments 

  

$ 

45.7 

  

$ 

39.0 

  

$ 

46.6 

  

$ 

236.4 

  

$ 

11.5 

  

$ 

45.8 

  

$ 

425.3 

    

 


(a) Other represents estimated spending for environmental matters at known sites.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had $12.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits.  This represents tax benefits associated with various tax positions taken, or expected to be taken, on domestic and international tax returns that have not been recognized in our financial statements due to uncertainty regarding their resolution.  The resolution or settlement of these tax positions with the taxing authorities is at various stages.  We are unable to make a reliable estimate of the eventual cash flows of the $12.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits.
 
For further information regarding our financial obligations and commitments, see Notes 6, 7, 8, 13 and 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared based upon the selection and application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes.  Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty.  Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment.  Actual results could differ from those estimates, and any such differences may be significant to the financial statements.  The accounting policies below are those we believe are the most critical to the preparation of our financial statements and require the most difficult, subjective and complex judgments.  Our other accounting policies are described in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Deferred Tax Assets
 
As of December 31, 2011 we have $76.8 million in net deferred tax assets consisting of deferred tax assets of $157.2 million offset by deferred tax liabilities of $41.0 million and a valuation allowance of $39.4 million (primarily related to net operating loss carryforwards in Luxembourg and China).  As of December 31, 2010, we had $85.0 million in net deferred tax assets consisting of deferred tax assets of $151.3 million offset by deferred tax liabilities of $29.8 million and a valuation allowance of $36.5 million.
 
The determination of the required valuation allowance and the amount, if any, of deferred tax assets to be recognized involves significant estimates regarding the timing and amount of reversal of taxable temporary differences, future taxable income and the implementation of tax planning strategies.  In particular, we are required to weigh both positive and negative evidence in determining whether a valuation allowance is required.  Positive evidence would include, for example, a strong earnings history, an event that will increase our taxable income through a continuing reduction in expenses, and tax planning strategies indicating an ability to realize deferred tax assets.  Negative evidence would include, for example, a history of operating losses and losses expected in future years.
 
33





 
The valuation allowance as of December 31, 2011 relates to certain net operating loss carryforwards of our foreign subsidiaries, general business credits, foreign tax credits, and state net operating loss carryforwards for which we have determined, based upon historical results and projected future book and taxable income levels, that a valuation allowance should continue to be maintained.
 
Uncertain Tax Positions
 
Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of $12.5 million at December 31, 2011 was $12.2 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact our annual effective tax rate. In addition, we recognize interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of interest expense and penalties as a component of income tax expense in the consolidated statements of operations. The Company recognized ($0.1) million, ($1.4) million, $0.2 million of interest expense (income) related to the above unrecognized tax benefits within interest expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The Company had accrued interest of approximately $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  During 2011 and 2010, we reversed interest of $0.2 million and $1.4 million respectively related to the unrecognized tax benefits.
 
We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states and foreign jurisdictions.  The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for prior years; however the U.S. tax returns have been audited through 2007.  Foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. Years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include Austria (2006 onward), Belgium (2009 onward), France (2009 onward), Spain (2004 onward) and UK (2009 onward).  We are currently under examination in various foreign jurisdictions.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had uncertain tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that amounts of unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change over the next year.  These uncertain tax positions relate to our tax returns from 2004 onward, some of which are currently under examination by certain European tax authorities.  During 2011, the Company settled an audit with foreign tax authorities in one of the jurisdictions under examination. The favorable settlement resulted in a reduction of uncertain tax benefits of approximately $5.5 million which was recognized in 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Company has not classified any of the unrecognized tax benefits as a current liability as it does not expect to settle any of the tax positions under examinations in various jurisdictions within the next twelve months.
 
We expect that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will continue to change in the next twelve months as a result of ongoing tax deductions, the resolution of audits and the passing of the statute of limitations.
 
Retirement and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
 
We maintain qualified defined benefit retirement plans covering certain current and former European employees, as well as nonqualified defined benefit retirement plans and a retirement savings plans covering certain eligible U.S. and European employees, and participate in a union sponsored multi-employer pension plan covering certain U.S. employees with union affiliations.  In addition, we provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to eligible U.S. retirees.
 
Under the retirement savings plans, eligible U.S. employees can contribute up to 75% of their compensation to an individual 401(k) retirement savings account.  We make matching contributions equal to 50% of employee contributions, not to exceed 3% of employee compensation.
 
We have defined benefit retirement plans in the United Kingdom, Belgium, France and Austria covering certain employees of our subsidiaries in those countries.  The defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom (the “U.K. Plan”), the largest of the European plans, was terminated in 2011 and replaced with a defined contribution plan.  We recorded a curtailment gain of $5.7 million (after tax gain of $0.04 per diluted share) to recognize previously unrecognized prior service credits.  As of December 31, 2011, 56% of the total assets in the U.K. Plan were invested in equities.  Equity investments are made with the objective of achieving a return on plan assets consistent with the funding requirements of the plan, maximizing portfolio return and minimizing the impact of market fluctuations on the fair value of the plan assets.  As a result of an annual review of historical returns and market trends, the expected long-term weighted average rate of return for the U.K. Plan for the 2012 plan year will be 6.5% and 4.4% for the other European Plans as a group.
 
We use actuarial models to account for our pension and postretirement plans, which require the use of certain assumptions, such as the expected long-term rate of return, discount rate, rate of compensation increase, healthcare cost trend rates, and retirement and mortality rates, to determine the net periodic costs of such plans.  These assumptions are reviewed and set annually at the beginning of each year.  In addition, these models use an “attribution approach” that generally spreads individual events, such as plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, over the service lives of the employees in the plan.  That is, employees render service over their service lives on a relatively smooth basis and therefore, the income statement effects of retirement and postretirement benefit plans are earned in, and should follow, the same pattern.
 
34





 
We use our actual return experience, future expectations of long-term investment returns, and our actual and targeted asset allocations to develop our expected rate of return assumption used in the net periodic cost calculations of our funded European defined benefit retirement plans.  Due to the difficulty involved in predicting the market performance of certain assets, there will almost always be a difference in any given year between our expected return on plan assets and the actual return.  Following the attribution approach, each year’s difference is amortized over a number of future years.  Over time, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns and therefore result in a pattern of income and expense recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees.
 
We annually set our discount rate assumption for retirement-related benefits accounting to reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments.  The discount rate assumption used to calculate net periodic retirement related costs for the European funded plans was 5.27% for 2011, 5.66% for 2010 and 5.96% for 2009, respectively.  The rate of compensation increase, which is another significant assumption used in the actuarial model for pension accounting, is determined by us based upon our long-term plans for such increases and assumed inflation.  For the postretirement health care and life insurance benefits plan, we review external data and its historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rates.  Retirement and mortality rates are based primarily on actual plan experience.
 
Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect the net periodic costs and recorded obligations in such future periods.  While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, significant changes in economic or other conditions, employee demographics, retirement and mortality rates, and investment performance may materially impact such costs and obligations.
 
For more information regarding our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, see Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Long-Lived Assets and Goodwill
 
We have significant long-lived assets.  We review these assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  The assessment of possible impairment is based upon our ability to recover the carrying value of the assets from the estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, before interest and taxes, of the related operations.  If these cash flows are less than the carrying value of such assets, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value.  The measurement of impairment requires estimates of these cash flows and fair value.  The calculation of fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows.  In determining fair value a considerable amount of judgment is required to determine discount rates, market premiums, financial forecasts, and asset lives.
 
In addition, we review goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired.  We have four reporting units within the Composite Materials segment, each of which are components that constitute a business for which discrete financial information is available and for which appropriate management regularly reviews the operating results.  Within the Engineered Products segment, the reporting unit is the segment as it comprises only a single component.  In accordance with the recently issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Testing Goodwill for Impairment, the Company used a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. In December 2011, the Company chose to adopt this ASU early and performed a qualitative assessment and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units were not less than their carrying values and it was not necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test.
 
Commitments and Contingencies
 
We are involved in litigation, investigations and claims arising out of the normal conduct of our business, including those relating to commercial transactions, environmental, employment, health and safety matters.  We estimate and accrue our liabilities resulting from such matters based upon a variety of factors, including the stage of the proceeding; potential settlement value; assessments by internal and external counsel; and assessments by environmental engineers and consultants of potential environmental liabilities and remediation costs.  We believe we have adequately accrued for these potential liabilities; however, facts and circumstances may change, such as new developments, or a change in approach, including a change in settlement strategy or in an environmental remediation plan, that could cause the actual liability to exceed the estimates, or may require adjustments to the recorded liability balances in the future.
 
Our estimate of liability as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) and our remaining costs associated with our responsibility to remediate the Lodi, New Jersey; Kent, Washington; and other sites are accrued in the consolidated balance sheets.  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our aggregate environmental related accruals were $5.0 million and $7.3 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 
 
35





 
2011 and 2010, $3.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively, was included in current other accrued liabilities, with the remainder included in other non-current liabilities.  As related to certain environmental matters, the accrual was estimated at the low end of a range of possible outcomes since no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount.  In 2011, if we had accrued for these matters at the high end of the range of possible outcomes, our accrual would have been $6.8 million at December 31, 2011.
 
These accruals can change significantly from period to period due to such factors as additional information on the nature or extent of contamination, the methods of remediation required, changes in the apportionment of costs among responsible parties and other actions by governmental agencies or private parties, or the impact, if any, of being named in a new matter.
 
Environmental remediation reserve activity for the three years ended December 31, 2011 was as follows:
 



  

  

For the year ended 

   


(In millions) 

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

  

December 31,   2009 

   


Beginning remediation accrual balance 

  

$ 

7.3 

  

$ 

8.3 

  

$ 

9.2 

   


Current period expenses 

  

3.4 

  

3.8 

  

1.9 

   


Cash expenditures 

  

(5.7 

) 

(4.8 

) 

(2.8 

)  


Ending remediation accrual balance 

  

$ 

5.0 

  

$ 

7.3 

  

$ 

8.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital expenditures for environmental matters 

  

$ 

4.1 

  

$ 

1.7 

  

$ 

4.8 

    
 
Market Risks
 
As a result of our global operating and financing activities, we are exposed to various market risks that may affect our consolidated results of operations and financial position.  These market risks include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in interest rates, which impact the amount of interest we must pay on certain debt instruments, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which impact the U.S. dollar value of transactions, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.  Our primary currency exposures are in Europe, where we have significant business activities.  To a lesser extent, we are also exposed to fluctuations in the prices of certain commodities, such as electricity, natural gas, aluminum, acrylonitrile and certain chemicals.
 
We attempt to net individual exposures, when feasible, taking advantage of natural offsets.  In addition, we employ or may employ interest rate swap agreements, cross-currency swap agreements and foreign currency forward exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging certain specifically identified interest rates and net currency exposures.  The use of these financial instruments is intended to mitigate some of the risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, but does not eliminate such risks.  We do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
 
Interest Rate Risks
 
Our long-term debt bears interest at both fixed and variable rates.  From time to time we have entered into interest rate swap agreements to change the underlying mix of variable and fixed interest rate debt.  These interest rate swap agreements have modified the percentage of total debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates.  Assuming a 10% favorable and a 10% unfavorable change in the underlying weighted average interest rates of our variable rate debt and swap agreements, interest expense for 2011 of $11.6 million would have decreased to $11.4 million and increased to $11.8 million, respectively.
 
Interest Rate Swaps
 
In 2011, we entered into approximately $98 million of interest rate swaps that trade the LIBOR on our term loan for a fixed rate at an average rate of 1.03%. These interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges to our term loan and expire by March 2014. The fair value of interest rate swap agreements is recorded in other assets or other long-term liabilities with a corresponding amount to Other Comprehensive Income. Based on our leverage ratio at December 31, 2011, the interest rate for the term loan is 1.03% plus 2.00%, or 3.03%.
 
Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swap Agreement
 
In September 2011, our cross-currency interest rate swap agreement, with a notional value of $63.4 million, to hedge a portion of our net Euro investment in Hexcel SASU (France) matured, resulting in a $5.2 million payment.  This payment is included in our cash used for investing activities on our consolidated statements of cash flows. To the extent it was effective, gains and losses were 
 
36





 
recorded as an offset in the cumulative translation account, the same account in which translation gains and losses on the investment in Hexcel France SA were recorded.  We received interest in U.S. dollars quarterly and paid interest in Euros on the same day.  U.S. interest was based on the three month LIBOR.  Euro interest was based on the three month EURIBOR.  The fair value of the swap at December 31, 2010 was a liability of $3.0 million.  Net charges to interest expense of $0.6 million and $0.3 million related to the interest coupons were recorded during 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The net amount of gains/losses included in the CTA adjustment during the reporting periods were a loss of $3.5 million, a gain of $5.4 million and a loss of $1.2 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Foreign Currency Exchange Risks
 
We operate nine manufacturing facilities in Europe, which generated approximately 46% of our 2011 consolidated net sales.  Our European business activities primarily involve three major currencies — the U.S. dollar, the British pound, and the Euro.  We also conduct business or have joint venture investments in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Japan, Australia and Russia, and sell products to customers throughout the world.
 
In 2011, our European subsidiaries had third-party sales of $650 million of which approximately 49% were denominated in U.S. dollars, 46% were denominated in Euros and 5% were denominated in British pounds.  While we seek to reduce the exposure of our European subsidiaries to their sales in non-functional currencies through the purchase of raw materials in the same currency as that of the product sale, the net contribution of these sales to cover the costs of the subsidiary in its functional currency will vary with changes in foreign exchange rates, and as a result, so will vary the European subsidiaries’ percentage margins and profitability.  For revenues denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary, changes in foreign currency exchange rates increase or decrease the value of these revenues in U.S. dollars but do not affect the profitability of the subsidiary in its functional currency.  The value of our investments in these countries could be impacted by changes in currency exchange rates over time, and could impact our ability to profitably compete in international markets.
 
We attempt to net individual functional currency positions of our various European subsidiaries, to take advantage of natural offsets and reduce the need to employ foreign currency forward exchange contracts.  We attempt to hedge some, but not necessarily all, of the net exposures of our European subsidiaries resulting from sales they make in non-functional currencies.  The benefit of such hedges varies with time and the foreign exchange rates at which the hedges are set.  For example, when the Euro strengthened against the U.S. dollar, the benefit of new hedges placed was much less than the value of hedges they replaced that were entered into when the U.S. dollar was stronger.  We seek to place additional foreign currency hedges when the dollar strengthens against the Euro or British pound.  We do not seek to hedge the value of our European subsidiaries’ functional currency sales and profitability in U.S. dollars.  We also enter into short-term foreign currency forward exchange contracts, usually with a term of ninety days or less, to hedge net currency exposures resulting from specifically identified transactions.  Consistent with the nature of the economic hedge provided by such contracts, any unrealized gain or loss would be offset by corresponding decreases or increases, respectively, of the underlying transaction being hedged.
 
We have performed a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2011 using a modeling technique that measures the changes in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar with all other variables held constant.  The analysis covers all of our foreign currency hedge contracts.  The sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have a $0.4 million impact on our results.  However, it should be noted that over time as the adverse movement (in our case a weaker dollar as compared to the Euro or the GBP) continues and new hedges are layered in at the adverse rate, the impact would be more significant.  For example, had we not had any hedges in place for 2011, a 10% adverse movement would have reduced our operating income by about $10 million.
 
Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts
 
A number of our European subsidiaries are exposed to the impact of exchange rate volatility between the U.S. dollar and the subsidiaries’ functional currencies, being either the Euro or the British Pound Sterling.  We entered into contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Euros and British Pound Sterling through May 2014.  The aggregate notional amount of these contracts was $168.9 million and $124.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The purpose of these contracts is to hedge a portion of the forecasted transactions of European subsidiaries under long-term sales contracts with certain customers.  These contracts are expected to provide us with a more balanced matching of future cash receipts and expenditures by currency, thereby reducing our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  For the three years ended December 31, 2011, hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial.  Cash flows associated with these contracts are classified within net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations.
 
37





 
The activity in “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” related to foreign currency forward exchange contracts for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Unrealized losses at beginning   of period  

  

$ 

(0.2 

) 

$ 

(1.4 

) 

$ 

(8.9 

)  


Gains (losses) reclassified to net sales  

  

(2.2 

) 

3.9 

  

4.3 

   


(Decrease) increase in fair value, net of tax  

  

(2.1 

) 

(2.7 

) 

3.2 

   


Unrealized losses at end of   period  

  

$ 

(4.5 

) 

$ 

(0.2 

) 

$ 

(1.4 

)   
 
Unrealized losses of $2.2 million recorded in “accumulated other comprehensive loss,” net of tax, as of December 31, 2011 are expected to be reclassified into earnings over the next twelve months as the hedged sales are recorded.  The impact of credit risk adjustments was immaterial for the three years.
 
In addition, non-designated foreign exchange forward contracts are used to hedge balance sheet exposures. The notional amounts outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were U.S. $149.0 million against EUR, and U.S. $85.9 million and GBP 1.0 million against EUR, respectively.  Any changes in fair value of these forward contracts are recorded in the consolidated statements of operations and were immaterial for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
Utility Price Risks
 
We have exposure to utility price risks as a result of volatility in the cost and supply of energy and in natural gas.  To minimize the risk, from time to time we enter into fixed price contracts at certain of our manufacturing locations for a portion of our energy usage.  Although these contracts would reduce the risk to us during the contract period, future volatility in the supply and pricing of energy and natural gas could have an impact on our future consolidated results of operations.
 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
 
New Accounting Pronouncements
 
Testing Goodwill for Impairment: In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Testing Goodwill for Impairment, which allows an entity to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. ASU 2011-08 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012; however, as permitted we have chosen early adoption in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income: In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which requires an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. ASU 2011-05 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012 and must be applied retrospectively. We expect to present comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements.  This is a change in presentation only and will not have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements: In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (Topic 820) — Fair Value Measurement, to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements, particularly for level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012 and must be applied prospectively. Given our immaterial amounts of assets and liabilities that require level 3 inputs we do not expect the impact of the adoption of ASU 2011-04 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
Balance Sheet Offsetting Disclosures:  In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities (Topic 210, Balance Sheet). The update requires new disclosures about balance sheet offsetting and related arrangements. For derivatives and financial assets and liabilities, the amendments require disclosure of gross asset and liability amounts, amounts offset on the balance sheet, and amounts subject to the offsetting requirements but not offset on the balance 
 
38





 
sheet. The guidance is effective December 1, 2013 and is to be applied retrospectively. This guidance does not amend the existing guidance on when it is appropriate to offset; the impact of the adoption of ASU 2011-11 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
39





 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 



Description 

  

Page  


Management’s   Responsibility for Consolidated Financial Statements 

  

41  


Management’s   Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

  

41  


Report   of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

  

42  


Consolidated   Financial Statements of Hexcel Corporation and Subsidiaries: 

  

   


Consolidated   Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 

  

43  


Consolidated Statements of Operations for each of the   three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

  

44  


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’   Equity and Comprehensive Income for each of the three years ended   December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

  

45  


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the   three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

  

46  


Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 

  

47-73  


Schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

  

74   
 
40





 
Management’s Responsibility for Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Hexcel management has prepared and is responsible for the consolidated financial statements and the related financial data contained in this report.  These financial statements, which include estimates, were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Management uses its best judgment to ensure that such statements reflect fairly the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Company.
 
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and monitors the financial reports and accounting practices of Hexcel.  These reports and practices are reviewed regularly by management and by our independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements.  The Audit Committee, composed solely of outside directors, meets periodically, separately and jointly, with management and the independent registered public accounting firm.
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 
Hexcel management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.  Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the company’s board of directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and includes those policies and procedures that:
 
·                        pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
 
·                        provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
 
·                        provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Hexcel management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.  In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  Based on our assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.
 
The effectiveness of Hexcel’s internal control over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2011, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report that appears on page 42.
 
41





 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Hexcel Corporation
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a) (1) present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Hexcel Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements, on the financial statement schedule, and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 



/s/   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  


   


   


Stamford,   Connecticut  


February 7,   2012   
 
42





 
Hexcel Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
As of December 31,
 



(In millions, except per share data) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Assets 

  

  

  

  

   


Current assets: 

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and cash equivalents  

  

$ 

49.5 

  

$ 

117.2 

   


Accounts receivable, net  

  

199.3 

  

173.9 

   


Inventories, net  

  

215.7 

  

169.9 

   


Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

  

59.8 

  

36.7 

   


Total current assets  

  

524.3 

  

497.7 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Property, plant and equipment, net  

  

722.1 

  

598.3 

   


Goodwill and other intangible assets  

  

57.4 

  

56.2 

   


Investments in affiliated companies  

  

21.7 

  

19.9 

   


Deferred tax assets  

  

33.0 

  

63.6 

   


Other assets  

  

17.6 

  

22.4 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Total assets  

  

$ 

1,376.1 

  

$ 

1,258.1 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Liabilities and Stockholders’   Equity 

  

  

  

  

   


Current liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

   


Short-term borrowings and current maturities of   long-term debt  

  

$ 

12.6 

  

$ 

27.6 

   


Accounts payable  

  

141.7 

  

83.0 

   


Accrued compensation and benefits  

  

57.5 

  

50.5 

   


Accrued interest  

  

2.7 

  

6.9 

   


Other accrued liabilities  

  

33.0 

  

37.9 

   


Total current liabilities  

  

247.5 

  

205.9 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Long-term notes payable and capital lease   obligations  

  

238.3 

  

304.6 

   


Long-term retirement obligations  

  

68.5 

  

61.9 

   


Other non-current liabilities  

  

19.6 

  

26.3 

   


Total liabilities  

  

573.9 

  

598.7 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Commitments and contingencies (see Note 14) 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Stockholders’ equity: 

  

  

  

  

   


Common stock, $0.01 par value, 200.0 shares of   stock authorized, 101.0 and 99.5 shares of stock issued at   December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively  

  

1.0 

  

1.0 

   


Additional paid-in capital  

  

589.2 

  

552.3 

   


Retained earnings  

  

283.9 

  

148.4 

   


Accumulated other comprehensive loss  

  

(39.8 

) 

(15.1 

)  


  

  

834.3 

  

686.6 

   


Less: Treasury stock, at cost, 2.2 shares at   December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively  

  

(32.1 

) 

(27.2 

)  


Total stockholders’ equity  

  

802.2 

  

659.4 

   


Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity  

  

$ 

1,376.1 

  

$ 

1,258.1 

    
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
43





 
Hexcel Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations For the Years Ended December 31,
 



(In millions, except per share data) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

1,392.4 

  

$ 

1,173.6 

  

$ 

1,108.3 

   


Cost of sales  

  

1,050.3 

  

891.0 

  

859.8 

   


Gross margin  

  

342.1 

  

282.6 

  

248.5 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Selling, general and administrative expenses  

  

120.5 

  

118.5 

  

107.2 

   


Research and technology expenses  

  

32.6 

  

30.8 

  

30.1 

   


Other (income) expense, net  

  

(3.0 

) 

3.5 

  

7.5 

   


Operating income  

  

192.0 

  

129.8 

  

103.7 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest expense, net  

  

11.6 

  

23.2 

  

26.1 

   


Non-operating expense  

  

4.9 

  

6.8 

  

— 

   


Income before income taxes and equity in earnings  

  

175.5 

  

99.8 

  

77.6 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Provision for income taxes  

  

41.6 

  

22.9 

  

22.0 

   


Income before equity in earnings  

  

133.9 

  

76.9 

  

55.6 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Equity in earnings from investments in affiliated   companies  

  

1.6 

  

0.5 

  

0.7 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

135.5 

  

$ 

77.4 

  

$ 

56.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic net income per common share:  

  

$ 

1.37 

  

$ 

0.79 

  

$ 

0.58 

   


Diluted net income per common share:  

  

$ 

1.35 

  

$ 

0.77 

  

$ 

0.57 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Weighted average common shares outstanding: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

98.8 

  

97.6 

  

96.9 

   


Diluted  

  

100.7 

  

99.9 

  

98.2 

    
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
44





 
Hexcel Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income For the Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
 



  

  

Common Stock 

  

Accumulated 

  

Accumulated 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


(In millions) 

  

Par 

  

Additional   Paid-In   Capital 

  

Retained   Earnings   (Deficit) 

  

Other   Comprehensive   Income (Loss) 

  

Treasury   Shares 

  

Total   Stockholders’   Equity 

  

Comprehensive   Income 

   


Balance, December 31, 2008  

  

$ 

1.0 

  

$ 

526.0 

  

$ 

14.7 

  

$ 

(8.7 

) 

$ 

(23.8 

) 

$ 

509.2 

  

  

   


Net income  

  

  

  

  

  

56.3 

  

  

  

  

  

56.3 

  

$ 

56.3 

   


Currency translation adjustments  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

10.1 

  

  

  

10.1 

  

10.1 

   


Net unrealized gain on financial instruments, net   of tax  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

6.7 

  

  

  

6.7 

  

6.7 

   


Change in post-retirement benefit plans, net of   tax  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(15.1 

) 

  

  

(15.1 

) 

(15.1 

)  


Comprehensive income  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

58.0 

   


Activity under stock plans  

  

  

  

9.3 

  

  

  

  

  

(0.9 

) 

8.4 

  

  

   


Balance, December 31, 2009  

  

$ 

1.0 

  

$ 

535.3 

  

$ 

71.0 

  

$ 

(7.0 

) 

$ 

(24.7 

) 

$ 

575.6 

  

  

   


Net income  

  

  

  

  

  

77.4 

  

  

  

  

  

77.4 

  

$ 

77.4 

   


Currency translation adjustments  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(17.1 

) 

  

  

(17.1 

) 

(17.1 

)  


Net unrealized gain on financial instruments, net   of tax  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

1.7 

  

  

  

1.7 

  

1.7 

   


Change in post-retirement benefit plans, net of   tax  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

7.3 

  

  

  

7.3 

  

7.3 

   


Comprehensive income  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

69.3 

   


Activity under stock plans  

  

  

  

17.0 

  

  

  

  

  

(2.5 

) 

14.5 

  

  

   


Balance, December 31, 2010  

  

$ 

1.0 

  

$ 

552.3 

  

$ 

148.4 

  

$ 

(15.1 

) 

$ 

(27.2 

) 

$ 

659.4 

  

  

   


Net income  

  

  

  

  

  

135.5 

  

  

  

  

  

135.5 

  

$ 

135.5 

   


Currency translation adjustments  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(10.1 

) 

  

  

(10.1 

) 

(10.1 

)  


Net unrealized loss on financial instruments, net   of tax  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(9.6 

) 

  

  

(9.6 

) 

(9.6 

)  


Change in post-retirement benefit plans, net of   tax  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

(5.0 

) 

  

  

(5.0 

) 

(5.0 

)  


Comprehensive income  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

$ 

110.8 

   


Activity under stock plans  

  

  

  

36.9 

  

  

  

  

  

(4.9 

) 

32.0 

  

  

   


Balance, December 31, 2011  

  

$ 

1.0 

  

$ 

589.2 

  

$ 

283.9 

  

$ 

(39.8 

) 

$ 

(32.1 

) 

$ 

802.2 

  

  

    
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
45





 
Hexcel Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended December 31,
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash flows from operating   activities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

135.5 

  

$ 

77.4 

  

$ 

56.3 

   


Reconciliation to net cash provided by operating   activities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Depreciation  

  

55.3 

  

53.2 

  

46.6 

   


Amortization of debt discount and deferred   financing costs  

  

7.1 

  

10.3 

  

4.9 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

23.4 

  

16.1 

  

19.6 

   


Share-based compensation  

  

13.9 

  

12.4 

  

8.3 

   


Excess tax benefits on share-based compensation  

  

(8.5 

) 

(2.3 

) 

(0.7 

)  


Pension curtailment gain  

  

(5.7 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Equity in earnings from investments in   affiliated companies  

  

(1.6 

) 

(0.5 

) 

(0.7 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Changes in assets and liabilities: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


(Increase) decrease in accounts receivable  

  

(28.2 

) 

(22.5 

) 

31.8 

   


(Increase) decrease in inventories  

  

(48.8 

) 

(16.7 

) 

38.4 

   


Increase in prepaid expenses and other current   assets  

  

(1.1 

) 

(0.2 

) 

(7.3 

)  


Increase (decrease) in accounts payable and   accrued liabilities  

  

34.1 

  

4.5 

  

(28.1 

)  


(Increase) decrease in other, net  

  

(4.9 

) 

(5.2 

) 

3.7 

   


Net cash provided by operating activities  

  

170.5 

  

126.5 

  

172.8 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash flows from investing   activities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital expenditures and deposits for capital   purchases  

  

(158.0 

) 

(48.8 

) 

(98.4 

)  


Settlement of foreign currency hedge  

  

(5.2 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Investment in affiliated companies  

  

— 

  

— 

  

(6.0 

)  


Net cash used for investing activities  

  

(163.2 

) 

(48.8 

) 

(104.4 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash flows from financing   activities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Borrowings from senior secured credit facility  

  

135.0 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Repayment of 6.75% senior subordinated notes  

  

(151.5 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Repayment of senior secured credit facility  

  

(57.0 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Repayment of senior secured credit agreement —   term loan  

  

(5.0 

) 

(2.5 

) 

(10.9 

)  


Call premium payment for 6.75% senior subordinated   notes  

  

(3.4 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


(Repayments) borrowings from credit line  

  

(2.3 

) 

3.9 

  

3.0 

   


Capital lease obligations and other debt, net  

  

(0.7 

) 

(0.5 

) 

0.3 

   


Proceeds from senior secured credit facility — term   loan  

  

— 

  

100.0 

  

171.5 

   


Repayment of senior secured credit agreement —   term B and C loans  

  

— 

  

(164.1 

) 

(167.0 

)  


Issuance costs related to new senior secured   credit facility  

  

— 

  

(5.1 

) 

(10.3 

)  


Activity under stock plans and other  

  

10.5 

  

3.1 

  

0.7 

   


Net cash used for financing activities  

  

(74.4 

) 

(65.2 

) 

(12.7 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash   equivalents  

  

(0.6 

) 

(5.4 

) 

3.5 

   


Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash   equivalents  

  

(67.7 

) 

7.1 

  

59.2 

   


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  

  

117.2 

  

110.1 

  

50.9 

   


Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  

  

$ 

49.5 

  

$ 

117.2 

  

$ 

110.1 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Supplemental information (See Note 15): 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Accrual basis additions to property, plant and   equipment  

  

$ 

184.5 

  

$ 

60.7 

  

$ 

85.7 

    
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
46





 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Note 1 — Significant Accounting Policies
 
Nature of Operations
 
Hexcel Corporation and its subsidiaries (herein referred to as “Hexcel”, “the Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), is a leading advanced composites company.  We develop, manufacture, and market lightweight, high-performance composites, including carbon fibers, specialty reinforcements, prepregs and other fiber-reinforced matrix materials, adhesives, honeycomb, engineered honeycomb and composite structures, for use in Commercial Aerospace, Space & Defense and Industrial Applications.  Our products are used in a wide variety of end applications, such as commercial and military aircraft, space launch vehicles and satellites, wind turbine blades, automotive, bikes, skis and a wide variety of recreational products and other industrial applications.
 
We serve international markets through manufacturing facilities, sales offices and representatives located in the Americas, Europe, Asia Pacific and Russia.  We are also an investor in a joint venture, which manufactures composite structures for commercial aerospace.
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Hexcel Corporation and its subsidiaries after elimination of all intercompany accounts, transactions and profits.  An investment in an affiliated company, in which our interest is 50% and where we do not have the ability to exercise control over financial or operating decisions, nor are we the primary beneficiary, is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
 
Use of Estimates
 
Preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less when purchased.  Our cash equivalents are held in prime money market investments with strong sponsor organizations which are monitored on a continuous basis.
 
Inventories
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined using the first-in, first-out and average cost methods.  Inventory is reported at its estimated net realizable value based upon our historical experience with inventory becoming obsolete due to age, changes in technology and other factors.
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment, including capitalized interest applicable to major project expenditures, is recorded at cost.  Asset and accumulated depreciation accounts are eliminated for dispositions, with resulting gains or losses reflected in earnings.  Depreciation of plant and equipment is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the various assets.  The estimated useful lives range from 10 to 40 years for buildings and improvements and from 3 to 20 years for machinery and equipment.  Repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred, while major replacements and betterments are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets of an acquired business. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that goodwill might be impaired.  The Company’s annual test for goodwill impairment was performed in the fourth quarter as of November 30, 2011.  In accordance with the recently issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Testing Goodwill for Impairment, the Company used a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment.  In the fourth quarter
 
47





 
2011, the Company chose to adopt this ASU early and performed a qualitative assessment and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units were not less than their carrying values and it was not necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test.
 
We amortize the cost of other intangibles over their estimated useful lives unless such lives are deemed indefinite.  Indefinite lived intangibles are tested annually for impairment, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the potential for impairment.  If the carrying amount of the indefinite lived intangible exceeds the fair value, the intangible asset is written down to its fair value.  Fair value is calculated using discounted cash flows.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company reviews long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and identifiable intangible assets, for impairment whenever changes in circumstances or events may indicate that the carrying amounts are not recoverable.  These indicators include: a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset, a significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is used or its physical condition, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset, a current period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of losses associated with a long-lived asset and a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated life.
 
The Company also tests indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting of purchased emissions credits, for impairment at least annually in the fourth quarter as of November 30th.  If the fair value is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss is recognized for the difference.
 
Software Development Costs
 
Costs incurred to develop software for internal-use are accounted for under Statement of Position 98-1, “Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.”  All costs relating to the preliminary project stage and the post-implementation/operation stage are expensed as incurred.  Costs incurred during the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the useful life of the software.  The amortization of capitalized costs commences when functionality of the computer software is achieved.
 
Investments
 
We have a 50% equity ownership investment in an Asian joint venture Asian Composites Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.  In accordance with recently issued accounting standards we have determined that this investment is not a variable interest entity.  As such, we account for our share of the earnings of this affiliated company using the equity method of accounting.  The Company continues to evaluate to make certain that the facts and circumstances associated with this investment have not changed with respect to accounting for a variable interest entity.
 
Debt Financing Costs
 
Debt financing costs are deferred and amortized to interest expense over the life of the related debt, which ranges from 4 to 10 years.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, deferred debt financing costs were $6.1 million and $9.8 million, net of accumulated amortization of $6.3 million and $4.1 million, respectively, and are included in “other assets” in the consolidated balance sheets.
 
Share-Based Compensation
 
The fair value of Restricted Stock Units (RSU’s) is equal to the market price of our stock at date of grant and is amortized to expense ratably over the vesting period.  Performance restricted stock units (“PRSUs”) are a form of RSUs in which the number of shares ultimately received depends on the extent to which we achieve a specified performance target. The fair value of the PRSU is based on the closing market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and is amortized straight-line over the total vesting period.  A change in the performance measure expected to be achieved is recorded as an adjustment in the period in which the change occurs.  We use the Black-Scholes model to value compensation expense for all option-based payment awards made to employees and directors based on estimated fair values on the grant date.  The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods in our consolidated statements of operations.
 
48





 
Currency Translation
 
The assets and liabilities of international subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates during the year.  Cumulative currency translation adjustments are included in “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” in the stockholders’ equity section of the consolidated balance sheets.  Gains and losses from foreign currency transactions are not material.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Our revenue is predominately derived from sales of inventory, and is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of loss passes to the customer, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.  However, from time to time we enter into contractual arrangements for which other specific revenue recognition guidance is applied.
 
Recognition of revenue on bill and hold arrangements occurs only when risk of ownership has passed to the buyer, a fixed written commitment has been provided by the buyer, the goods are complete and ready for shipment, the goods are segregated from inventory, no performance obligations remain and a schedule for delivery of goods has been established.  Revenues derived from design and installation services are recognized when the service is provided.  Revenues derived from long-term construction-type contracts are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method, and progress is measured on a cost-to-cost basis.  If at any time expected costs exceed the value of the contract, the loss is recognized immediately.
 
Product Warranty
 
We provide for an estimated amount of product warranty at the point a claim is probable and estimable.  This estimated amount is provided by product and based on current facts, circumstances and historical warranty experience.  Warranty expense was $2.0 million, $1.9 million and $0.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively.
 
Research and Technology
 
Significant costs are incurred each year in connection with research and technology (“R&T”) programs that are expected to contribute to future earnings.  Such costs are related to the development and, in certain instances, the qualification and certification of new and improved products and their uses.  R&T costs are expensed as incurred.
 
Income Taxes
 
We provide for income taxes using the liability approach.  Under the liability approach, deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect tax net operating loss and credit carryforwards and the tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income tax purposes.  Deferred tax assets require a valuation allowance when it is more likely than not, based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence, that some portion of the deferred tax assets may not be realized.  The realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the timing and magnitude of future taxable income prior to the expiration of the deferred tax assets’ attributes.  When events and circumstances so dictate, we evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance by forecasting future taxable income.  Investment tax credits are recorded on a flow-through basis, which reflects the credit in net income as a reduction of the provision for income taxes in the same period as the credit is realized for federal income tax purposes.
 
Concentration of Credit Risk
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade accounts receivable.  Two customers and their related subcontractors accounted for more than half of our annual net sales in 2011 and 2010 and three customers and their related subcontractors accounted for more than half of our annual net sales for 2009.  Refer to Note 17 for further information on significant customers.  We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’ financial condition but generally do not require collateral or other security to support customer receivables.  We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts based on factors surrounding the credit risk of specific customers, historical trends and other financial information.  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.2 million and $1.5 million, respectively.  Bad debt expense was immaterial for all years presented.
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
We use various financial instruments, including foreign currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swap agreements, to manage our exposure to market fluctuations by generating cash flows that offset, in relation to their amount and timing, the cash flows of certain foreign currency denominated transactions or underlying debt instruments.  We mark our foreign exchange forward contracts to fair value.  The change in the fair value is recorded in current period earnings.  When the derivatives qualify, we designate our foreign currency forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges against forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions and report the effective portions of changes in fair value of the instruments in “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” until
 
49





 
the underlying hedged transactions affect income.  We designate our interest rate swap agreements as fair value or cash flow hedges against specific debt instruments and recognize interest differentials as adjustments to interest expense as the differentials may occur. We do not use financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
 
In accordance with accounting guidance, we recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities on our balance sheet and measure those instruments at fair value.
 
Self-insurance
 
We are self-insured up to specific levels for certain medical and health insurance and workers’ compensation plans.  Accruals are established based on actuarial assumptions and historical claim experience, and include estimated amounts for incurred but not reported claims.
 
New Accounting Pronouncements
 
Testing Goodwill for Impairment: In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) - Testing Goodwill for Impairment, which allows an entity to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. ASU 2011-08 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012; however, as permitted we have chosen early adoption in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income: In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which requires an entity to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of equity. ASU 2011-05 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012 and must be applied retrospectively. We expect to present comprehensive income in two separate but consecutive statements.  This is a change in presentation only and will not have an impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements: In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (Topic 820) — Fair Value Measurement, to provide a consistent definition of fair value and ensure that the fair value measurement and disclosure requirements are similar between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2011-04 changes certain fair value measurement principles and enhances the disclosure requirements, particularly for level 3 fair value measurements. ASU 2011-04 is effective for our fiscal year beginning January 1, 2012 and must be applied prospectively. Given the immaterial amount of assets and liabilities that require level 3 inputs we do not expect the impact of the adoption of ASU 2011-04 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Balance Sheet Offsetting Disclosures:  In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities (Topic 210, Balance Sheet). The update requires new disclosures about balance sheet offsetting and related arrangements. For derivatives and financial assets and liabilities, the amendments require disclosure of gross asset and liability amounts, amounts offset on the balance sheet, and amounts subject to the offsetting requirements but not offset on the balance sheet. The guidance is effective December 1, 2013 and is to be applied retrospectively. This guidance does not amend the existing guidance on when it is appropriate to offset; the impact of the adoption of ASU 2011-11 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
Note 2 — Inventories
 



  

  

December 31, 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Raw materials  

  

$ 

86.4 

  

$ 

62.9 

   


Work in progress  

  

48.4 

  

38.0 

   


Finished goods  

  

80.9 

  

69.0 

   


Total inventories  

  

$ 

215.7 

  

$ 

169.9 

    
 
50





 
Note 3 — Net Property, Plant and Equipment
 



  

  

December 31, 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Land  

  

$ 

35.4 

  

$ 

34.4 

   


Buildings  

  

278.7 

  

253.1 

   


Equipment  

  

732.0 

  

680.9 

   


Construction in progress  

  

177.4 

  

95.5 

   


Property, plant and equipment  

  

1,223.5 

  

1,063.9 

   


Less accumulated depreciation  

  

(501.4 

) 

(465.6 

)  


Net property, plant and equipment  

  

$ 

722.1 

  

$ 

598.3 

    
 
Depreciation expense related to property, plant and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, was $55.3 million, $53.2 million, and $46.6 million, respectively.  Capitalized interest of $2.0 million and $2.5 million for 2011 and 2010 was included in construction in progress and is associated with our carbon fiber expansion programs.  Capitalized costs associated with software developed for internal use were $1.1 million for both 2011 and 2010.
 
Note 4 — Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets
 
Changes in the carrying amount of gross goodwill and other purchased intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, by segment, are as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Engineered   Products 

  

Total 

   


Balance as of December 31, 2009  

  

$ 

40.6 

  

$ 

16.1 

  

$ 

56.7 

   


Currency translation adjustments and other  

  

(0.5 

) 

— 

  

(0.5 

)  


Balance as of December 31, 2010  

  

$ 

40.1 

  

$ 

16.1 

  

$ 

56.2 

   


Current year additions  

  

1.3 

  

— 

  

1.3 

   


Currency translation adjustments and other  

  

(0.1 

) 

— 

  

(0.1 

)  


Balance as of December 31,   2011  

  

$ 

41.3 

  

$ 

16.1 

  

$ 

57.4 

    
 
We performed our annual impairment review of goodwill as of November 30, 2011 and determined that it was more likely than not that the fair values of our reporting units were not less than their carrying values.  The goodwill and intangible asset balances as of December 31, 2011 include $3.6 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets and $53.8 million of goodwill.
 
Note 5 — Investments in Affiliated Companies
 
As of December 31, 2011, we have a 50% equity ownership investment in an Asian joint venture Asian Composites Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. (“ACM”).  In 2009, we paid $6 million to increase our ownership percentage from 33.33% to 50%.  In accordance with accounting standards we have determined that this investment is not a variable interest entity.  As such, we account for our share of the operating performance of this affiliated company using the equity method of accounting.
 
Note 6 - Debt
 



(In millions) 

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

   


Foreign operation’s working capital line of credit    

  

$ 

4.8 

  

$ 

7.1 

   


Current maturities of capital lease and other   obligations  

  

0.3 

  

0.5 

   


Current maturities of term B loan  

  

7.5 

  

5.0 

   


Current maturities of 6.75% senior subordinated   notes due 2015  

  

— 

  

15.0 

   


Short-term borrowings and current maturities of   long-term debt  

  

12.6 

  

27.6 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Senior secured credit facility — new term B loan   due 2015  

  

85.0 

  

92.5 

   


Senior secured credit facility — revolving loan   due 2015 

  

78.0 

  

— 

   


6.75% senior subordinated notes due 2015  

  

73.5 

  

210.0 

   


Capital lease and other obligations  

  

1.8 

  

2.1 

   


Long-term notes payable and capital lease   obligations  

  

238.3 

  

304.6 

   


Total debt  

  

$ 

250.9 

  

$ 

332.2 

    
 
51





 
Estimated Fair Values of Notes Payable
 
The approximate, aggregate fair value of our notes payable as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

   


6.75% senior   subordinated notes, due 2015  

  

$ 

74.0 

  

$ 

225.6 

   


Senior secured credit facility   — New Term B loan due 2015  

  

$ 

93.0 

  

$ 

98.0 

    
 
The aggregate fair values of the notes payable were estimated on the basis of quoted market prices.
 
Senior Secured Credit Facility
 
Hexcel Corporation has a $385 million senior secured credit facility (the “Facility”), consisting of a $285 million revolving loan and a $100 million term loan.  The Facility matures on July 9, 2015.  The interest rate on the Facility is LIBOR plus 2.75% and ranges down to LIBOR plus 2% depending upon the leverage ratio.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was less than 1.75; accordingly in 2011 the margin paid on our borrowing rate was 2%.  The term loan was borrowed at closing and once repaid cannot be reborrowed.  The term loan is scheduled to be repaid at an initial rate of $1.3 million per quarter and approximately $2.5 million per quarter, beginning in September 2012, with two payments of $10.0 million in September 2014 and December 2014 and two final $25.0 million payments in March and June 2015.
 
The Facility permits us to issue letters of credit up to an aggregate amount of $40 million and allows us to draw up to $75 million in Euros.  Amounts drawn in Euros or any outstanding letters of credit reduce the amount available for borrowing under the revolving loan.  As of December 31, 2011, we had issued letters of credit totaling $2.2 million under the Facility.  In addition, we had $78.0 million of borrowings under the revolving loan at December 31, 2011.  Total undrawn availability under the Senior Secured Credit Facility as of December 31, 2011 was $204.8 million.
 
The credit agreement contains financial and other covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on the incurrence of debt and the granting of liens, as well as the maintenance of an interest coverage ratio and a leverage ratio, and limitations on capital expenditures. In accordance with the terms of the Facility, we are required to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 4.00 (based on the ratio of EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, to interest expense) and may not exceed a maximum leverage ratio of 3.00 (based on the ratio of total debt to EBITDA) throughout the term of the Facility.  In addition, the Facility contains other terms and conditions such as customary representations and warranties, additional covenants and customary events of default. A violation of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit agreement, which would permit the lenders to accelerate the payment of all borrowings and to terminate the credit agreement.  In addition, such a default could, under certain circumstances, permit the holders of other outstanding unsecured debt to accelerate the repayment of such obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all debt covenants and expect to remain in compliance.
 
Additionally we have interest rate swaps totaling approximately $98 million that expire in March 2014.  These interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges to our term loan.  The interest rate swaps trade LIBOR for a fixed rate at an average rate of 1.03%.
 
6.75% Senior Subordinated Notes, due 2015
 
On February 1, 2005, we issued $225 million of 6.75% senior subordinated notes due 2015. The senior subordinated notes are unsecured senior subordinated obligations of Hexcel Corporation.  Interest accrues at the rate of 6.75% per annum and is payable semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1.  The senior subordinated notes mature on February 1, 2015.
 
On February 1, 2011, we redeemed $150 million of these notes at a call premium of 2.25%.  The redemption was primarily funded by a $135.0 million add-on to our senior secured credit facility that was completed in December 2010. As a result of the redemption, we accelerated the unamortized financing costs of the senior subordinated notes being redeemed and expensed the call premium incurring a pretax charge of $4.9 million (after tax of $0.03 per diluted share) in the first quarter of 2011.
 
As of February 1, 2012, we had the option to redeem all or a portion of the remaining senior subordinated notes at 101.25%, with this percentage decreasing to 100.0% any time on or after February 1, 2013.  In the event of a “change of control” (as defined in the indenture), we are generally required to make an offer to all noteholders to purchase all outstanding senior subordinated notes at 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest.
 
The indenture contains various customary covenants including, but not limited to, restrictions on incurring debt, making restricted payments (including dividends), the use of proceeds from certain asset dispositions, entering into transactions with affiliates,
 
52





 
and merging or selling all or substantially all of our assets.  The indenture also contains many other customary terms and conditions, including customary events of default, some of which are subject to grace and notice periods.
 
Other Credit Facility
 
We have a $12.0 million borrowing facility for working capital needs of our Chinese entity with an outstanding balance of $4.8 million on December 31, 2011. The facility contains a $10.0 million revolving credit line and a $2.0 million factoring facility.  The factoring facility was not used in 2011.  These funds can only be used locally, and accordingly, we do not include this facility in our borrowing capacity disclosures.  The facility expires on September 6, 2012 and is guaranteed by Hexcel.
 
Aggregate Maturities of Debt
 
The table below reflects aggregate scheduled maturities of notes payable, excluding capital lease obligations, as of December 31, 2011.  See Note 7 for capital lease obligation maturities.
 



Payable during the years ending December 31: 

  

(In millions) 

   


2012  

  

$ 

12.4 

   


2013  

  

10.0 

   


2014  

  

25.0 

   


2015  

  

201.5 

   


2016  

  

— 

   


Total debt  

  

$ 

248.9 

    
 
Note 7 - Leasing Arrangements
 
We have a capital lease for a building, with an obligation of $2.0 million as of December 31, 2011 that contains a purchase option which can be exercised on or after December 31, 2012.  The related assets, accumulated depreciation, and related liability balances under capital leasing arrangements, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, were:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Property, plant and equipment  

  

$ 

3.7 

  

$ 

3.7 

   


Less accumulated depreciation  

  

(1.6 

) 

(1.5 

)  


Net property, plant and equipment  

  

$ 

2.1 

  

$ 

2.2 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital lease obligations  

  

$ 

2.0 

  

$ 

2.2 

   


Less current maturities  

  

(0.2 

) 

(0.2 

)  


Long-term capital lease obligations, net  

  

$ 

1.8 

  

$ 

2.0 

    
 
In addition to the capital lease above, certain sales and administrative offices, data processing equipment and manufacturing facilities are leased under operating leases.  We recognize rental expense on operating leases straight-line over the term of a lease.  Total rental expense was $15.2 million in 2011, $15.0 million in 2010 and $13.1 million in 2009.
 
Scheduled future minimum lease payments as of December 31, 2011 were:
 



(In millions) 

  

Type of Lease 

   


Payable during the years ending December 31: 

  

Capital 

  

Operating 

   


2012  

  

$ 

0.3 

  

$ 

9.8 

   


2013  

  

— 

  

7.6 

   


2014  

  

— 

  

6.7 

   


2015  

  

— 

  

3.6 

   


2016  

  

— 

  

3.4 

   


Thereafter  

  

1.8 

  

19.4 

   


Total minimum lease payments  

  

2.1 

  

$ 

50.5 

   


Less amounts representing interest  

  

0.1 

  

  

   


Present value of future minimum capital lease   payments  

  

$ 

2.0 

  

  

    
 
53





 
Note 8 — Retirement and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
 
We maintain qualified defined benefit retirement plans covering certain current and former European employees, as well as nonqualified defined benefit retirement plans and retirement savings plans covering certain eligible U.S. and European employees, and participate in a union sponsored multi-employer pension plan covering certain U.S. employees with union affiliations.  In addition, we provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to eligible U.S. retirees.
 
Accounting standards require the use of certain assumptions, such as the expected long-term rate of return, discount rate, rate of compensation increase, healthcare cost trend rates, and retirement and mortality rates, to determine the net periodic costs of such plans.  These assumptions are reviewed and set annually at the beginning of each year.  In addition, these models use an “attribution approach” that generally spreads individual events, such as plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, over the service lives of the employees in the plan.  That is, employees render service over their service lives on a relatively smooth basis and therefore, the income statement effects of retirement and postretirement benefit plans are earned in, and should follow, the same pattern.
 
We use our actual return experience, future expectations of long-term investment returns, and our actual and targeted asset allocations to develop our expected rate of return assumption used in the net periodic cost calculations of our funded European defined benefit retirement plans.  Due to the difficulty involved in predicting the market performance of certain assets, there will be a difference in any given year between our expected return on plan assets and the actual return.  Following the attribution approach, each year’s difference is amortized over a number of future years.  Over time, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns and therefore result in a pattern of income and expense recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees.
 
We annually set our discount rate assumption for retirement-related benefits accounting to reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments.  The rates used have dropped over the past three years and are expected to drop an additional 50 basis points for 2012.  The rate of compensation increase for nonqualified pension plans, which is another significant assumption used in the actuarial model for pension accounting, is determined by us based upon our long-term plans for such increases and assumed inflation.  For the postretirement health care and life insurance benefits plan, we review external data and its historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rates.  Retirement and termination rates are based primarily on actual plan experience.  The mortality table used for the U.S. plans is based on the RP2000 Mortality Table projected to 2012 and for the U.K. Plans the 140% PNA00 (YoB) long cohort with 1% underpin.
 
Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect the net periodic costs and recorded obligations in such future periods.  While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, significant changes in economic or other conditions, employee demographics, retirement and mortality rates, and investment performance may materially impact such costs and obligations.
 
U.S. Defined Benefit Retirement Plans
 
We have nonqualified defined benefit retirement plans covering certain current and former U.S. employees that are funded as benefits are incurred.  Under the provisions of these plans, we expect to contribute approximately $0.3 million in 2012 to cover unfunded benefits.
 
Multi-Employer Plan
 
The Company is party to a multi-employer pension plan covering certain U.S. employees with union affiliations.  The plan is the Western Metal Industry Pension Fund, (“the Plan”). The Plan’s employer identification number 91-6033499; the Plan number is 001.  In 2010, the Plan reported Hexcel Corporation as being an employer that contributed greater than 5% of the Plan’s total contributions.  The expiration date of the collective bargaining agreement and minimum funding arrangements is September 30, 2015.  The Plan has been listed in “critical status” since 2010.  The Plan adopted a Rehabilitation Plan in 2010.  This amendment reduced the adjustable benefits of the participants and levied a surcharge on employer contributions.  We expect the Company’s contribution to be about $1.0 million in 2012 and remain at that level over the next few years.
 
U.S. Retirement Savings Plan
 
Under the retirement savings plan, eligible U.S. employees can contribute up to 75% of their annual compensation to an individual 401(k) retirement savings account.  The Company makes matching contributions equal to 50% of employee contributions, not to exceed 3% of employee compensation each year.  We also contribute an additional 2% to 4% of each eligible employee’s salary to an individual 401(k) retirement savings account, depending on the employee’s age.  This increases the maximum contribution to
 
54





 
individual employee savings accounts to between 5% and 7% per year, before any profit sharing contributions that are made when we meet or exceed certain performance targets that are set annually.  These profit sharing contributions are made at the Company’s discretion and are targeted at 3% of an eligible employee’s pay, with a maximum of 4.5%.
 
U.S. Postretirement Plans
 
In addition to defined benefit and retirement savings plan benefits, we also provide certain postretirement health care and life insurance benefits to eligible U.S. retirees.  Depending upon the plan, benefits are available to eligible employees who retire after meeting certain age and service requirements and were employed by Hexcel as of February 1996.  Our funding policy for the postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans is generally to pay covered expenses as they are incurred.  Under the provisions of these plans, we expect to contribute approximately $0.7 million in 2012 to cover unfunded benefits.
 
European Defined Benefit Retirement Plans
 
We have defined benefit retirement plans in the United Kingdom, Belgium, France and Austria covering certain employees of our subsidiaries in those countries.  The defined benefit plan in the United Kingdom (the “U.K. Plan”), the largest of the European plans, was terminated in 2011 and replaced with a defined contribution plan.  We recorded a curtailment gain of $5.7 million (after tax gain of $0.04 per diluted share) to recognize previously unrecognized prior service credits.  As of December 31, 2011, 56% of the total assets in the U.K. Plan were invested in equities.  Equity investments are made with the objective of achieving a return on plan assets consistent with the funding requirements of the plan, maximizing portfolio return and minimizing the impact of market fluctuations on the fair value of the plan assets.  As a result of an annual review of historical returns and market trends, the expected long-term weighted average rate of return for the U.K. Plan for the 2012 plan year will be 6.5% and 4.4% for the other European Plans as a group.
 
UK Defined Contribution Pension Plan
 
Under the Defined Contribution Section, eligible UK employees can belong to the Deferred Contribution Plan on a non-participatory basis or can elect to contribute 3%, 5% or 7% of their pensionable salary.  The Company will contribute 5%, 9% and 13% respectively.  The plan also provides life insurance and disability insurance benefits for members.
 
Retirement and Other Postretirement Plans - France
 
The employees of our French subsidiaries are entitled to receive a lump-sum payment upon retirement subject to certain service conditions under the provisions of the national chemicals and textile workers collective bargaining agreements.  The amounts attributable to the French plans have been included within the total expense and obligation amounts noted for the European plans.
 
Net Periodic Pension Expense
 
Net periodic expense for our U.S. and European qualified and nonqualified defined benefit pension plans and our retirement savings plans for the three years ended December 31, 2011 is detailed in the table below.
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Defined benefit retirement plans  

  

$ 

(0.3 

) 

$ 

9.0 

  

$ 

7.8 

   


Union sponsored multi-employer pension plan  

  

0.9 

  

0.7 

  

0.6 

   


Retirement savings plans-matching contributions  

  

2.9 

  

2.5 

  

2.4 

   


Retirement savings plans-profit sharing   contributions  

  

8.0 

  

6.5 

  

5.4 

   


Net periodic expense  

  

$ 

11.5 

  

$ 

18.7 

  

$ 

16.2 

    
 
Defined Benefit Retirement and Postretirement Plans
 
Net periodic cost of our defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans for the three years ended December 31, 2011, were:
 



(In millions) 

  

U.S. Plans 

  

European Plans 

   


Defined Benefit Retirement Plans 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Service cost  

  

$ 

1.5 

  

$ 

1.2 

  

$ 

1.9 

  

$ 

1.1 

  

$ 

3.7 

  

$ 

3.2 

   


Interest cost  

  

1.1 

  

1.0 

  

1.0 

  

7.2 

  

7.3 

  

6.1 

   


Expected return on plan assets  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(7.8 

) 

(6.3 

) 

(5.0 

)  


Net amortization  

  

1.6 

  

0.9 

  

0.2 

  

0.7 

  

1.2 

  

0.4 

   


Curtailment gain  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(5.7 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Net periodic pension cost  

  

$ 

4.2 

  

$ 

3.1 

  

$ 

3.1 

  

$ 

(4.5 

) 

$ 

5.9 

  

$ 

4.7 

    
 
55

 




 



U.S. Postretirement Plans 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Service cost  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

0.1 

  

$ 

0.1 

   


Interest cost  

  

0.4 

  

0.5 

  

0.6 

   


Net amortization and deferral  

  

(0.3 

) 

(0.2 

) 

(0.3 

)  


Net periodic postretirement benefit cost  

  

$ 

0.1 

  

$ 

0.4 

  

$ 

0.4 

    
 



(In millions) 

  

For the Year Ended December 31, 2011 

   


Other Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations   Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income 

  

U.S. Plans 

  

European Plans 

  

Postretirement   Plans 

   


Net loss (gain)  

  

$ 

3.3 

  

$ 

7.9 

  

$ 

(1.6 

)  


Amortization of actuarial losses  

  

(1.5 

) 

(0.9 

) 

— 

   


Amortization of prior service credit (cost)  

  

(0.1 

) 

5.9 

  

0.4 

   


Effect of foreign exchange  

  

— 

  

(0.6 

) 

— 

   


Total recognized in other comprehensive income   (pre-tax)  

  

$ 

1.7 

  

$ 

12.3 

  

$ 

(1.2 

)   
 
The Company expects to recognize $3.0 million of net actuarial loss and an immaterial net prior service cost as a component of net periodic pension cost in 2012 for its defined benefit plans.  The recognition of net prior service credit and net actuarial gain as a component of net periodic postretirement benefit cost in 2012 is expected to be $0.5 million.
 
The benefit obligation, fair value of plan assets, funded status, and amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements for our defined benefit retirement plans and postretirement plans, as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, were:
 



  

  

Defined Benefit Retirement Plans 

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

U.S. Plans 

  

European Plans 

  

Postretirement Plans 

   


(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Change in benefit obligation: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Benefit obligation - beginning of year  

  

$ 

27.8 

  

$ 

23.3 

  

$ 

134.1 

  

$ 

134.6 

  

$ 

9.4 

  

$ 

11.2 

   


Service cost  

  

1.5 

  

1.2 

  

1.1 

  

3.7 

  

— 

  

0.1 

   


Interest cost  

  

1.1 

  

1.0 

  

7.2 

  

7.3 

  

0.4 

  

0.5 

   


Plan participants’ contributions  

  

— 

  

— 

  

0.1 

  

0.1 

  

0.3 

  

0.2 

   


Actuarial loss (gain)  

  

3.3 

  

2.9 

  

4.5 

  

(2.2 

) 

(1.5 

) 

(1.9 

)  


Benefits and expenses paid  

  

(0.3 

) 

(0.6 

) 

(4.7 

) 

(4.3 

) 

(0.6 

) 

(0.7 

)  


Curtailment and settlements  

  

— 

  

— 

  

(1.7 

) 

(0.5 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Currency translation adjustments  

  

— 

  

— 

  

(0.8 

) 

(4.6 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Benefit obligation - end of year  

  

$ 

33.4 

  

$ 

27.8 

  

$ 

139.8 

  

$ 

134.1 

  

$ 

8.0 

  

$ 

9.4 

   


Change in plan assets: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Fair value of plan assets - beginning of year    

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

106.9 

  

$ 

93.3 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Actual return on plan assets  

  

— 

  

— 

  

2.7 

  

12.3 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Employer contributions  

  

0.3 

  

0.6 

  

6.2 

  

9.0 

  

0.3 

  

0.4 

   


Plan participants’ contributions  

  

— 

  

— 

  

0.1 

  

0.1 

  

0.3 

  

0.3 

   


Benefits and expenses paid  

  

(0.3 

) 

(0.6 

) 

(4.7 

) 

(4.3 

) 

(0.6 

) 

(0.7 

)  


Currency translation adjustments  

  

— 

  

— 

  

(0.4 

) 

(3.0 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Settlement  

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(0.5 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Fair value of plan assets - end of year  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

110.8 

  

$ 

106.9 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Amounts recognized in   Consolidated Balance Sheets: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Current liabilities  

  

$ 

0.3 

  

$ 

0.9 

  

$ 

0.4 

  

$ 

0.5 

  

$ 

0.7 

  

$ 

0.8 

   


Non-current liabilities  

  

33.1 

  

26.9 

  

28.6 

  

26.7 

  

7.3 

  

8.6 

   


Total Liabilities  

  

$ 

33.4 

  

$ 

27.8 

  

$ 

29.0 

  

$ 

27.2 

  

$ 

8.0 

  

$ 

9.4 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Amounts recognized in   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Actuarial net (loss) gain  

  

$ 

(9.4 

) 

$ 

(7.6 

) 

$ 

(36.6 

) 

$ 

(30.0 

) 

$ 

3.7 

  

$ 

2.4 

   


Prior service credit (cost)  

  

(0.2 

) 

(0.3 

) 

(0.1 

) 

5.6 

  

— 

  

0.1 

   


Total amounts recognized in accumulated other   comprehensive (loss) income  

  

$ 

(9.6 

) 

$ 

(7.9 

) 

$ 

(36.7 

) 

$ 

(24.4 

) 

$ 

3.7 

  

$ 

2.5 

    
 
56





 
The measurement date used to determine the benefit obligations and plan assets of the defined benefit retirement and postretirement plans was December 31, 2011.
 
The total accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”) for the U.S. defined benefit retirement plans was $33.0 million and $26.8 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The European Plans’ ABO exceeded plan assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, by $25.8 million and $22.1 million, respectively.  These plans’ ABO was $136.6 million and $129.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the accrued benefit costs for the defined benefit retirement plans and postretirement benefit plans included within “accrued compensation and benefits” was $1.4 million and $2.2 million, respectively, and within “other non-current liabilities” was $69.0 million and $62.2 million, respectively, in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.
 
Benefit payments for the plans are expected to be as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

U.S. Plans 

  

European   Plans 

  

Postretirement   Plans 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2012  

  

$ 

0.3 

  

$ 

3.8 

  

$ 

0.7 

   


2013  

  

7.1 

  

3.8 

  

0.9 

   


2014  

  

1.4 

  

3.5 

  

0.9 

   


2015  

  

18.0 

  

3.7 

  

0.8 

   


2016  

  

4.7 

  

4.1 

  

0.7 

   


2017-2021  

  

5.7 

  

24.6 

  

3.2 

   


  

  

$ 

37.2 

  

$ 

43.5 

  

$ 

7.2 

    
 
Fair Values of Pension Assets
 
The following table presents pension assets measured at fair value at December 31, 2011 utilizing the fair value hierarchy discussed in Note 20:
 



(In millions) 

  

December   31, 

  

Fair Value Measurements at   December 31, 2011 

   


Description 

  

2011 

  

Level 1 

  

Level 2 

  

Level 3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Equity funds  

  

$ 

59.7 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

59.7 

  

$ 

— 

   


Active corporate bond   fund  

  

45.6 

  

— 

  

45.6 

  

— 

   


Diversified investment   funds  

  

2.9 

  

— 

  

0.4 

  

2.5 

   


Insurance contracts  

  

2.6 

  

— 

  

— 

  

2.6 

   


Total assets  

  

$ 

110.8 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

105.7 

  

$ 

5.1 

    
 



Reconciliation of Level 3 Assets 

  

Balance at   January 1,   2011 

  

Actual   return on   plan assets 

  

Purchases,   sales and   settlements 

  

Changes due   to exchange   rates 

  

Balance at   December 31,   2011 

   


Diversified investment   funds  

  

$ 

2.8 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

(0.3 

) 

$ 

— 

  

$ 

2.5 

   


Insurance contracts  

  

2.7 

  

0.1 

  

(0.1 

) 

(0.1 

) 

2.6 

   


Total level 3 assets  

  

$ 

5.5 

  

$ 

0.1 

  

$ 

(0.4 

) 

$ 

(0.1 

) 

$ 

5.1 

    
 
Plan assets are invested in a number of unit linked pooled funds by an independent asset management group.  Equity funds are split 50/50 between U.K. and overseas equity funds (North America, Japan, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets).  The asset management firm uses quoted prices in active markets to value the assets.
 
The Bond Allocation is invested in a number of Active Corporate Bond funds which are pooled funds.  The Corporate Bond funds primarily invest in corporate fixed income securities denominated in British Pounds Sterling with credit ratings of BBB- and above.  We use quoted prices in active markets to value the assets.
 
57





 
Diversified investment funds are invested in an external pension fund which in turn invests in a range of asset classes including equities and government and corporate bonds, hedge funds and private equity.  The fair value of the assets is equal to the fair value of the assets as of January 1, 2011, as provided by the external pension fund, adjusted for cash flows over the year and the estimated investment return on underlying assets over the year.
 
Insurance contracts contain a minimum guaranteed return.  The fair value of the assets is equal to the total amount of all individual technical reserves plus the non allocated employer’s financing fund reserves at the valuation date.  The individual technical and financing fund reserves are equal to the accumulated paid contributions taking into account the insurance tarification and any allocated profit sharing return.
 
The actual allocations for the pension assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and target allocations by asset class, are as follows:
 



  

  

Percentage   Of Plan Assets 

  

Target   Allocations 

  

Percentage   Of Plan Assets 

  

Target   Allocations 

   


Asset Class 

  

2011 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2010 

   


U.K. Equity Fund  

  

27.8 

% 

31.0 

% 

29.9 

% 

30.4 

%  


Overseas Equity Fund  

  

26.1 

  

31.0 

  

30.7 

  

30.4 

   


Active Corporate Bond Funds  

  

41.1 

  

32.9 

  

34.3 

  

34.1 

   


Insurance Contracts  

  

2.4 

  

2.6 

  

2.5 

  

2.5 

   


Diversified Investment Funds  

  

2.6 

  

2.5 

  

2.6 

  

2.6 

   


Total  

  

100 

% 

100 

% 

100 

% 

100 

%   
 
Assumptions
 
The assumed discount rate for pension plans reflects the market rates for high-quality fixed income debt instruments currently available.  We used the Mercer Yield Curve to set our discount rate for the European plans, the U.S. non-qualified plans and the U.S. postretirement plans.  We believe that the timing and amount of cash flows related to these instruments is expected to match the estimated defined benefit payment streams of our plans.
 
Salary increase assumptions are based on historical experience and anticipated future management actions.  For the postretirement health care and life insurance benefit plans, we review external data and our historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rates.  Retirement rates are based primarily on actual plan experience and on rates from previously mentioned mortality tables.  Actual results that differ from our assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, generally affect the net periodic costs and recorded obligations in such future periods.  While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, significant changes in economic or other conditions, employee demographics, retirement and mortality rates, and investment performance may materially impact such costs and obligations.
 
Assumptions used to estimate the actuarial present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are shown in the following table.  These year-end values are the basis for determining net periodic costs for the following year.
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


U.S. defined benefit retirement plans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Discount rates  

  

3.20% 

  

3.70% 

  

4.55% 

   


Rate of increase in compensation  

  

3.0% 

  

3.5% 

  

3.5% 

   


Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets  

  

N/A 

  

N/A 

  

N/A 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


European defined benefit retirement plans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Discount rates  

  

4.5% - 4.75% 

  

5.0% - 5.3% 

  

5.25% - 5.7% 

   


Rates of increase in compensation  

  

3.0% 

  

3.0% - 4.25% 

  

3.0% - 4.25% 

   


Expected long-term rates of return on plan assets  

  

4.25% – 6.5% 

  

4.5% – 7.0% 

  

4.5% – 6.3% 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Postretirement benefit plans: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Discount rates  

  

3.85% 

  

4.45% 

  

5.1% 

    
 
58





 
The following table presents the impact that a one-percentage-point increase and a one-percentage-point decrease in the expected long-term rate of return and discount rate would have on the 2012 pension expense, and the impact on our retirement obligation as of December 31, 2011 for a one-percentage-point change in the discount rate:
 



  

  

Non   Qualified 

  

Retiree   Medical 

  

U.K.   Retirement 

   


(In millions) 

  

Pension Plans 

  

Plans 

  

Plan 

   


Periodic pension expense 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


One-percentage-point increase: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Expected long-term rate of return  

  

$ 

N/A 

  

$ 

N/A 

  

$ 

(1.1 

)  


Discount rate  

  

$ 

(0.1 

) 

$ 

0.1 

  

$ 

(0.6 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


One-percentage-point decrease: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Expected long-term rate of return  

  

$ 

N/A 

  

$ 

N/A 

  

$ 

1.1 

   


Discount rate  

  

$ 

0.1 

  

$ 

(0.1 

) 

$ 

0.1 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Retirement obligation 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


One-percentage-point increase in discount rate  

  

$ 

(1.2 

) 

$ 

(0.5 

) 

$ 

(18.8 

)  


One-percentage-point decrease in discount rate  

  

$ 

1.3 

  

$ 

0.5 

  

$ 

22.2 

    
 
The annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits is assumed to be 7.1% for medical and 5.0% for dental and vision for 2012.  The medical rates are assumed to gradually decline to 4.5% by 2025, whereas dental and vision rates are assumed to remain constant at 5.0%.  A one-percentage-point increase and a one-percentage-point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend would have an insignificant impact on the total of service and interest cost components, and would have an unfavorable and a favorable impact of approximately $0.2 million and $0.3 million on the postretirement benefit obligation for both 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Note 9 - Income Taxes
 
Income before income taxes and the provision for income taxes, for the three years ended December 31, 2011, were as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Income before income taxes: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U.S.  

  

$ 

106.3 

  

$ 

54.3 

  

$ 

63.6 

   


International  

  

69.2 

  

45.5 

  

14.0 

   


Total income before income taxes  

  

$ 

175.5 

  

$ 

99.8 

  

$ 

77.6 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Provision for income taxes: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Current: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U.S.  

  

$ 

10.6 

  

$ 

1.1 

  

$ 

1.5 

   


International  

  

7.6 

  

5.7 

  

0.9 

   


Current provision for income taxes  

  

18.2 

  

6.8 

  

2.4 

   


Deferred: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


U.S.  

  

24.4 

  

15.1 

  

23.8 

   


International  

  

(1.0 

) 

1.0 

  

(4.2 

)  


Deferred provision for income taxes  

  

23.4 

  

16.1 

  

19.6 

   


Total provision for income taxes  

  

$ 

41.6 

  

$ 

22.9 

  

$ 

22.0 

    
 
A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate of 35% to the effective income tax rate, for the three years ended December 31, 2011, is as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Provision for taxes at U.S. federal statutory rate    

  

$ 

61.5 

  

$ 

34.9 

  

$ 

27.1 

   


State and local taxes, net of federal benefit  

  

2.2 

  

1.8 

  

1.6 

   


Foreign effective rate differential  

  

(8.4 

) 

(7.3 

) 

(7.4 

)  


Other  

  

1.3 

  

1.4 

  

(0.7 

)  


Foreign Tax Credit Carryforwards  

  

(2.4 

) 

(3.2 

) 

1.4 

   


U.S. Research & Development Tax Credits  

  

(1.0 

) 

(1.3 

) 

(2.0 

)  


Tax Settlement  

  

(5.5 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Wind Energy Tax Credit  

  

(0.1 

) 

(3.5 

) 

— 

   


Change in valuation allowance on net operating   losses 

  

(6.0 

) 

0.1 

  

2.0 

   


Total provision for income taxes  

  

$ 

41.6 

  

$ 

22.9 

  

$ 

22.0 

    
 
59





 
Included in the 2011 provision were certain tax benefits relating to the reversal of valuation allowances on net operating losses in certain foreign jurisdictions and U.S. foreign tax credit carryforwards as it became more likely than not that these deferred tax assets would be realized. The 2011 provision also reflects the favorable impact of a tax audit settlement in one of the foreign jurisdictions.
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we have no U.S. income tax provision for undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries.  We do not currently have any specific plans to repatriate funds from our international subsidiaries, however we may do so in the future if the distribution is a return of capital with no tax consequences or when a dividend can be remitted with no material tax impact.  Such earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested.  Estimating the tax liability that would result if these earnings were repatriated is not practicable at this time.
 
Deferred Income Taxes
 
Deferred income taxes result from tax attributes including foreign tax credits, net operating loss carryforwards and temporary differences between the recognition of items for income tax purposes and financial reporting purposes. Principal components of deferred income taxes as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Assets 

  

  

  

  

   


Net operating loss carryforwards  

  

$ 

64.2 

  

$ 

61.8 

   


Unfunded pension liability and other   postretirement obligations  

  

13.8 

  

14.5 

   


Accelerated amortization  

  

— 

  

7.4 

   


Advanced payments from foreign affiliates  

  

18.8 

  

— 

   


Tax credit carryforwards  

  

21.0 

  

34.4 

   


Stock based compensation 

  

11.3 

  

9.0 

   


Other comprehensive income  

  

13.4 

  

8.8 

   


Reserves and other  

  

14.7 

  

15.4 

   


Subtotal  

  

157.2 

  

151.3 

   


Valuation allowance  

  

(39.4 

) 

(36.5 

)  


Total assets  

  

$ 

117.8 

  

$ 

114.8 

   


Liabilities 

  

  

  

  

   


Accelerated depreciation  

  

(39.4 

) 

(29.0 

)  


Accelerated amortization  

  

(1.2 

) 

— 

   


Other  

  

(0.4 

) 

(0.8 

)  


Total liabilities  

  

(41.0 

) 

(29.8 

)  


Net deferred tax asset  

  

$ 

76.8 

  

$ 

85.0 

    
 
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as presented in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows and are recorded in prepaid expenses and other current assets, deferred tax assets, other accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Current deferred tax assets, net  

  

$ 

45.1 

  

$ 

23.3 

   


Current deferred tax liability, net  

  

(0.1 

) 

(0.1 

)  


Long-term deferred tax assets, net  

  

33.0 

  

63.6 

   


Long-term deferred tax liability, net  

  

(1.2 

) 

(1.8 

)  


Net deferred tax assets  

  

$ 

76.8 

  

$ 

85.0 

    
 
The deferred tax assets for the respective periods were assessed for recoverability and, where applicable, a valuation allowance was recorded to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the future. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 was an increase of $2.9 million and $5.7 million, respectively. The valuation allowance as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 relates primarily to net operating loss carryforwards of our foreign subsidiaries, certain state temporary differences, state net operating loss carryforwards, and foreign tax credit carryforwards for which we have determined, based upon historical results and projected future book and taxable income levels, that a valuation allowance should continue to be maintained.
 
60





 
Although realization is not assured, we have concluded that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets, for which a valuation allowance was determined to be unnecessary, will be realized in the ordinary course of operations based on the available positive and negative evidence, including scheduling of deferred tax liabilities and projected income from operating activities. The amount of the net deferred tax assets considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the near term if actual future income or income tax rates are lower than estimated, or if there are differences in the timing or amount of future reversals of existing taxable or deductible temporary differences.
 
Net Operating Loss & Tax Credit Carryforwards
 
At December 31, 2011, we had tax credit carryforwards for U.S. tax purposes of $21.0 million available to offset future income taxes, of which $1.5 million are available to carryforward indefinitely while the remaining $19.5 million will begin to expire, if not utilized, in 2012. We also have net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. and foreign income tax purposes of $37.8 million and $168.8 million, respectively. The use of our U.S. net operating losses generated prior to 2003 are limited because we had an “ownership change” pursuant to IRC Section 382 resulting from a refinancing of our capital structure.  We believe we will utilize all of the U.S. net operating losses prior to their expiration.
 
Our foreign net operating losses can be carried forward without limitation in Belgium, Luxembourg and UK. The carryforward period in Spain and China is limited to 18 and 5 years, respectively.  We have a full valuation allowance against certain foreign net operating losses for which the Company believes it is not more likely than not that the net operating losses will be utilized. The valuation allowance on the foreign net operating losses is $132.2 million as of December 31, 2011.
 
Uncertain Tax Positions
 
Our unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, relate to various Foreign and U.S. jurisdictions.
 
The following table summarizes the activity related to our unrecognized tax benefits:
 



(In millions) 

  

Unrecognized   Tax Benefits   2011 

  

Unrecognized   Tax Benefits   2010 

  

Unrecognized   Tax Benefits   2009 

   


Balance as of January1  

  

$ 

20.1 

  

$ 

19.4 

  

$ 

18.2 

   


Additions based on tax positions related to the   current year  

  

1.5 

  

2.6 

  

3.2 

   


Reductions for tax positions of prior years  

  

(1.1 

) 

— 

  

(1.8 

)  


Decreases relating to settlements with tax   authorities  

  

(6.7 

) 

— 

  

(0.1 

)  


Expiration of the statute of limitations for the assessment   of taxes 

  

(1.6 

) 

(0.5 

) 

(0.5 

)  


Other, including currency translation  

  

0.3 

  

(1.4 

) 

0.4 

   


Balance as of December 31  

  

$ 

12.5 

  

$ 

20.1 

  

$ 

19.4 

    
 
Included in the unrecognized tax benefits of $12.5 million at December 31, 2011 was $12.2 million of tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact our annual effective tax rate.  In addition, we recognize interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of interest expense and penalties as a component of income tax expense in the consolidated statements of operations. The Company recognized ($0.1) million, ($1.4) million, $0.2 million of interest expense (income) related to the above unrecognized tax benefits in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The Company had accrued interest of approximately $0.8 million and $0.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  During 2011 and 2010, we reversed interest of $0.2 million and $1.4 million respectively related to the unrecognized tax benefits.
 
We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various states and foreign jurisdictions.  The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for prior years; however the U.S. tax returns have been audited through 2007.  Foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. Years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include Austria (2006 onward), Belgium (2009 onward), France (2009 onward), Spain (2004 onward) and UK (2009 onward).  We are currently under examination in various foreign jurisdictions.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had uncertain tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that amounts of unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change over the next year.  These uncertain tax positions relate to our tax returns from 2004 onward, some of which are currently under examination by certain European tax authorities.  During 2011, the Company settled an audit with foreign tax authorities in one of the jurisdictions under examination. The favorable settlement resulted in a reduction of uncertain tax benefits of approximately $5.5 million which was recognized in 2011.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company has not classified any of the unrecognized tax benefits as a current liability as it does not expect to settle any of the tax positions under examinations in various jurisdictions within the next twelve months.
 
61





 
We expect that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will continue to change in the next twelve months as a result of ongoing tax deductions, the resolution of audits and the passing of the statute of limitations.
 
Note 10 - Capital Stock
 
Common Stock Outstanding
 
Common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:
 



(Number of shares in millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Common stock: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, beginning of year  

  

99.5 

  

98.6 

  

98.3 

   


Activity under stock plans  

  

1.5 

  

0.9 

  

0.3 

   


Balance, end of year  

  

101.0 

  

99.5 

  

98.6 

   


Treasury stock: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Balance, beginning of year  

  

2.2 

  

2.0 

  

1.9 

   


Issued under stock plans  

  

(0.5 

) 

— 

  

— 

   


Repurchased  

  

0.5 

  

0.2 

  

0.1 

   


Balance, end of year  

  

2.2 

  

2.2 

  

2.0 

   


Common stock outstanding  

  

98.8 

  

97.3 

  

96.6 

    
 
Note 11 — Stock-Based Compensation
 
The following table details the stock-based compensation expense by type of award for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In millions, except per share data) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Non-qualified stock   options  

  

$ 

4.1 

  

$ 

3.9 

  

$ 

3.4 

   


Restricted stock,   service based (“RSUs”)  

  

5.0 

  

4.9 

  

4.2 

   


Restricted stock,   performance based (“PRSUs”)  

  

4.7 

  

3.5 

  

0.7 

   


Employee stock purchase   plan  

  

0.1 

  

0.1 

  

— 

   


Stock-based compensation   expense  

  

13.9 

  

12.4 

  

8.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Tax benefit from stock   options exercised during the period  

  

$ 

8.5 

  

$ 

3.9 

  

$ 

3.1 

    
 
Non-Qualified Stock Options
 
Non-qualified stock options have been granted to our employees and directors under our stock compensation plan.  Options granted generally vest over three years and expire ten years from the date of grant.
 
A summary of option activity under the plan for the three years ended December 31, 2011 is as follows:
 



  

  

Number of   Options   (In millions) 

  

Weighted-   Average   Exercise Price 

  

Weighted-Average   Remaining   Contractual Life   (in years) 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2008  

  

3.4 

  

$ 

11.34 

  

4.82 

   


Options granted  

  

1.0 

  

$ 

7.60 

  

  

   


Options exercised  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

5.78 

  

  

   


Options expired or forfeited  

  

(0.2 

) 

$ 

8.33 

  

  

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2009  

  

4.1 

  

$ 

10.67 

  

5.06 

   


Options granted  

  

0.9 

  

$ 

10.92 

  

  

   


Options exercised  

  

(0.4 

) 

$ 

8.54 

  

  

   


Options expired or forfeited  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

14.68 

  

  

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2010  

  

4.5 

  

$ 

10.84 

  

5.16 

   


Options granted  

  

0.6 

  

$ 

19.19 

  

  

   


Options exercised  

  

(1.6 

) 

$ 

8.17 

  

  

   


Options expired or forfeited  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

12.93 

  

  

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2011  

  

3.4 

  

$ 

13.55 

  

6.45 

    
 
62





 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In millions, except weighted average exercise price) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding options 

  

$ 

38.0 

  

$ 

34.4 

   


Aggregate intrinsic value of exercisable options 

  

$ 

21.9 

  

$ 

24.0 

   


Total intrinsic value of options exercised 

  

$ 

22.7 

  

$ 

2.6 

   


Total number of options exercisable 

  

2.1 

  

2.9 

   


Weighted average exercise price of options   exercisable 

  

$ 

13.38 

  

$ 

11.15 

   


Total unrecognized compensation cost on nonvested   options (a) 

  

$ 

2.1 

  

$ 

1.8 

    
 




(a) 

Unrecognized   compensation cost relates to nonvested stock options and is expected to be   recognized over the remaining vesting period ranging from one year to three   years.   
 
The following table summarizes information about non-qualified stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2011:
 



  

  

Options Outstanding 

  

Options Exercisable 

   


Range of   Exercise Prices 

  

Number of   Options   Outstanding 

  

Weighted   Average   Remaining   Life (in Years) 

  

Weighted   Average   Exercise   Price 

  

Number of   Options   Exercisable 

  

Weighted   Average   Exercise   Price 

   


$ 

 2.74 – 3.13 

  

0.1 

  

1.07 

  

$ 

3.03 

  

0.1 

  

$ 

3.03 

   


$ 

 6.68 – 10.90 

  

1.7 

  

6.78 

  

$ 

9.09 

  

1.0 

  

$ 

8.47 

   


$ 

 14.51 – 21.11 

  

1.4 

  

6.60 

  

$ 

18.42 

  

0.8 

  

$ 

17.82 

   


$ 

 22.00 – 22.24 

  

0.2 

  

4.19 

  

$ 

22.01 

  

0.2 

  

$ 

22.01 

   


$ 

 2.74 – 22.24 

  

3.4 

  

6.45 

  

$ 

13.55 

  

2.1 

  

$ 

13.38 

    
 
Valuation Assumptions in Estimating Fair Value
 
We estimated the fair value of stock options at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Risk-free interest rate  

  

1.88 

% 

2.40 

% 

1.52 

%  


Expected option life (in years) Executive  

  

4.84 

  

5.51 

  

4.97 

   


Expected option life (in years) Non-Executive  

  

4.71 

  

4.40 

  

4.62 

   


Dividend yield  

  

— 

% 

— 

% 

— 

%  


Volatility  

  

44.08 

% 

49.20 

% 

61.75 

%  


Weighted-average fair value per option granted  

  

$ 

7.65 

  

$ 

4.95 

  

$ 

3.96 

   











  
 
We determine the expected option life for each grant based on ten years of historical option activity for two separate groups of employees (executive and non-executive).  The weighted-average expected life (“WAEL”) is derived from the average midpoint between the vesting and the contractual term and considers the effect of both the inclusion and exclusion of post-vesting cancellations during the ten-year period.  Expected volatility is calculated based on a blend of both historic volatility of our common stock and implied volatility of our traded options.  We weigh both volatility inputs equally and utilize the average as the volatility input for the Black-Scholes calculation.  The risk-free interest rate for the expected term is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant and corresponding to the expected term.  No dividends were paid in either period; furthermore, we do not plan to pay any dividends in the future.
 
Restricted Stock Units — Service Based
 
As of December 31, 2011, a total of 917,948 shares of service based restricted stock (“RSUs”) were outstanding, which vest based on years of service under the 2003 incentive stock plan.  RSUs are granted to key employees, executives and directors of the Company.  The fair value of the RSU is based on the closing market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and is amortized on a straight line basis over the requisite service period.  The stock-based compensation expense recognized is based on an estimate of shares ultimately expected to vest, and therefore it has been reduced for estimated forfeitures.
 
The table presented below provides a summary of the Company’s RSU activity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 
63





 



  

  

Number of   RSUs   (In millions) 

  

Weighted-   Average   Grant Date   Fair Value 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2008  

  

0.4 

  

$ 

20.17 

   


RSUs granted  

  

0.7 

  

$ 

8.42 

   


RSUs issued  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

20.09 

   


RSUs forfeited  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

9.46 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2009  

  

0.9 

  

$ 

12.21 

   


RSUs granted  

  

0.4 

  

$ 

11.41 

   


RSUs issued  

  

(0.3 

) 

$ 

12.91 

   


RSUs forfeited  

  

— 

  

$ 

10.00 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2010  

  

1.0 

  

$ 

11.76 

   


RSUs granted  

  

0.3 

  

$ 

20.63 

   


RSUs issued  

  

(0.4 

) 

$ 

12.51 

   


RSUs forfeited  

  

— 

  

$ 

11.62 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2011  

  

0.9 

  

$ 

14.49 

    
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSUs of $4.3 million, which is to be recognized over the remaining vesting period ranging from one year to three years.
 
Restricted Stock Units — Performance Based
 
As of December 31, 2011, a total of 670,262 shares of performance based restricted stock (“PRSUs”) were outstanding under the 2003 incentive stock plan.  The total amount of PRSUs that will ultimately vest is based on the achievement of various financial performance targets set forth by the Company’s Compensation Committee on the date of grant.  PRSUs issued prior to 2009 contain a one year service period restriction that commences immediately after the conclusion of a two year performance period.  Based on the formula no PRSU’s were earned for the 2008 award, accordingly they are shown on the table below as forfeited in 2009.  PRSUs issued in 2011, 2010 and 2009 are based on a three year performance period.  Based on current projections and performance targets, it is estimated that an additional 0.6 million performance shares may be issuable for the 2009, 2010 and 2011 awards.  The fair value of the PRSU is based on the closing market price of the Company’s common stock on the date of grant and is amortized straight-line over the total three year period.  A change in the performance measure expected to be achieved is recorded as an adjustment in the period in which the change occurs.
 
The table presented below provides a summary, of the Company’s PRSU activity, at original grant amounts, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 



  

  

Number of   PRSUs   (In millions) 

  

Weighted-   Average   Grant Date   Fair Value 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2008  

  

0.4 

  

$ 

19.74 

   


PRSUs granted  

  

0.4 

  

$ 

7.83 

   


PRSUs issued  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

20.97 

   


PRSUs forfeited  

  

(0.2 

) 

$ 

21.11 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2009  

  

0.5 

  

$ 

11.18 

   


PRSUs granted  

  

0.3 

  

$ 

10.95 

   


PRSUs issued  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

17.03 

   


PRSUs forfeited  

  

(0.1 

) 

$ 

7.37 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2010  

  

0.6 

  

$ 

9.77 

   


PRSUs granted  

  

0.1 

  

$ 

19.02 

   


PRSUs issued  

  

— 

  

$ 

22.18 

   


PRSUs forfeited  

  

— 

  

$ 

11.65 

   


Outstanding at   December 31, 2011  

  

0.7 

  

$ 

11.53 

    
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested PRSUs of $5.2 million, which is to be recognized over the remaining vesting period ranging from one year to three years.  The final amount of compensation cost to be recognized is dependent upon our financial performance.
 
64





 
Stock-Based Compensation Cash Activity
 
During 2011, cash received from stock option exercises and from employee stock purchases was $8.9 million.  We used $7.3 million in cash related to the shares withheld to satisfy employee tax obligations for NQOs exercised and RSUs converted during the year ended December 31, 2011.  We realized a tax benefit of $8.5 million in connection with stock options exercised and RSUs converted during 2011.
 
We classify the cash flows resulting from these tax benefits as financing cash flows.  We either issue new shares of our common stock or utilize treasury shares upon the exercise of stock options or the conversion of stock units.
 
Shares Authorized for Grant
 
As of December 31, 2011, an aggregate of 2.2 million shares were authorized for future grant under our stock plan, which covers stock options, RSUs, PRSUs and at the discretion of Hexcel, could result in the issuance of other types of stock-based awards.
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)
 
Beginning in October 2009, the Company offered an ESPP, which allows for eligible employees to contribute up to 10% of their base earnings toward the quarterly purchase of our common stock at a purchase price equal to 85% of the fair market value of the common stock.  There were 30,585 and 45,370 ESPP shares purchased in 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Note 12 - Net Income Per Common Share
 
Computations of basic and diluted net income per common share for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, are as follows:
 



(In millions, except per share data) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

135.5 

  

$ 

77.4 

  

$ 

56.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic net income per common   share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Weighted average common shares outstanding  

  

98.8 

  

97.6 

  

96.9 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic net income per common share  

  

$ 

1.37 

  

$ 

0.79 

  

$ 

0.58 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Diluted net income per common   share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Weighted average common shares outstanding — Basic    

  

98.8 

  

97.6 

  

96.9 

   


Plus incremental shares from   assumed conversions: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Restricted stock units  

  

0.9 

  

1.0 

  

0.6 

   


Stock options  

  

1.0 

  

1.3 

  

0.7 

   


Weighted average common shares outstanding —   Diluted  

  

100.7 

  

99.9 

  

98.2 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Diluted net income per common share  

  

$ 

1.35 

  

$ 

0.77 

  

$ 

0.57 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Anti-dilutive shares outstanding, excluded from   computation  

  

0.3 

  

0.8 

  

2.1 

    
 
Note 13 — Derivative Financial Instruments
 
Interest Rate Swap Agreements
 
In the fourth quarter 2010, we entered into an agreement to swap $98 million of a floating rate obligation for a fixed rate obligation at an average of 1.03% against LIBOR in U.S. dollars, which is scheduled to mature on March 31, 2014. The swap was accounted for as a cash flow hedge of our floating rate bank loan. To ensure the swap was highly effective, all of the principal terms of the swap matched the terms of the bank loan.  The fair value of the interest rate swap was a liability of $0.6 million at December 31, 2011.
 
Cross-Currency Interest Rate Swap Agreement
 
In September 2011, our cross-currency interest rate swap agreement, with a notional value of $63.4 million, to hedge a portion of our net Euro investment in Hexcel SASU (France) matured, resulting in a $5.2 million payment which is included in cash from investing activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows.  To the extent it was effective, gains and losses were recorded as an offset in the cumulative translation account, the same account in which translation gains and losses on the investment in Hexcel 
 
65





 
France SA were recorded. We received interest in U.S. dollars quarterly and paid interest in Euros on the same day.  U.S. interest was based on the three month LIBOR.  Euro interest was based on the three month EURIBOR.  The fair value of the swap at December 31, 2010 was a liability of $3.0 million.  Net charges to interest expense of $0.6 million and $0.3 million related to the interest coupons were recorded during 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The net amount of gains/losses included in the CTA adjustment during the reporting periods were a loss of $3.5 million, a gain of $5.4 million and a loss of $1.2 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Foreign Currency Forward Exchange Contracts
 
A number of our European subsidiaries are exposed to the impact of exchange rate volatility between the U.S. dollar and the subsidiaries’ functional currencies, being either the Euro or the British Pound Sterling.  We entered into contracts to exchange U.S. dollars for Euros and British Pound Sterling through May 2014.  The aggregate notional amount of these contracts was $168.9 million and $124.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The purpose of these contracts is to hedge a portion of the forecasted transactions of European subsidiaries under long-term sales contracts with certain customers.  These contracts are expected to provide us with a more balanced matching of future cash receipts and expenditures by currency, thereby reducing our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  The effective portion of the hedges was a gain of $2.9 million, $3.9 million and a loss of $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and are recorded in OCI.  We exclude the forward points which resulted in a gain of $1.4 million (recorded as a reduction of interest expense) from the effectiveness assessment for the current year, and immaterial amounts in 2010 and 2009.  The carrying amount of these contracts was $0.6 million in other assets and $6.6 million classified in other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  During the year ended December 31, 2011 we recognized net gains of $3.1 million recorded in sales and cost of sales. During the year ended December 31, 2010 we recognized net losses of $5.7 million recorded in sales and cost of sales.  For the three years ended December 31, 2011, hedge ineffectiveness was immaterial.  Cash flows associated with these contracts are classified within net cash provided by operating activities.
 
In addition, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts which are not designated as hedges. The change in the fair value of the derivatives is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations.  These are used to provide an offset to transactional gains or losses arising from the remeasurement of non-functional monetary assets and liabilities such as accounts receivable.  There are no credit contingency features in these derivatives.  The carrying amount of the contracts for asset and liability derivatives not designated as hedging instruments was $0.1 million classified in other assets and $3.8 million in other liabilities and $0.3 million classified in other assets and $1.7 million in other liabilities on the December 31, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.
 
The activity in “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)” related to foreign currency forward exchange contracts for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Unrealized losses at beginning   of period  

  

$ 

(0.2 

) 

$ 

(1.4 

) 

$ 

(8.9 

)  


Gains (losses) reclassified to net sales  

  

(2.2 

) 

3.9 

  

4.3 

   


(Decrease) increase in fair value, net of tax  

  

(2.1 

) 

(2.7 

) 

3.2 

   


Unrealized losses at end of   period  

  

$ 

(4.5 

) 

$ 

(0.2 

) 

$ 

(1.4 

)   
 
Unrealized losses of $2.2 million recorded in “accumulated other comprehensive loss,” net of tax, as of December 31, 2011 are expected to be reclassified into earnings over the next twelve months as the hedged sales are recorded.  The impact of credit risk adjustments was immaterial.
 
In addition, non-designated foreign exchange forward contracts are used to hedge balance sheet exposures, such as recognized foreign denominated receivables and payables. The notional amounts outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are U.S. $149.0 million against EUR, and U.S. $85.9 million and GBP 1.0 million against EUR. The change in fair value of these forward contracts is recorded in the consolidated statements of operations and was immaterial for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
Note 14 — Commitments and Contingencies
 
We are involved in litigation, investigations and claims arising out of the normal conduct of our business, including those relating to commercial transactions, environmental, employment, and health and safety matters.  We estimate and accrue our liabilities when a loss becomes probable and estimable. These judgments take into consideration a variety of factors, including the stage of the proceeding; potential settlement value; assessments by internal and external counsel; and assessments by environmental engineers and consultants of potential environmental liabilities and remediation costs.  Such estimates are not discounted to reflect the time value of money due to the uncertainty in estimating the timing of the expenditures, which may extend over several years.
 
66





 
While it is impossible to ascertain the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to certain contingent liabilities and claims, we believe, based upon our examination of currently available information, our experience to date, and advice from legal counsel, that the individual and aggregate liabilities resulting from the ultimate resolution of these contingent matters, after taking into consideration our existing insurance coverage and amounts already provided for, will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
Environmental Matters
 
We are subject to various U.S. and international federal, state and local environmental, and health and safety laws and regulations.  We are also subject to liabilities arising under the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”), the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and similar state and international laws and regulations that impose responsibility for the control, remediation and abatement of air, water and soil pollutants and the manufacturing, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and waste.
 
We have been named as a potentially responsible party (“PRP”) with respect to several hazardous waste disposal sites that we do not own or possess, which are included on, or proposed to be included on, the Superfund National Priority List of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or on equivalent lists of various state governments.  Because CERCLA allows for joint and several liability in certain circumstances, we could be responsible for all remediation costs at such sites, even if we are one of many PRPs.  We believe, based on the amount and nature of our waste, and the number of other financially viable PRPs, that our liability in connection with such matters will not be material.
 
Lodi, New Jersey Site
 
Pursuant to the New Jersey Industrial Site Recovery Act, Hexcel entered into an Administrative Consent Order for the environmental remediation of a manufacturing facility we own and formerly operated in Lodi, New Jersey.  We have been remediating this site in accordance with an approved plan.  In the first quarter of 2010, we implemented new technology to enhance the remediation system to accelerate completion of the remediation.  We had expected to substantially complete the remediation by the end of 2011, but severe regional flooding, most recently from hurricane Irene, extended the completion date to the first half of 2012 and increased the remediation costs.  Consequently, in 2011, we accrued an additional $2.5 million related to this extended remediation which increased the accrual to $2.8 million at December 30, 2011.
 
Lower Passaic River Study Area
 
In October 2003, we received, along with 66 other entities, a directive from the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (“NJDEP”) that requires the entities to assess whether operations at various New Jersey sites, including our former manufacturing site in Lodi, New Jersey, caused damage to natural resources in the Lower Passaic River watershed.  In May 2005, the NJDEP dismissed us from the Directive.  In February 2004, 42 entities including Hexcel, received a general notice letter from the EPA which requested that the entities consider helping to finance an estimated $10 million towards an EPA study of environmental conditions in the Lower Passaic River watershed.  In May 2005, we signed into an agreement with the EPA to participate (bringing the total number of participating entities to 43) in financing such a study up to $10 million, in the aggregate.  Since May 2005, a number of additional PRPs have joined into the agreement with the EPA.  In October 2005, we along with the other EPA notice recipients were advised by the EPA that the notice recipients’ share of the costs of the EPA study was expected to significantly exceed the earlier EPA estimate.  While we and the other recipients were not obligated by our agreement to share in such excess, a Group of notice recipients (73 companies including Hexcel) negotiated an agreement with the EPA to assume responsibility for the study pursuant to an Administrative Order on Consent.  We believe we have viable defenses to the EPA claims and expect that other as yet unnamed parties will also receive notices from the EPA.  In June 2007, the EPA issued a draft Focused Feasibility Study (“FFS”) that considers interim remedial options for the lower eight miles of the river, in addition to a “no action” option.  The estimated costs for the six options ranged from $900 million to $2.3 billion.  The PRP Group provided comments to the EPA on the FFS; the EPA has not yet taken further action.  The Administrative Order on Consent regarding the study does not cover work contemplated by the FFS.  Furthermore, the Federal Trustee for natural resources have indicated their intent to perform a natural resources damage assessment on the river and invited the PRPs to participate in the development and performance of this assessment.  The PRP Group, including Hexcel, has not agreed to participate in the assessment at this time.  Finally, on February 4, 2009, Tierra Solutions (“Tierra”) and Maxus Energy Corporation (“Maxus”) filed a third party complaint in New Jersey Superior Court against us and over 300 other entities in an action brought against Tierra and Maxus (and other entities) by the State of New Jersey.  New Jersey’s suit against Tierra and Maxus relates to alleged discharges of contaminants by Tierra and Maxus to the Passaic River and seeks payment of all past and future costs the State has and will incur regarding cleanup and removal of contaminants, investigation of the Passaic River and related water bodies, assessment of natural resource injuries and other specified injuries.  The third party complaint seeks contribution from us for all or part of the damages that Tierra and Maxus may owe to the State.  We filed our answer to the complaint and served our initial disclosures, and have produced initial documents to Tierra and Maxus, pursuant to an order of the court.  We expect additional discovery and litigation activities to occur during 2012.  The court has issued a trial plan that contemplates a liability trial for third-
 
67





 
party defendants (including Hexcel) in April 2013, with additional proceedings if necessary to allocate costs between third-party defendants in January 2014.  Our ultimate liability for investigatory costs, remedial costs and/or natural resource damages in connection with the Lower Passaic River cannot be determined at this time.
 
Kent, Washington Site
 
We were party to a cost-sharing agreement regarding the operation of certain environmental remediation systems necessary to satisfy a post-closure care permit issued to a previous owner of our Kent, Washington site by the EPA.  Under the terms of the cost-sharing agreement, we were obligated to reimburse the previous owner for a portion of the cost of the required remediation activities.  Management has determined that the cost-sharing agreement terminated in December 1998; however, the other party disputes this determination.  The Washington Department of Ecology (“Ecology”) has issued a unilateral Enforcement Order to us requiring us to (a) maintain the interim remedial system and to perform system separation, (b) to conduct a focused remedial investigation and (c) to conduct a focused feasibility study to develop recommended long term remedial measures.  We asserted defenses against performance of the order, particularly objecting to the remediation plan proposed by the previous owner, who still owns the adjacent contaminated site.  However, we are currently complying with the order, with one exception, without withdrawing our defenses.  As a result of a dispute resolution procedure, Hexcel and Ecology have reached an agreement to modify certain work requirements and to extend certain deadlines, and we are in full compliance with the order as modified.  The total accrued liability related to this matter was $1.4 million at December 31, 2011.
 
Omega Chemical Corporation Superfund Site, Whittier, CA
 
We are a potentially responsible party at a former chemical waste site in Whittier, CA. The PRPs at Omega have established a PRP Group, the “Omega PRP Group”, and are currently investigating and remediating soil and groundwater at the site pursuant to a Consent Decree with the EPA. Hexcel contributed approximately 1.07% of the waste tonnage sent to the site during its operations.  In addition to the Omega site specifically, the EPA is investigating the scope of regional groundwater contamination in the vicinity of the Omega site and recently issued a Record of Decision; the Omega PRP Group members have been noticed by the EPA as PRP’s who will be required to be involved in the remediation of the regional groundwater contamination in that vicinity as well.  As a member of the Omega PRP group, Hexcel will likely incur costs associated with the investigation and remediation of the Omega site, but our ultimate liability, if any, in connection with this matter cannot be determined at this time
 
Environmental remediation reserve activity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009 was as follows:
 



  

  

For the year ended 

   


(In millions) 

  

December 31,   2011 

  

December 31,   2010 

  

December 31,   2009 

   


Beginning remediation accrual balance  

  

$ 

7.3 

  

$ 

8.3 

  

$ 

9.2 

   


Current period expenses (a)  

  

3.4 

  

3.8 

  

1.9 

   


Cash expenditures  

  

(5.7 

) 

(4.8 

) 

(2.8 

)  


Ending remediation accrual balance  

  

$ 

5.0 

  

$ 

7.3 

  

$ 

8.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital expenditures for environmental matters  

  

$ 

4.1 

  

$ 

1.7 

  

$ 

4.8 

    

 


(a) 2011 and 2010 include $2.7 million and $3.5 million, respectively, of expenses for accelerating the completion of the remediation at the Lodi, New Jersey site.
 
Our estimate of liability as a PRP and our remaining costs associated with our responsibility to remediate the Lodi, New Jersey; Kent, Washington; and other sites are accrued in the consolidated balance sheets. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our aggregate environmental related accruals were $5.0 million and $7.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, $3.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively, were included in current other accrued liabilities, with the remainder included in other non-current liabilities.  As related to certain environmental matters, the accruals were estimated at the low end of a range of possible outcomes since no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount.  If we had accrued for these matters at the high end of the range of possible outcomes, our accrual would have been $6.8 million and $8.8 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
These accruals can change significantly from period to period due to such factors as additional information on the nature or extent of contamination, the methods of remediation required, changes in the apportionment of costs among responsible parties and other actions by governmental agencies or private parties, or the impact, if any, of being named in a new matter.
 
68





 
Product Warranty
 
Warranty expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and accrued warranty cost, included in “other accrued liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheets were as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

Product   Warranties 

   


Balance as of December 31,   2008  

  

$ 

3.8 

   


Warranty expense  

  

0.6 

   


Deductions and other  

  

(0.7 

)  


Balance as of December 31,   2009  

  

$ 

3.7 

   


Warranty expense  

  

1.9 

   


Deductions and other  

  

(1.3 

)  


Balance as of December 31,   2010  

  

$ 

4.3 

   


Warranty expense  

  

2.0 

   


Deductions and other  

  

(0.6 

)  


Balance as of December 31,   2011  

  

$ 

5.7 

    
 
Note 15 — Supplemental Cash Flow
 
Supplemental cash flow information, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, consisted of the following:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Cash paid for: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest  

  

$ 

15.5 

  

$ 

23.5 

  

$ 

27.8 

   


Taxes  

  

$ 

10.2 

  

$ 

(1.5 

) 

$ 

11.9 

    
 
Note 16 — Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss
 
Comprehensive income represents net income and other gains and losses affecting stockholders’ equity that are not reflected in the consolidated statements of operations.  The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were as follows:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Currency translation adjustments (a)  

  

$ 

(4.6 

) 

$ 

5.5 

   


Net unrealized gains (losses) on financial   instruments, net of tax (b)  

  

(4.8 

) 

0.2 

   


Pension obligation adjustment, net of tax (c)  

  

(30.4 

) 

(20.8 

)  


Accumulated other comprehensive loss  

  

$ 

(39.8 

) 

$ 

(15.1 

)   

 





(a) 

The   currency translation adjustments are not currently adjusted for income taxes   as they relate to indefinite investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.  


(b) 

Reduced   by the tax impact of $2.1 million and $0.2 million at December 31, 2011   and 2010, respectively.  


(c) 

Reduced   by the tax impact of $12.3 million and $9.0 million at December 31, 2011   and 2010, respectively.   
 
Note 17 — Segment Information
 
The financial results for our segments are prepared using a management approach, which is consistent with the basis and manner in which we internally segregate financial information for the purpose of assisting in making internal operating decisions.  We evaluate the performance of our segments based on operating income, and generally account for intersegment sales based on arm’s length prices.  We report two segments, Composite Materials and Engineered Products.  Corporate and certain other expenses are not allocated to the segments, except to the extent that the expense can be directly attributable to the segment. Corporate & Other is shown to reconcile to Hexcel’s consolidated results.
 
In addition to the product line-based segmentation of our business, we also monitor sales into our principal end markets as a means to understanding demand for our products.  Therefore, for each segment, we have also reported disaggregated sales by end market.
 
69





 
The following table presents financial information on our segments as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and for the years then ended.
 



(In millions) 

  

Composite   Materials 

  

Engineered   Products 

  

Corporate &   Other 

  

Total 

   


Third-Party Sales 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

1,074.5 

  

$ 

317.9 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

1,392.4 

   


2010  

  

904.5 

  

269.1 

  

— 

  

1,173.6 

   


2009  

  

856.5 

  

251.8 

  

— 

  

1,108.3 

   


Intersegment sales 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

53.8 

  

$ 

1.6 

  

$ 

(55.4 

) 

$ 

— 

   


2010  

  

38.7 

  

0.6 

  

(39.3 

) 

— 

   


2009  

  

27.2 

  

0.1 

  

(27.3 

) 

— 

   


Operating income (loss) 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

194.5 

  

$ 

51.6 

  

$ 

(54.1 

) 

$ 

192.0 

   


2010  

  

139.6 

  

45.7 

  

(55.5 

) 

129.8 

   


2009  

  

111.4 

  

36.0 

  

(43.7 

) 

103.7 

   


Depreciation  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

50.8 

  

$ 

4.3 

  

$ 

0.2 

  

$ 

55.3 

   


2010  

  

49.1 

  

3.9 

  

0.2 

  

53.2 

   


2009  

  

42.3 

  

4.1 

  

0.2 

  

46.6 

   


Equity in earnings from affiliated companies 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

1.6 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

1.6 

   


2010  

  

— 

  

0.5 

  

— 

  

0.5 

   


2009  

  

— 

  

0.7 

  

— 

  

0.7 

   


Other (income) expense, net 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

(5.7 

) 

$ 

— 

  

$ 

2.7 

  

$ 

(3.0 

)  


2010  

  

— 

  

— 

  

3.5 

  

3.5 

   


2009  

  

8.4 

  

— 

  

(0.9 

) 

7.5 

   


Segment assets 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

1,076.0 

  

$ 

192.3 

  

$ 

107.8 

  

$ 

1,376.1 

   


2010  

  

919.9 

  

176.8 

  

161.4 

  

1,258.1 

   


2009  

  

957.3 

  

172.9 

  

116.4 

  

1,246.6 

   


Investments in affiliated companies 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

21.7 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

21.7 

   


2010  

  

— 

  

19.9 

  

— 

  

19.9 

   


2009  

  

— 

  

17.7 

  

— 

  

17.7 

   


Accrual basis additions to property, plant and   equipment 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2011  

  

$ 

176.6 

  

$ 

6.9 

  

$ 

1.0 

  

$ 

184.5 

   


2010  

  

57.3 

  

3.3 

  

0.1 

  

60.7 

   


2009  

  

82.7 

  

2.4 

  

0.6 

  

85.7 

    
 
70





 
Geographic Data
 
Net sales and long-lived assets, by geographic area, consisted of the following for the three years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net sales by Geography (a): 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


United States  

  

$ 

721.5 

  

$ 

614.8 

  

$ 

532.6 

   


International 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


France  

  

257.6 

  

208.8 

  

203.7 

   


Spain  

  

142.6 

  

111.0 

  

95.1 

   


Austria  

  

95.5 

  

91.4 

  

144.4 

   


United Kingdom  

  

102.1 

  

85.9 

  

79.8 

   


Other  

  

73.1 

  

61.7 

  

52.7 

   


Total international  

  

670.9 

  

558.8 

  

575.7 

   


Total consolidated net sales  

  

$ 

1,392.4 

  

$ 

1,173.6 

  

$ 

1,108.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net Sales to External Customers   (b): 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


United States  

  

$ 

615.7 

  

$ 

528.1 

  

$ 

462.6 

   


International 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


France  

  

132.3 

  

107.5 

  

103.7 

   


Spain  

  

120.8 

  

95.6 

  

87.3 

   


Germany  

  

87.7 

  

76.5 

  

83.2 

   


United Kingdom  

  

80.2 

  

67.9 

  

61.2 

   


Other  

  

355.7 

  

298.0 

  

310.3 

   


Total international  

  

776.7 

  

645.5 

  

645.7 

   


Total  

  

$ 

1,392.4 

  

$ 

1,173.6 

  

$ 

1,108.3 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Long-lived assets (c): 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


United States  

  

$ 

568.2 

  

$ 

467.8 

  

$ 

458.8 

   


International 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Spain  

  

60.5 

  

58.4 

  

69.0 

   


France  

  

36.0 

  

36.3 

  

40.1 

   


United Kingdom  

  

68.4 

  

53.7 

  

48.1 

   


Other  

  

46.4 

  

38.3 

  

42.8 

   


Total international  

  

211.3 

  

186.7 

  

200.0 

   


Total consolidated long-lived assets  

  

$ 

779.5 

  

$ 

654.5 

  

$ 

658.8 

    
 



(a)          Net sales by geography based on the location in which the product sold was manufactured.
(b)          Net sales to external customers based on the location to which the product sold was delivered.
(c)          Long-lived assets primarily consist of property, plant and equipment, net and goodwill.
 
Significant Customers and Suppliers
 
Boeing and its subcontractors accounted for approximately 30%, 31% and 27% of 2011, 2010 and 2009 net sales, respectively.  Similarly, EADS, including Airbus and its subcontractors accounted for approximately 27%, 24% and 22% of 2011, 2010 and 2009 net sales, respectively.  In the Composites Materials segment approximately 20%, 22% and 18% of sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were to Boeing and its subcontractors.  Approximately 33%, 29% and 27% of sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively were to EADS and its subcontractors.  In the Engineered Products segment approximately 64%, 62% and 60% of sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively were to Boeing and its subcontractors.
 
A significant decline in business with Boeing, or EADS could materially impact our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition.
 
In 2009, Vestas Wind Systems A/S accounted for nearly 12% of the Company’s total net sales.  All of these sales are included in the Composite Materials segment and are in the Industrial market.  In 2011 and 2010, their sales were less than 10% of total net sales.
 
71





 
Certain key raw materials we consume are available from relatively few sources, and in many cases the cost of product qualification makes it impractical to develop multiple sources of supply. The lack of availability of these materials could under certain circumstances materially impact our consolidated results of operations.
 
Note 18 — Other (Income) Expense, net
 
Other (income) expense, net for the three years ended December 31, 2011, consisted of the following:
 



(In millions) 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Pension curtailment gain  

  

$ 

(5.7 

) 

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Environmental expense  

  

2.7 

  

3.5 

  

1.7 

   


Legal settlement expense  

  

— 

  

— 

  

7.5 

   


Contingent payment received on sale of EBGI   business  

  

— 

  

— 

  

(1.7 

)  


Other (income) expense, net  

  

$ 

(3.0 

) 

$ 

3.5 

  

$ 

7.5 

    
 
Effective January 31, 2011, credited service for the participants in our U.K. plan was frozen.  This resulted in recognizing $5.7 million of prior unrecognized service credits as a curtailment gain and also reduced the projected plan obligation by $1.6 million.  Also in 2011, the Company recorded an additional $2.7 million in expense for additional environmental reserves primarily to remediate our former Lodi, New Jersey manufacturing facility that was sold in 1986 as further discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
 
In 2010, the Company made a decision to enhance the remediation system to accelerate completion of the remediation and increased its environmental accruals for the Lodi, New Jersey site by $3.5 million.
 
In 2009, the Company recorded a $7.5 million charge related to a license agreement, settling a previously disclosed legal matter.  In addition, in 2009 the Company recorded a $1.7 million environmental expense due to an increase in the expected remediation costs at two previously sold operations. Also in 2009, the Company recorded a $1.7 million adjustment to a gain on a prior year sale of a business, primarily due to the receipt of an earnout payment from the buyer.
 
Note 19 — Non-operating Expense
 
In February 2011, we redeemed $150 million of our $225 million 6.75% senior subordinated notes at a call premium of 2.25%.  As a result of the redemption, we accelerated the unamortized financing costs of the senior subordinated notes redeemed and expensed the call premium incurring a pretax charge of $4.9 million.
 
In connection with the Company’s refinancing of its Senior Secured Credit Facility in July 2010, we recorded a charge of $6.8 million for the acceleration of amortization of deferred financing costs and the write-off of the remaining original issue discount associated with the previous agreement.
 
Note 20 — Fair Value measurements
 
The fair value of our financial instruments are classified in one of the following categories:
 
·                  Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs.
·                  Level 2: Observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets, but corroborated by market data.
·                  Level 3: Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs.
 
In determining fair value, we utilize valuation techniques that maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible as well as consider our own and counterparty credit risk.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, we did not have any assets or liabilities that utilize Level 3 inputs.
 
For derivative assets and liabilities that utilize Level 2 inputs we prepare estimates of future cash flows to be generated by our derivatives, which are discounted to a net present value.  The estimated cash flows and the discount factors used in the valuation model are based on observable inputs, and incorporate non-performance risk (the credit standing of the counterparty when the derivative is in a net asset position, and the credit standing of Hexcel when the derivative is in a net liability position).  The fair value of these assets and liabilities was approximately $0.6 million and $10.4 million, respectively at December 31, 2011.  Below is a summary of valuation techniques for all Level 2 financial assets and liabilities:
 
72





 
·                  Interest rate swap — valued using LIBOR yield curves at the reporting date.  Fair value of liability was $0.5 million at December 31, 2011.
·                  Foreign exchange derivative assets and liabilities — valued using quoted forward foreign exchange prices at the reporting date.  Fair value of assets and liabilities at December 31, 2011 was $0.6 million and $9.9 million, respectively.
 
Counterparties to these contracts are highly rated financial institutions none of which experienced any significant downgrades in 2011 that would significantly reduce the receivable amount owed, if any, to the Company.
 
Note 21 - Quarterly Financial and Market Data (Unaudited)
 
Quarterly financial and market data for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 were:
 



  

  

First 

  

Second 

  

Third 

  

Fourth 

   


(In millions) 

  

Quarter 

  

Quarter 

  

Quarter 

  

Quarter 

   


2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

331.6 

  

$ 

353.7 

  

$ 

351.8 

  

$ 

355.3 

   


Gross margin  

  

83.0 

  

87.0 

  

86.5 

  

85.6 

   


Other (income) expense, net  

  

(5.7 

) 

— 

  

2.7 

  

— 

   


Operating income  

  

47.2 

  

49.4 

  

46.0 

  

49.4 

   


Net income  

  

26.4 

  

37.4 

  

32.2 

  

39.5 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income per common share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

$ 

0.27 

  

$ 

0.38 

  

$ 

0.33 

  

$ 

0.40 

   


Diluted  

  

$ 

0.26 

  

$ 

0.37 

  

$ 

0.32 

  

$ 

0.39 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Market price: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


High  

  

$ 

20.69 

  

$ 

21.90 

  

$ 

24.23 

  

$ 

25.84 

   


Low  

  

$ 

17.58 

  

$ 

18.78 

  

$ 

18.07 

  

$ 

21.34 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net sales  

  

$ 

263.0 

  

$ 

305.1 

  

$ 

294.5 

  

$ 

311.0 

   


Gross margin  

  

66.1 

  

78.4 

  

70.5 

  

67.6 

   


Other (income) expense, net  

  

3.5 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Operating income  

  

23.8 

  

40.5 

  

34.5 

  

31.0 

   


Net income  

  

15.8 

  

23.1 

  

15.6 

  

22.9 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income per common share: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic  

  

$ 

0.16 

  

$ 

0.24 

  

$ 

0.16 

  

$ 

0.23 

   


Diluted  

  

$ 

0.16 

  

$ 

0.23 

  

$ 

0.16 

  

$ 

0.23 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Market price: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


High  

  

$ 

14.44 

  

$ 

17.28 

  

$ 

19.21 

  

$ 

19.08 

   


Low  

  

$ 

10.13 

  

$ 

14.01 

  

$ 

15.06 

  

$ 

15.67 

    
 
73





 
Schedule II
 
Hexcel Corporation and Subsidiaries
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
 



(In millions) 

  

Balance at   beginning   of year 

  

Charged to   expense/(recovery) 

  

Deductions   and other 

  

Balance   at end of   year 

   


Year ended December 31,   2011 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for doubtful accounts  

  

$ 

1.5 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

(0.3 

) 

$ 

1.2 

   


Allowance for deferred tax assets  

  

36.5 

  

10.5 

  

(7.6 

) 

39.4 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year ended December 31,   2010 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for doubtful accounts  

  

$ 

1.9 

  

$ 

(0.1 

) 

$ 

(0.3 

) 

$ 

1.5 

   


Allowance for deferred tax assets  

  

30.8 

  

11.2 

  

(5.5 

) 

36.5 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year ended December 31,   2009 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for doubtful accounts  

  

$ 

2.1 

  

$ 

0.1 

  

$ 

(0.3 

) 

$ 

1.9 

   


Allowance for deferred tax assets  

  

16.1 

  

14.7 

  

— 

  

30.8 

    
 
74







