
10-K
1
a2208025z10-k.htm
10-K






 










Table of Contents 

 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549  
 FORM 10-K  
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934  
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011  
 Commission file number 0-12422  
MAINSOURCE FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 













Indiana (State or other jurisdiction
of incorporation or organization)
 
35-1562245 (I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)



2105 North State Road 3 Bypass
Greensburg, Indiana 47240 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)


 Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (812) 663-6734


 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:


Title of each class Common shares, no par value
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC


 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None




Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes
o No ý 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes
o No ý 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes ý No o 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the previous 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes ý No o 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. o 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See
definitions of "large accelerated filer", "accelerated filer", and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 















Large accelerated filer o
 
 Accelerated filer ý
 
 Non-accelerated filer o
 
 Smaller reporting company o


 
 
 
 
 (Do not check if a smaller
reporting company)
 
 




Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes o No
ý 
The aggregate market value (not necessarily a reliable indication of the price at which more than a limited number of shares would trade) of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $167,570,211 as of June 30, 2011. 
As
of March 12, 2012, there were outstanding 20,214,964 common shares, without par value, of the registrant. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE











Documents



 
Part of Form 10-K
Into Which Incorporated





Definitive Proxy Statement for Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held
April 25, 2012
 
 Part III (Items 10 through 14)





 
1




 










Table of Contents 
 
 FORM 10-K  
 TABLE OF CONTENTS  

 














  PART I
 
 Page


 Item 1
 
 Business
 
 3


Item 1A
 
 Risk Factors
 
 9


Item 1B
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 15


Item 2
 
 Properties
 
 15


Item 3
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 15


Item 4
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 15



 
 

 
 

 


 PART II
 
 


 Item 5
 
 Market For Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 16


Item 6
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 18


Item 7
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 19


Item 7A
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
 33


Item 8
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 34


Item 9
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
 73


Item 9A
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 73


Item 9B
 
 Other Information
 
 73



 
 

 
 

 


  PART III
 
 


 Item 10
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
 See below


Item 11
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 See below


Item 12
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
 See below


Item 13
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
 See below


Item 14
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
 See below



 
 

 
 

 


  PART IV
 
 


 Item 15
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
 
 74





        Pursuant to General Instruction G, the information called for by Items 10-14 is omitted by MainSource Financial
Group, Inc. since MainSource Financial Group, Inc. will file with the Commission a definitive proxy statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year containing the information required by Items 10-14. 
2




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
PART I.   
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data) 
 
    ITEM 1.   BUSINESS     
 General  
        MainSource Financial Group, Inc. ("MainSource" or the "Company") is an Indiana corporation and bank holding company, within the
meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHC Act"), that has elected to become a financial holding company ("FHC"). The Company is based in Greensburg, Indiana. As of
December 31, 2011, the Company operated one banking subsidiary: MainSource Bank ("the Bank"), an Indiana state chartered bank. Through its non-bank affiliates, the Company provides
services incidental to the business of banking. Since its formation in 1982, the Company has acquired and established various institutions and financial services companies and may acquire additional
financial institutions and financial services companies in the future. For further discussion of the business of the Company see Management's Discussion and Analysis in Part II, Item 7. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the Company operated 80 branch banking offices in Indiana, Illinois, Ohio and Kentucky. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had consolidated
assets of $2,754,180, consolidated deposits of $2,159,900 and shareholders' equity of $336,553. 
        Through
the Bank, the Company offers a broad range of financial services, including: accepting time and transaction deposits; making consumer, commercial, agribusiness and real estate
mortgage loans; renting safe deposit facilities; providing personal and corporate trust services; and providing other corporate services such as letters of credit and repurchase agreements. 
        The
lending activities of the Bank are separated into primarily the categories of commercial, commercial real estate, residential, and consumer. Loans are originated by the lending
officers of the Bank subject to limitations set forth in lending policies. The Board of Directors of the Bank monitors concentrations of credit, problem and past due loans and charge-offs
of uncollectible loans and approves loan policy. The Bank maintains conservative loan policies and underwriting practices in order to address and manage loan risks. These policies and practices
include granting loans on a sound and collectible basis, serving the legitimate needs of the community and the general market area while obtaining a balance between maximum yield and minimum risk,
ensuring that primary and secondary sources of repayment are adequate in relation to the amount of the loan, developing and maintaining adequate diversification of the loan portfolio as a whole and of
the loans within each category and developing and applying adequate collection policies. 
        Commercial
loans include secured and unsecured loans, including real estate loans, to individuals and companies and to governmental units predominantly within the market area of the Bank
for a myriad of business purposes. 
        Agricultural
loans are generated in the Bank's markets. Most of the loans are real estate loans on farm properties. Loans are also made for agricultural production and such loans are
generally reviewed annually. 
        Residential
real estate lending has been the largest component of the loan portfolio for many years. The Bank generates residential mortgages for its own portfolio. However, the Company
elects to sell the majority of its fixed rate mortgages into the secondary market while maintaining the servicing of such loans. At December 31, 2011, the Company was servicing a
$780 million residential real estate loan portfolio. By originating loans for sale in the secondary market, the Company can more fully satisfy customer demand for fixed rate residential
mortgages and increase fee income, while reducing the risk of loss caused by rising interest rates. 
        The
principal source of revenues for the Company is interest and fees on loans, which accounted for 55.7% of total revenues in 2011, 59.8% in 2010 and 63.2% in 2009. 
        The
Company's investment securities portfolio is primarily comprised of state and municipal bonds; U. S. government sponsored entity's mortgage-backed securities and collateralized
mortgage obligations; and corporate securities. The Company has classified its entire investment portfolio as available for sale, with fair value changes reported separately in shareholders' equity.
Funds invested in the investment portfolio generally represent funds not immediately required to meet loan demand. Income related to the Company's investment portfolio accounted for 17.0% of total
revenues in 2011, 16.6% in 2010 and 14.8% in 2009. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had not identified any securities as being "high risk" as defined by the FFIEC Supervisory Policy
Statement on Securities Activities. 
        The
primary source of funds for the Bank is deposits generated in local market areas. To attract and retain stable depositors, the Bank markets various programs for demand, savings and
time deposit accounts. These programs include interest and non-interest bearing demand and individual retirement accounts. 
3



 
Table of Contents
        Currently,
national retailing and manufacturing subsidiaries, brokerage and insurance firms and credit unions are fierce competitors within the financial services industry. Mergers
between financial institutions within Indiana and neighboring states, which became permissible under the Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, have also added competitive pressure. 
        The
branches of the Bank are located in predominantly non-metropolitan areas and the Bank's business is centered in loans and deposits generated within markets considered
largely rural in nature. In addition to competing vigorously with other banks, thrift institutions, credit unions and finance companies located within their service areas, we also compete, directly
and indirectly, with all providers of financial services. 
 Employees  
        As of December 31, 2011, the Company and its subsidiaries had 805 full-time equivalent employees to whom they
provide a variety of benefits and with whom they enjoy excellent relations. None of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. 
 Regulation and Supervision  
        The Company is a financial holding company ("FHC") within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. As a FHC,
the Company is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board ("FRB"). The Bank is an Indiana state chartered bank subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") and the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions. The following is a discussion of material statutes and regulations affecting the Company and the Bank. The discussion is
qualified in its entirety by reference to such statutes and regulations. 

 Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended  

        Generally, the BHC Act governs the acquisition and control of banks and nonbanking companies by bank holding companies. A bank holding
company is subject to regulation by and is required to register with the FRB under the BHC Act. The BHC Act requires a bank holding company to file an annual report of its operations and such
additional information as the FRB may require. The FRB has issued regulations under the BHC Act requiring a bank holding company to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its
subsidiary banks. It is the policy of the FRB that, pursuant to this requirement, a bank holding company should stand ready to use its resources to provide adequate capital funds to its subsidiary
banks during periods of financial stress or adversity. 
        The
acquisition of 5% or more of the voting shares of any bank or bank holding company generally requires the prior approval of the FRB and is subject to applicable federal and state
law, including the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 ("Riegle-Neal") for interstate transactions. The FRB evaluates acquisition applications
based on, among other things, competitive factors, supervisory factors, adequacy of financial and managerial resources, and banking and community needs considerations. 
        The
BHC Act also prohibits, with certain exceptions, a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any
"nonbanking" company unless the nonbanking activities are found by the FRB to be "so closely related to banking . . . as to be a proper incident thereto." Under current regulations of the FRB, a bank
holding company and its nonbank subsidiaries are permitted, among other activities, to engage in such banking-related business ventures as consumer finance, equipment leasing, data processing,
mortgage banking, financial and investment advice, and securities brokerage services. The BHC Act does not place territorial restrictions on the activities of a bank holding company or its nonbank
subsidiaries. 
        Federal
law prohibits acquisition of "control" of a bank or bank holding company without prior notice to certain federal bank regulators. "Control" is defined in certain cases as the
acquisition of as little as 10% of the outstanding shares of any class of voting stock. Furthermore, under certain circumstances, a bank holding company may not be able to purchase its own stock,
where the gross consideration will equal 10% or more of the company's net worth, without obtaining approval of the FRB. Under the Federal Reserve Act, banks and their affiliates are subject to certain
requirements and restrictions when dealing with each other (affiliate transactions include transactions between a bank and its bank holding company). 

 Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999.  

        The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Modernization Act of 1999 (the "Modernization Act") was enacted on November 12, 1999. The
Modernization Act, which amended the BHC Act, provides the following:


•it allows bank holding companies that qualify as "financial holding companies" to engage in a broad range of financial and
related activities; 
•it allows insurers and other financial services companies to acquire banks; 

4



 
Table of Contents


•it removes various restrictions that applied to bank holding company ownership of securities firms and mutual fund
advisory companies; and 
•it establishes the overall regulatory structure applicable to bank holding companies that also engage in insurance and
securities operations. 

        The
Company initially qualified as a financial holding company in December, 2004. Thus the Company is authorized to operate as a financial holding company and is eligible to engage in,
or acquire companies engaged in, the broader range of activities that are permitted by the Modernization Act. These activities include those that are determined to be "financial in nature," including
insurance underwriting, securities underwriting and dealing, and making merchant banking investments in commercial and financial companies. If a banking subsidiary ceases to be "well capitalized" or
"well managed" under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB may, among other things, place limitations on our ability to conduct these broader
financial activities or, if the deficiencies persist, require us to divest the banking subsidiary. In addition, if a banking subsidiary receives a rating of less than satisfactory under the Community
Reinvestment Act of 1977 ("CRA"), we would be prohibited from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. 

 Bank Secrecy Act and USA Patriot Act  

        In 1970, Congress enacted the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act, commonly known as the Bank Secrecy Act (the "BSA"). The
BSA requires financial institutions to maintain records of certain customers and currency transactions and to report certain domestic and foreign currency transactions, which may have a high degree of
usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings. Under this law, financial institutions are required to develop a BSA compliance program. 
        In
2001, the President signed into law comprehensive anti-terrorism legislation known as the USA Patriot Act. Title III of the USA Patriot Act requires financial
institutions, including the Company and the Bank, to help prevent and detect international money laundering and the financing of terrorism and prosecute those involved in such activities. The
Department of the Treasury has adopted additional requirements to further implement Title III. 
        Under
these regulations, a mechanism has been established for law enforcement officials to communicate names of suspected terrorists and money launderers to financial institutions to
enable financial institutions to promptly locate accounts and transactions involving those suspects. Financial institutions receiving names of suspects must search their account and transaction
records for potential matches and report positive results to the U.S. Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ("FinCEN"). Each financial institution must designate a point of
contact to receive information requests. These regulations outline how financial institutions can share information concerning suspected terrorist and money laundering activity with other financial
institutions under the protection of a statutory safe harbor if each financial institution notifies FinCEN of its intent to share information. The Department of the Treasury has also adopted
regulations intended to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing through correspondent accounts maintained by U.S. financial institutions on behalf of foreign banks. Financial institutions are
required to take reasonable steps to ensure that they are not providing banking services directly or indirectly to foreign shell banks. In addition, banks must have procedures in place to verify the
identity of the persons with whom they deal. 

 FDIC Improvement Act of 1991  

        The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 ("FDICIA") requires, among other things, federal bank regulatory
authorities to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to banks which do not meet minimum capital requirements. For these purposes, FDICIA establishes five capital tiers: well capitalized,
adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. The FDIC has adopted regulations to implement the prompt corrective action provisions of
FDICIA. 
        "Undercapitalized"
banks are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. A bank's compliance with such plan is required to be guaranteed by the
bank's parent holding company. If an "undercapitalized" bank fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if it is significantly undercapitalized. "Significantly undercapitalized" banks
are subject to one or more restrictions, including an order by the FDIC to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cease receipt of
deposits from correspondent banks, and restrictions on compensation of executive officers. "Critically undercapitalized" institutions may not, beginning 60 days after becoming "critically
undercapitalized," make any payment of principal or interest on certain subordinated debt or extend credit for a highly leveraged transaction or enter into any transaction outside the ordinary course
of business. In addition, "critically undercapitalized" institutions are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. 
        A
"well capitalized" institution is one that has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a
leverage ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to regulatory direction to maintain a specific level for any capital measure. An "adequately capitalized" institution is one that has ratios greater
than 8%, 4% and 4%. An institution is "undercapitalized" if its respective ratios are less than 8%, 4% and 4%. "Significantly undercapitalized" institutions have ratios of 
5



 
Table of Contents
less
than 6%, 3% and 3%. An institution is deemed to be "critically undercapitalized" if it has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is 2% or less. 

 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act  

        The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act") represents a comprehensive revision of laws affecting corporate
governance, accounting obligations and corporate reporting. Among other requirements, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act established: (i) requirements for audit committees of public companies, including
independence and expertise standards; (ii) additional responsibilities regarding financial statements for the chief executive officers and chief financial officers of reporting companies;
(iii) standards for auditors and regulation of audits; (iv) increased disclosure and reporting obligations for reporting companies regarding various matters relating to corporate
governance, and (v) new and increased civil and criminal penalties for violation of the securities laws. 

 Deposit Insurance Fund  

        The deposits of the Bank are insured to the maximum extent permitted by law by the Deposit Insurance Fund ("DIF") of the FDIC, which
was created in 2006 as the result of the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the "FDI
Act"). The FDIC maintains the DIF by assessing depository institutions an insurance premium. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC is required to set a DIF reserve ratio of 1.35% of
estimated insured deposits and is required to achieve this ratio by September 30, 2020. Also, the Dodd-Frank Act has eliminated the 1.50% ceiling on the reserve ratio and provides
that the FDIC is no longer required to refund amounts in the DIF that exceed 1.50% of insured deposits. 
        During
the second quarter of 2009, the FDIC levied an industry-wide special assessment charge on insured financial institutions as part of the agency's efforts to rebuild the
DIF. In November 2009, the FDIC amended regulations that required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all
of the years of 2010-2012. The prepaid assessments is applied against future quarterly assessments (as they may be so revised) until the prepaid assessment is exhausted or the balance of
the prepayment is returned, whichever occurs first. 
        Under
the FDIC's risk-based assessment system, insured institutions are required to pay deposit insurance premiums based on the risk that each institution poses to the DIF.
An institution's risk to the DIF is measured by its regulatory capital levels, supervisory evaluations, and certain other factors. An institution's assessment rate depends upon the risk category to
which it is assigned. As noted above, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC will calculate an institution's assessment level based on its total average consolidated assets during the
assessment period less average tangible equity (i.e., Tier 1 capital) as opposed to an institution's deposit level which was the previous basis for calculating insurance assessments.
Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, institutions will be placed into one of four risk categories for purposes of determining the institution's actual assessment rate. The FDIC will determine
the risk category based on the institution's capital position (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, or undercapitalized) and supervisory condition (based on exam reports and related information
provided by the institution's primary federal regulator). 

 Dividends  

        The Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which the Bank
can supply funds to the Company. The principal source of the Company's funds consists of dividends from the Bank. State and Federal law restricts the amount of dividends that may be paid by banks. In
addition, the Bank is subject to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to the Company, on investments in the stock or other securities of the Company and in taking such stock or securities as
collateral for loans. 

 Community Reinvestment Act  

        The Community Reinvestment Act requires that the federal banking regulators evaluate the records of a financial institution in meeting
the credit needs of its local community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. These factors are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or
facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could result in the imposition of additional requirements and limitations on the Bank. 

 Capital Requirements  

        As discussed above, the Company and the Bank must meet certain minimum capital requirements mandated by each of their state or federal
regulators. These regulatory agencies require BHCs and banks to maintain certain minimum ratios of primary capital to total assets and total capital to total assets. The FRB requires BHCs to
maintain a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3% capital to total assets; however, for all but the most highly rated institutions which do not anticipate significant growth, the minimum
Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% plus an additional cushion of 100 to 200 basis points. As of December 31, 2011, the Company's leverage ratio of 
6



 
Table of Contents
capital
to total assets was 10.8%. The FRB and FDIC each have approved the imposition of "risk-adjusted" capital ratios on BHCs and financial institutions. The Company's Tier 1
Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio was 17.6% and its Total Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets Ratio was 18.9% at December 31, 2011. The Bank had capital to asset ratios
and risk- adjusted capital ratios at December 31, 2010, in excess of the applicable minimum regulatory requirements. 

 Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008  

        In October 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 ("EESA") was enacted. The EESA authorized Treasury to purchase from
financial institutions and their holding companies up to $700 billion in mortgage loans, mortgage- related securities and certain other financial instruments, including debt and equity
securities issued by financial institutions and their holding companies in a troubled asset relief program ("TARP"). The purpose of TARP was to restore confidence and stability to the U.S. banking
system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. EESA also increased the amount of deposit insurance provided by the FDIC. 
        The
U.S. Department of the Treasury ("Treasury"), working with the Federal Reserve Board, established late in 2008 the TARP Capital Purchase Program ("CPP"), which was intended to
stabilize the financial services industry. One of the components of the CPP included a $250 billion voluntary capital purchase program for certain qualified and healthy banking institutions.
Pursuant to the CPP, Treasury purchased from the Company 57,000 shares of $1,000 par value senior perpetual preferred securities at a price of $57 million equal to approximately 3.0% of the
Company's then risk-weighted assets. Such preferred shares pay a dividend of 5% for the first five years and will increase to 9% thereafter. In connection with the Company's participation
in the CPP, Treasury also received a warrant for the purchase of common stock in the amount of 571,906 shares at a strike price of $14.95 per share. The warrant expires on January 16, 2019. 

 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009  

        On February 17, 2009, President Barack Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ("ARRA"), more commonly
known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package. ARRA included a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and
education needs. In addition, ARRA imposed new executive compensation and corporate governance limits on current and future participants in the CPP, including the Company, which are in addition to
those previously announced by Treasury. These limits remain in place until the participant has redeemed the preferred stock sold to Treasury, which is now permitted under ARRA without penalty and
without the need to raise new capital, subject to Treasury's consultation with the recipient's appropriate federal regulator. On June 10, 2009, Treasury released an interim final rule,
effective June 15, 2009, that provided
guidance on the compensation and governance standards for participants in the CPP, and promulgated regulations to implement the restrictions and standards set forth in ARRA. Among other things,
Treasury's final rule and ARRA significantly expanded the executive compensation restrictions previously imposed by EESA. 

 The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  

        On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the sweeping financial regulatory reform act entitled the
"Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act" (Dodd-Frank Act). The Dodd-Frank Act implements far-reaching changes to the regulation of
the financial services industry, including provisions that, among other things will:


•centralize responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency (the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau) responsible for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws with broad rulemaking, supervision and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer
protection laws that would apply to all banks and thrifts; smaller financial institutions, including the Company, will be subject to the supervision and enforcement of their primary federal banking
regulator with respect to the federal consumer financial protection laws; 
•require the FDIC to seek to make its capital requirements for banks countercyclical so that the amount of capital required
to be maintained increases in times of economic expansion and decreases in times of economic contraction; 
•change the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated assets less
tangible capital; 
•implement corporate governance revisions, including with regard to executive compensation and proxy access by
stockholders, that apply to all public companies, not just financial institutions; 
•make permanent the $250,000 limit for federal deposit insurance and increase the cash limit of Securities Investor
Protection Corporation protection from $100,000 to $250,000, and provide unlimited federal deposit insurance until January 1, 2013, for non-interest bearing demand transaction
accounts at all insured depository institutions; 
•repeal the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions
to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts starting July 2011; and 

7



 
Table of Contents


•increase the authority of the Federal Reserve to examine the Company and its non-bank subsidiaries. 

        The
Dodd-Frank Act includes certain provisions concerning the capital regulations of the United States banking regulators, which are often referred to as the "Collins
Amendment." These provisions are intended to subject bank holding companies to the same capital requirements as their bank subsidiaries and to eliminate or significantly reduce the use of hybrid
capital instruments, especially trust preferred securities, as regulatory capital. Under the Collins Amendment, trust preferred securities issued by a company, such as the Company, with total
consolidated assets of less than $15 billion before May 19, 2010 and treated as regulatory capital are grandfathered, but any such securities issued later are not eligible as regulatory
capital. The banking regulators must develop regulations setting minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements for holding companies and banks on a consolidated basis that are no
less stringent than the generally applicable requirements in effect for depository institutions under prompt corrective action regulations. The banking regulators also must seek to make capital
standards countercyclical so that the required levels of capital increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. 
        Many
aspects of the act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on the Company, its customers or
the financial industry more generally. Provisions in the legislation that affect deposit insurance assessments and payment of interest on demand deposits could increase the costs associated with
deposits as well as place limitations on certain revenues those deposits may generate. 

 S.A.F.E. Act Requirements  

        Regulations issued under the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008 (the "S.A.F.E. Act") require residential
mortgage loan originators who are employees of institutions regulated by the foregoing agencies, including national banks, to meet the registration requirements of the S.A.F.E. Act. The S.A.F.E. Act
requires residential mortgage loan originators who are employees of regulated financial institutions to be registered with the Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry, a database created by
the Conference of State Bank Supervisors and the American Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators to support the licensing of mortgage loan originators by the states. Employees of regulated
financial institutions are generally prohibited from originating residential mortgage loans unless they are registered. 

 Future Legislation  

        In addition to the specific legislation described above, various additional legislation is currently being considered by Congress. This
legislation may change banking statutes and the Company's operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways and may increase reporting requirements and governance. If enacted, such
legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other
financial institutions. The Company cannot predict whether any potential legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on its business,
results of operations, or financial condition. 

 Other Regulatory Developments  

        In December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee published the final texts of reforms on capital and liquidity
generally referred to as "Basel III." Although Basel III is intended to be implemented by participating countries for large, internationally active banks, its provisions are likely to be
considered by United States banking regulators in developing new regulations applicable to other banks in the United States, including the Bank. 
        For
banks in the United States, among the most significant provisions of Basel III concerning capital are the following:


•a minimum ratio of common equity to risk-weighted assets reaching 4.5%, plus an additional 2.5% as a capital
conservation buffer, by 2019 after a phase-in period; 
•a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets reaching 6.0% by 2019 after a
phase-in period; 
•a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets, plus the additional 2.5% capital conservation
buffer, reaching 10.5% by 2019 after a phase-in period; 
•an additional countercyclical capital buffer to be imposed by applicable national banking regulators periodically at their
discretion, with advance notice; 
•restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses applicable when capital ratios fall within the buffer
zone; 
•deduction from common equity of deferred tax assets that depend on future profitability to be realized;  
•increased capital requirements for counterparty credit risk relating to over the counter derivatives, repos and securities
financing activities; and 

8



 
Table of Contents


•for capital instruments issued on or after January 13, 2013 (other than common equity), a
loss-absorbency requirement such that the instrument must be written off or converted to common equity if a trigger event occurs, either pursuant to applicable law or at the direction of
the banking regulator. A trigger event is an event under which the banking entity would become nonviable without the write-off or conversion, or without an injection of capital from the
public sector. The issuer must maintain authorization to issue the requisite shares of common equity if conversion were required. 

        The
Basel III provisions on liquidity include complex criteria establishing the liquidity coverage ratio ("LCR") and the net stable funding ratio ("NSFR"). The purpose of the LCR
is to ensure that a bank maintains adequate unencumbered, high quality liquid assets to meet its liquidity needs for 30 days under a severe liquidity stress scenario. The purpose of the NSFR is
to promote more medium and long-term funding of assets and activities, using a one-year horizon. Although Basel III is described as a "final text," it is subject to the
resolution of certain issues and to further guidance and modification, as well as to adoption by United States banking regulators, including decisions as to whether and to what extent it will apply to
United States banks that are not large, internationally active banks.  
 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS     
        In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risks may affect us. If any of these risks actually occur,
our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the price of our common shares could decline. 
 Risks Related to the Company's Business  
 Difficult conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally have affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  
        From 2007 through 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S.
was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are
still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. 
        Market
conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based financial institutions. These failures, as well
as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to a significant increase in deposit
insurance premiums paid by financial institutions. 
        The
Company's financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing
those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services that the Company offers, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates and in the
United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment, high
business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or
business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters, or a combination of
these or other factors. 
        During
2011, the business environment continued to be adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and worldwide. While economic conditions in the United States and
worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Such conditions have affected, and could continue to adversely affect, the credit quality of the
Company's loans, results of operations and financial condition. 
9




 











Table of Contents 
 Recently enacted and potential further financial regulatory reforms could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  
        On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
"Dodd-Frank Act") into law. The Dodd-Frank Act is expected to have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes.
Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the
uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the
impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of business activities, require changes to
certain business practices, impose more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the
Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others:


•a reduction in the ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened
capital standards; 
•increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding
companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; 
•the limitation on the ability to raise new capital through the use of trust preferred securities, as any new issuances of
these securities will no longer be included as Tier 1 capital going forward; 
•a potential reduction in fee income due to limits on interchange fees applicable to larger institutions which could
effectively reduce the fees we can charge; and 
•the limitation on the ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer
protection laws and regulations. 

        Further,
we may be required to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes necessary to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements
under the Dodd-Frank Act, which may negatively impact results of operations and financial condition. 
        We
cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be
adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced or how such changes may affect us. However, the costs of complying with any additional laws or regulations could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
 Like most banking organizations, a significant portion of our assets consists of loans, which if not repaid could result in losses to the Company.  
        As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that the
collateral securing the payment of their loans (if any) may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, our total loan portfolio was approximately $1,534,379 or 56% of our total assets. Three major components of the loan portfolio are loans principally
secured by real estate, approximately $1,342,076 or 87% of total loans; other commercial loans, approximately $135,108 or 9% of total loans; and consumer loans, approximately $57,195 or 4% of total
loans. Our credit risk with respect to our consumer installment loan portfolio and commercial loan portfolio relates
principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses within our local market area. Our credit risk with respect to our residential and commercial real estate mortgage and
construction loan portfolio relates principally to the general creditworthiness of individuals and businesses and the value of real estate serving as security for the repayment of the loans. A related
risk in connection with loans secured by commercial real estate is the effect of unknown or unexpected environmental contamination, which could make the real estate effectively unmarketable or
otherwise significantly reduce its value as security. Continued or worsening declines in the economy could cause additional credit issues, particularly within our residential and commercial real
estate mortgage and construction loan portfolio. 
 Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings.  
        We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level estimated by management to be sufficient to cover probable incurred loan losses in
our loan portfolio. Loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than we have experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, our management makes various
assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of our commercial loan portfolio, the effect of changes in the local real estate
markets on collateral values, the results of recent regulatory examinations, the effects on the loan portfolio of current 
10



 
Table of Contents
economic
indicators and their probable impact on borrowers, the amount of charge-offs for the period, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral security, and the evaluation
of our loan portfolio by an external loan review. If our assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for
different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Additionally, continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing
loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside the Company's control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Federal and state
regulators also periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments
different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.
There can be no assurance that our monitoring procedures and policies will reduce certain lending risks or that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate to cover actual losses. 
 If we foreclose on collateral property, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with ownership of real property, resulting in reduced revenues and earnings.  
        We may have to foreclose on collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which
case we will be exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control,
including, but not limited to: (i) general or local economic conditions; (ii) neighborhood values; (iii) interest rates; (iv) real estate tax rates; (v) operating
expenses of the mortgaged properties; (vi) environmental remediation liabilities; (vii) ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; (viii) zoning laws;
(ix) governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and (x) acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes,
insurance, and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the income earned from such property, and we may have
to advance funds in order to protect our investment, or we
may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. The foregoing expenditures and costs could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, resulting in reduced levels of profitability. 
 Significant interest rate volatility could reduce our profitability.  
        Our results of operations are affected principally by net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and
investments and interest expense paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates. National, regional and local economic conditions and the policies of
regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, affect market interest rates. While we have instituted policies and procedures designed to
manage the risks from changes in market interest rates, at any given time our assets and liabilities will likely be affected differently by a given change in interest rates, principally because we do
not match the maturities of our loans and investments precisely with our deposits and other funding sources. Changes in interest rates may also affect the level of voluntary prepayments on our loans
and the level of financing or refinancing by customers. As of December 31, 2011, we had a negative interest rate gap of 20% of interest earning assets in the one-year time frame.
Although this is within our internal policy limits, our earnings will be adversely affected in periods of rising interest rates because, during such periods, the interest expense paid on deposits and
borrowings will generally increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on loans and investments. If such an interest rate increase occurred gradually, we would use our established procedures
to attempt to mitigate the effects over time. However, if such an interest rate increase occurred rapidly, or interest rates exhibited volatile increases and decreases, we might be unable to mitigate
the effects, and our net interest income could suffer significant adverse effects. While management intends to continue to take measures to mitigate interest rate risk, we cannot assure you that such
measures will be entirely effective in minimizing our exposure to the risk of rapid changes in interest rates. 
 The repeal of Regulation Q may increase competition for deposits and increase our interest expense.  
        On July 18, 2011, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System published a final rule repealing Regulation Q,
which prohibits the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System. The rule implements Section 627 of the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed by President Obama on July 21, 2010, which repealed Section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act in its entirety effective
July 21, 2011. As a result, banks and thrifts may now offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which were previously forbidden under Regulation Q. The
repeal of Regulation Q may cause increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits. If the Bank decides to pay interest on demand accounts, it would expect interest
expense to increase. 
 We may be required to pay significantly higher Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) premiums in the future.  
        Insured institution failures during the past several years, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions, have
significantly increased FDIC loss provisions, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio to historical lows. The FDIC expects the higher rate of insured institution failures to continue
for the next few years compared to the past; thus, the reserve ratio 
11



 
Table of Contents
may
continue to decline. In addition the Dodd-Frank Act permanently implemented FDIC insurance coverage for all deposit accounts up to $250,000 and revised the insurance premium assessment
base from all domestic deposits to the average of total assets less tangible equity. The minimum reserve ratio of the deposit insurance fund has been increased from 1.15% to 1.35%, with the increase
to be covered by assessments on insured institutions with assets over $10 billion until the new reserve ratio is reached. 
        We
are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be
required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Additionally, the FDIC may make material changes to the calculation of the prepaid assessment from the current proposal.
Any future changes in the calculation or assessment of FDIC insurance premiums may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to continue to pay
dividends on our common shares at the current rate or at all. 
 Future growth or operating results may require the Company to raise additional capital but that capital may not be available or it may be dilutive.  
        The Company is required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support its operations.
To the extent the Company's future operating results erode capital or the Company elects to expand through loan growth or acquisition it may be required to raise capital. The Company's ability to
raise capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of its control, and on the Company's financial performance. Accordingly, the Company cannot be assured of its ability
to raise capital if needed or on favorable terms. If the Company cannot raise additional capital when needed, it will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions
on its growth and business. These could negatively impact the Company's ability to operate or further expand its operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and may
result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. 
 We rely heavily on our management and other key personnel, and the loss of any of them may adversely affect our operations.  
        We are and will continue to be dependent upon the services of our management team. The loss of any of our senior managers could have an
adverse effect on our growth and performance because of their skills, knowledge of the markets in which we operate and years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified
replacement personnel. The loss of key personnel in a particular market could have an adverse effect on our performance in that market because it may be difficult to find qualified replacement
personnel who are already located in or would be willing to relocate to a non-metropolitan market. 
        Our
ability to retain key officers and employees may be further impacted by executive compensation and governance restrictions applicable to participants in Treasury's CPP, including
restrictions on total compensation, equity compensation and severance payments. Additionally, recent proposed regulations issued by banking regulators regarding executive compensation may also impact
our ability to compensate executives and, as a result, to attract and retain qualified personnel. 
 The geographic concentration of our markets makes our business highly susceptible to local economic conditions.  
        Unlike larger banking organizations that are more geographically diversified, our operations are currently concentrated in 31 counties
in Indiana, three counties in Illinois, two counties in Ohio, and three counties in Kentucky. As a result of this geographic concentration in four fairly contiguous markets, our financial results
depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. A deterioration in economic conditions in one or all of these markets could result in one or more of the
following:


•an increase in loan delinquencies; 
•an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; 
•a decrease in the demand for our products and services; or 
•a decrease in the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers' borrowing power, the
value of assets associated with problem loans and collateral coverage. 

 If we do not adjust to rapid changes in the financial services industry, our financial performance may suffer.  
        We face substantial competition for deposit, credit and trust relationships, as well as other sources of funding in the communities we
serve. Competing providers include other banks, thrifts and trust companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking operations, credit unions, finance companies, money market funds and other financial
and nonfinancial companies which may offer products functionally equivalent to those offered by our banks. Competing providers may have greater financial resources than we do and offer services within
and outside the market areas we serve. In addition to this challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers,
mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not
been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is primarily a 
12



 
Table of Contents
result
of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. If we are unable to adjust both to
increased competition for traditional banking services and changing customer needs and preferences, it could adversely affect our financial performance and your investment in our common stock. 
 Our historical growth and financial performance trends may not continue if our acquisition strategy is not successful.  
        Growth in asset size and earnings through acquisitions has been an important part of our business strategy. As consolidation of the
banking industry continues, the competition for suitable acquisition candidates may increase. We compete with other banking companies for acquisition opportunities, and many of these competitors have
greater financial resources and acquisition experience than we do and may be able to pay more for an acquisition than we are able or willing to pay. We also may need additional debt or equity
financing in the future to fund acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing or, if available, it may not be in amounts and on terms acceptable to us. We may use our common stock as
the consideration for an acquisition or we may issue additional common stock and use the proceeds for the acquisition. Our issuance of additional securities will dilute your equity interest in us and
may have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If we are unable to locate suitable acquisition candidates willing to sell on terms acceptable to us, or we are otherwise unable to obtain
additional debt or equity financing necessary for us to continue our acquisition strategy, we would be required to find other methods to grow our business and we may not grow at the same rate we have
in the past, or at all. 
 Acquisitions entail risks which could negatively affect our operations.  
        Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including:


•exposure to asset quality problems of the acquired institution; 
•maintaining adequate regulatory capital; 
•diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; 
•risks and expenses of entering new geographic markets; 
•potential significant loss of depositors or loan customers from the acquired institution; or  
•exposure to undisclosed or unknown liabilities of an acquired institution. 

        Any
of these acquisition risks could result in unexpected losses or expenses and thereby reduce the expected benefits of the acquisition. 
 Unanticipated costs related to our acquisitions could reduce MainSource's future earnings per share.  
        MainSource believes it has reasonably estimated the likely costs of integrating the operations of the banks it acquires into MainSource
and the incremental costs of operating such banks as a part of the MainSource family. However, it is possible that unexpected transaction costs such as taxes, fees or professional expenses or
unexpected future operating expenses, such as increased personnel costs or increased taxes, as well as other types of unanticipated adverse developments, could have a material adverse effect on the
results of operations and financial condition of MainSource. If unexpected costs are incurred, acquisitions could have a dilutive effect on MainSource's earnings per share. Current accounting guidance
requires expensing of acquisition costs. In prior years, these costs could be capitalized. In other words, if MainSource incurs such unexpected costs and expenses as a result of its acquisitions,
MainSource believes that the earnings per share of MainSource common stock could be less than they would have been if those acquisitions had not been completed. 
 MainSource may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the banks it has acquired and may acquire in the future and retain employees of such banks.  
        MainSource's acquisition strategy involves the integration of the banks MainSource has acquired and may acquire in the future as
MainSource subsidiary banks. The difficulties of integrating the operations of such banks with MainSource and its other subsidiary banks include:


•coordinating geographically separated organizations; 
•integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; 
•combining different corporate cultures; or 
•retaining key employees. 

13



 
Table of Contents
        The
process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of MainSource, its subsidiary banks and the banks MainSource
has acquired and may acquire in the future and the loss of key personnel. The integration of such banks as MainSource subsidiary banks requires the experience and expertise of certain key employees of
such banks who are expected to be retained by MainSource. We cannot be sure, however, that MainSource will be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully
integrate such banks' operations as subsidiary banks of MainSource. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the mergers, along with the
integration of the banks as MainSource subsidiary banks, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operation of MainSource. 
 The Company may be subject to future goodwill impairment charges  
        During 2009, the Company recorded $80,310 in goodwill impairment charges in the second and fourth quarters. No goodwill impairment
charges were recorded in 2010 or 2011. While the Company does not currently anticipate that there will be additional impairment charges required in the future, it can make no guarantees that none will
be taken. If more impairment is recorded, it will have a negative impact on future earnings. 
 Risks Relating to the Banking Industry  
 Changes in governmental regulation and legislation could limit our future performance and growth.  
        We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations,
as well as any acquisitions we may propose to make. Any change in applicable federal or state laws or regulations could have a substantial impact on us, our subsidiary banks and our operations. While
we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could reduce the value of your
investment. 
 Changes in regulation or oversight may have a material adverse impact on our operations.  
        We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Securities and Exchange Commission and other regulatory bodies. Such regulation and supervision governs the
activities in which we may engage. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations,
investigations and limitations related to our securities, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. In light of the current conditions in the
U.S. financial markets and economy, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the
form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
 Risks Related to the Company's Stock  
 We may not be able to pay dividends in the future in accordance with past practice.  
        The Company has traditionally paid a quarterly dividend to common stockholders. The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank
and receives substantially all of its revenue and cash flow from dividends paid by the Bank to the Company. Indiana state law and agreements between the Bank and its federal and state regulators may
limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In the event that the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company for an extended period of time, the Company may not be able to
service its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock. Additionally, any payment of dividends in the future will depend, in large part, on the Bank's earnings, capital requirements,
financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Company's Board of Directors. Starting in the second quarter of 2009 and continuing to the present, the Company reduced the amount of
cash dividends paid. This reduction was made to preserve capital levels at the Company. There can be no assurance as to when or by what amount the Board will increase the dividend from its current
level. 
 The price of the Company's common stock may be volatile, which may result in losses for investors.  
        General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of the Company's common stock. In
addition, the following factors may cause the market price for shares of the Company's common stock to fluctuate:


•announcements of developments related to the Company's business; 
•fluctuations in the Company's results of operations; 
•sales or purchases of substantial amounts of the Company's securities in the marketplace; 

14



 
Table of Contents


•general conditions in the Company's banking niche or the worldwide economy; 
•a shortfall or excess in revenues or earnings compared to securities analysts' expectations;  
•changes in analysts' recommendations or projections; and 
•the Company's announcement of new acquisitions or other projects. 

 The Company's participation in Treasury's Capital Purchase Program (CPP) may adversely affect the value of its common stock and the rights of its common stockholders.  
        The rights of the holders of the Company's common stock may be adversely affected by the Company's participation in the CPP. For
example:


•The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock unless it has fully paid all required dividends on the Preferred
Shares. Although the Company fully expects to be able to pay all required dividends on the Preferred Shares, there is no guarantee that it will be able to do so.  
•The Preferred Shares will receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the
Company. 
•The ownership interest of the existing holders of the Company's common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant the
Company issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of the Preferred Shares is exercised. 

In
addition, terms of the Preferred Shares require that quarterly dividends be paid on the Preferred Shares at the rate of 5% per annum for the first five years and 9% per annum thereafter until the
stock is redeemed by the Company. The payments of these dividends will decrease the excess cash the Company otherwise has available to pay dividends on its common stock and to use for general
corporate purposes, including working capital. 
 The Company's charter documents and federal regulations may inhibit a takeover, prevent a transaction that may favor or otherwise limit the Company's growth opportunities,
which could cause the market price of the Company's common stock to decline.  
        Certain provisions of the Company's charter documents and federal regulations could have the effect of making it more difficult for a
third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of the Company. In addition, the Company must obtain approval from regulatory authorities before acquiring
control of any other company.  
 
    ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.     
        None.  
 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES     
        As of December 31, 2011, the Company leased an office building from one of its subsidiaries for use as its corporate
headquarters. The Company's subsidiaries own, or lease, all of the facilities from which they conduct business. All leases are comparable to other leases in the respective market areas and do not
contain provisions materially detrimental to the Company or its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2011 the Company had 80 banking locations. At December 31, 2011, the Company had
approximately $50,652 invested in premises and equipment.  
 
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     
        The Company and its subsidiaries may be parties (both plaintiff and defendant) to ordinary litigation incidental to the conduct of
business. Management is presently not aware of any material pending or contemplated legal proceedings.  
 
    ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES     
        Not applicable. 
15




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
PART II   
 
    ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER'S PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
 Market Information  
        The Company's Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFG. The Common Stock was held by approximately 4,500
shareholders at March 12, 2012. The quarterly high and low closing prices for the Company's common stock as reported by NASDAQ and quarterly cash dividends declared and paid are set forth in
the tables below. All per share data is retroactively restated for all stock dividends and splits. 
        The
range of known per share prices by calendar quarter, based on actual transactions, excluding commissions, is shown below. 






















 
 
Market Prices 
 


2011
 
Q1
 
Q2
 
Q3
 
Q4
 


 
 


 High
 
 $
10.60
 
 $
10.05
 
 $
9.24
 
 $
9.89
 


 Low
 
 $
8.74
 
 $
6.98
 
 $
7.46
 
 $
7.66
 


2010
 

Q1
 

Q2
 

Q3
 

Q4
 


 
 


 High
 
 $
7.40
 
 $
9.00
 
 $
7.67
 
 $
10.76
 


 Low
 
 $
4.40
 
 $
6.70
 
 $
5.43
 
 $
7.68
 


 
 
Cash Dividends 
 


2011
 

Q1
 

Q2
 

Q3
 

Q4
 


 
 


 
 
 $
0.010
 
 $
0.010
 
 $
0.010
 
 $
0.010
 


2010
 

Q1
 

Q2
 

Q3
 

Q4
 


 
 


 
 
 $
0.010
 
 $
0.010
 
 $
0.010
 
 $
0.010
 




        It is expected that the Company will continue to pay its reduced dividend for the foreseeable future, until the Company determines that its
results of operations, its capital levels and other external factors beyond management's control make it
prudent to raise the dividend, and until the Company determines that its earnings are sufficient to repurchase the preferred shares held by the U.S. Treasury pursuant to Treasury's Capital Purchase
Program. As a participant in the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program, no dividends may be paid on the common stock unless and until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods
owed to the Treasury on the preferred shares are fully paid. See Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the Company's participation in the Capital Purchase
Program. 
16



 
Table of Contents
 Stock Performance Graph  
        The following performance graph compares the performance of our common shares to the performance of the NASDAQ Market Index (U.S.) and
the NASDAQ Bank Stocks Index for the 60 months ended December 31, 2011. The graph assumes an investment of $100 in each of the Company's common shares, the NASDAQ Market Index (U.S.) and
the NASDAQ Bank Stocks Index on December 31, 2006. 































 
 
12/31/06
 
12/31/07
 
12/31/08
 
12/31/09
 
12/31/10
 
12/31/11
 


 
 


 MainSource Financial Group
 
 
 100.00
 
 
 92.28
 
 
 92.05
 
 
 28.85
 
 
 59.82
 
 
 50.78
 


 NASDAQ MARKET INDEX (U.S.)
 
 
 100.00
 
 
 109.81
 
 
 65.29
 
 
 93.94
 
 
 109.84
 
 
 107.85
 


 NASDAQ Bank Stocks Index
 
 
 100.00
 
 
 77.93
 
 
 59.29
 
 
 48.31
 
 
 54.05
 
 
 47.35
 




17




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     
 Selected Financial Data (Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)  

























 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Results of Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net interest income
 
 $
99,848
 
 $
101,252
 
 $
98,008
 
 $
87,525
 
 $
74,397
 


 Provision for loan losses
 
 
 17,800
 
 
 35,250
 
 
 46,310
 
 
 20,918
 
 
 5,745
 


 Noninterest income
 
 
 45,308
 
 
 41,291
 
 
 40,050
 
 
 29,697
 
 
 28,126
 


 Noninterest expense
 
 
 99,805
 
 
 92,252
 
 
 167,532
 
 
 72,773
 
 
 68,020
 


 Income (loss) before income tax
 
 
 27,551
 
 
 15,041
 
 
 (75,784
)
 
 23,531
 
 
 28,758
 


 Income tax (benefit)
 
 
 3,738
 
 
 239
 
 
 (11,645
)
 
 4,379
 
 
 6,888
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
 23,813
 
 
 14,802
 
 
 (64,139
)
 
 19,152
 
 
 21,870
 


 Preferred dividends and accretion
 
 
 3,054
 
 
 3,054
 
 
 2,919
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders
 
 
 20,759
 
 
 11,748
 
 
 (67,058
)
 
 19,152
 
 
 21,870
 


 Dividends paid on common stock
 
 
 807
 
 
 805
 
 
 5,135
 
 
 11,133
 
 
 10,392
 


 Per Common Share*
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings (loss) per share (basic)
 
 $
1.03
 
 $
0.58
 
 $
(3.33
)
 $
1.00
 
 $
1.17
 


 Earnings (loss) per share (diluted)
 
 
 1.03
 
 
 0.58
 
 
 (3.33
)
 
 1.00
 
 
 1.17
 


 Dividends paid
 
 
 0.04
 
 
 0.04
 
 
 0.26
 
 
 0.58
 
 
 0.56
 


 Book value — end of period
 
 
 13.87
 
 
 12.24
 
 
 11.84
 
 
 14.90
 
 
 14.22
 


 Market price — end of period
 
 
 8.83
 
 
 10.41
 
 
 4.78
 
 
 15.50
 
 
 15.56
 


 At Year End
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
2,754,180
 
 $
2,769,312
 
 $
2,906,530
 
 $
2,899,835
 
 $
2,536,437
 


 Securities
 
 
 876,090
 
 
 806,071
 
 
 714,607
 
 
 513,310
 
 
 489,739
 


 Loans, excluding held for sale
 
 
 1,534,379
 
 
 1,680,971
 
 
 1,885,447
 
 
 1,995,601
 
 
 1,693,678
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
 39,889
 
 
 42,605
 
 
 46,648
 
 
 34,583
 
 
 14,331
 


 Total deposits
 
 
 2,159,900
 
 
 2,211,564
 
 
 2,270,650
 
 
 2,009,324
 
 
 1,901,829
 


 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
 
 
 151,427
 
 
 152,065
 
 
 222,265
 
 
 433,167
 
 
 257,099
 


 Subordinated debentures
 
 
 50,267
 
 
 50,117
 
 
 49,966
 
 
 49,816
 
 
 41,239
 


 Shareholders' equity
 
 
 336,553
 
 
 302,570
 
 
 294,462
 
 
 299,949
 
 
 264,102
 


 Financial Ratios
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Return on average assets
 
 
 0.85
%
 
 0.51
%
 
 (2.19
)%
 
 0.73
%
 
 0.90
%


 Return on average common shareholders' equity
 
 
 7.44
 
 
 4.86
 
 
 (22.61
)
 
 6.90
 
 
 8.49
 


 Allowance for loan losses to total loans (year end, excluding held for sale)
 
 
 2.60
 
 
 2.53
 
 
 2.47
 
 
 1.73
 
 
 0.85
 


 Allowance for loan losses to total non-performing loans (year end)
 
 
 61.18
 
 
 46.55
 
 
 50.60
 
 
 58.31
 
 
 69.93
 


 Shareholders' equity to total assets (year end)
 
 
 12.22
 
 
 10.93
 
 
 10.13
 
 
 10.34
 
 
 10.41
 


 Average equity to average total assets
 
 
 11.46
 
 
 10.59
 
 
 11.59
 
 
 10.57
 
 
 10.57
 


 Dividend payout ratio
 
 
 3.89
 
 
 6.85
 
 
 NM
 
 
 58.13
 
 
 47.52
 







*Adjusted
for stock split and dividends
NMNot
meaningful 
18




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     
 Management's Discussion and Analysis
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)  
 Forward-Looking Statements  
        Except for historical information contained herein, the discussion in this Annual Report includes certain forward-looking statements
based upon management expectations. Actual results and experience could differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in the Company's forward-looking statements. The
Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update such forward looking statements. Factors which could cause future results to differ from these expectations include the following: general economic
conditions; legislative and regulatory initiatives; monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government; deposit flows; the cost of funds; general market rates of interest; interest rates on
competing investments; demand for loan products; demand for financial services; changes in accounting policies or guidelines; changes in the quality or composition of the Company's loan and investment
portfolios; the Company's ability to integrate acquisitions, the impact of our continuing acquisition strategy, and other factors, including the risk factors set forth in Item 1A of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K and in other reports we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company intends the forward looking statements set forth herein
to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
 Overview  
        MainSource Financial Group, Inc. ("MainSource" or the "Company") is a financial holding company whose principal activity is the
ownership and management of its wholly owned subsidiary bank: MainSource Bank headquartered in Greensburg, Indiana (the "Bank"). The Bank operates under an Indiana state charter and is subject to
regulation by the Indiana Department of Financial Institutions and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Non-banking subsidiaries include MainSource Insurance, LLC, Insurance
Services Marketing, LLC and MainSource Title, LLC. These three subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the Indiana Department of Insurance. The Company sold the property and casualty
and health insurance book of businesses related to MainSource Insurance, LLC in the fourth quarter of 2010, but retained its business relating to annuities and credit life insurance. 
 Business Strategy  
        The Company operates under the broad tenets of a long-term strategic plan ("Plan") designed to improve the Company's
financial performance, expand its competitive position and enhance long-term shareholder value. The Plan is premised on the belief of the Company's Board of Directors that it can best
promote long-term shareholder interests by pursuing strategies which will continue to preserve its community-focused philosophy. The dynamics of the Plan assure continually evolving goals,
with the enhancement of shareholder value being the constant, overriding objective. The extent of the Company's success will depend upon how well it anticipates and responds to competitive changes
within its markets, the interest rate environment and other external forces. 
 Results of Operations  
        Net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders was $20,759 in 2011, $11,748 in 2010, and $(67,058) in 2009. Earnings/(loss) per
common share on a fully diluted basis were $1.03 in 2011, $0.58 in 2010, and $(3.33) in 2009. The primary drivers that led to the increase in net income in 2011 were lower loan loss provision expense
of $17,450, higher realized gains on securities of $8,378, increased trust and investment product fees of $887, a reduction in FDIC premiums of $966, and increased interchange income of $738. Credit
losses continued to decline and new impaired loans decreased in 2011. As a result of favorable pricing, the Company recorded gains during 2011 on the sale of securities at a higher level than 2010.
The full year effect of increasing the number of financial advisors in 2010 resulted in higher trust and investment product fees. The Company realized a savings in FDIC premiums due to the change in
2011 of basing the premium on total assets instead of deposits. Continued emphasis on new account growth generated additional interchange income. Offsetting these items was an increase in consulting
expenses of $6,547, a decrease in mortgage banking income of $2,091, a reduction in insurance commissions of $1,711, an increase in OREO losses of $1,647 and a decrease in other income of $1,176
(approximately 85% of this reduction is due to the gain recognized on the sale of the property and casualty business lines of the Company's insurance division in 2010). In 2011, the Company completed
an efficiency project with the aid of a third party consulting firm. As a result of the project, approximately 150 full-time equivalent positions were targeted for elimination. While
mortgage rates remained low during 2011, mortgage financing levels declined and represented more normal activity. As mentioned above, the Company sold the property and casualty business lines in 2010
which caused the reduction in commissions. The OREO losses are the result of the Company continuing its efforts to reduce its non-performing assets. 
19



 
Table of Contents
        The
primary drivers that led to an increase in net income from 2009 to 2010 were no goodwill impairment charge in 2010 compared to an $80,310 goodwill impairment charge taken in 2009, a
reduction in the Company's loan loss provision expense of $11,060, realized gains on sales of investment securities of $1,716, brokerage income of $631, and an increase in service charge income of
$925. Offsetting these items was a decrease in mortgage banking income of $1,386 and an increase in employee costs of $3,796. Normal merit increases, the full year effect of the de novo office in
Columbus, Indiana, and the full year effect of the branch acquisitions in May 2009 were the reasons for the employee costs increase. The low mortgage interest rate environment during 2009 led to
increased refinancing activity in 2009 that subsided during 2010. Key measures of the operating performance of the Company are return on average assets, return on average common shareholders' equity,
and efficiency ratio. The Company's return on average assets was 0.85% for 2011 compared to 0.51% for 2010 and (2.19)% in 2009. The Company's return on average common shareholders' equity was 7.44% in
2011 compared to 4.86% in 2010 and (22.6)% in 2009. The Company's efficiency ratio, which measures the non-interest expenses of the Company as a percentage of its net interest income (on a
fully taxable equivalent basis) and its non-interest income, was 65.5% in 2011 compared to 62.5% in 2010 and 61.6% in 2009 (excluding the goodwill impairment charge of $80,310). 
20



 
Table of Contents
 Net Interest Income  
        Net interest income and net interest margin are influenced by the volume and yield or cost of earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities. Tax equivalent net interest income of $107,033 in 2011 slightly decreased from $107,541 in 2010. Net interest margin, on a fully-taxable equivalent basis, was 4.23% for 2011 compared to
4.11% for the same period a year ago. The Company was able to match reductions in its yield on earning assets with a corresponding larger reduction in its cost of funds. Over the three year period
interest income has continued to decline as decreases in earning assets and yields have had a negative impact on interest income. A significant portion of the Company's CDs matured in 2011 and the
Company was able to reprice those deposits to current, lower market rates. The Company was also able to continue to lower the interest paid on deposit accounts. The Federal Reserve Bank continues to
target the fed funds rate at 0%-.25%. 
        The
following table summarizes net interest income (on a tax-equivalent basis) for each of the past three years. 
 Average Balance Sheet and Net Interest Analysis (Taxable Equivalent Basis)*  





































 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 
 
 


Assets
 
Average
Balance
 
Interest
 
Average
Rate
 
Average
Balance
 
Interest
 
Average
Rate
 
Average
Balance
 
Interest
 
Average
Rate
 


 
 
 
 


 Short-term investments
 
 $
69,960
 
 
 167
 
 
 0.24
%
 $
33,037
 
 $
12
 
 
 0.04
%
 $
1,933
 
 $
11
 
 
 0.57
%


 Federal funds sold and money market accounts
 
 
 16,644
 
 
 48
 
 
 0.29
 
 
 44,025
 
 
 190
 
 
 0.43
 
 
 54,496
 
 
 128
 
 
 0.23
 


 Securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Taxable
 
 
 523,760
 
 
 16,040
 
 
 3.06
 
 
 512,749
 
 
 18,828
 
 
 3.67
 
 
 432,091
 
 
 19,565
 
 
 4.53
 


 Non-taxable*
 
 
 304,366
 
 
 19,100
 
 
 6.28
 
 
 246,312
 
 
 15,940
 
 
 6.47
 
 
 181,591
 
 
 11,789
 
 
 6.49
 


 
 
 
 


 Total securities
 
 
 828,126
 
 
 35,140
 
 
 4.24
 
 
 759,061
 
 
 34,768
 
 
 4.58
 
 
 613,682
 
 
 31,354
 
 
 5.11
 


 Loans**
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial*
 
 
 959,550
 
 
 55,905
 
 
 5.83
 
 
 1,061,537
 
 
 62,433
 
 
 5.88
 
 
 1,203,955
 
 
 67,585
 
 
 5.61
 


 Residential real estate
 
 
 380,255
 
 
 21,970
 
 
 5.78
 
 
 400,994
 
 
 24,536
 
 
 6.12
 
 
 465,462
 
 
 29,753
 
 
 6.39
 


 Consumer
 
 
 276,660
 
 
 15,566
 
 
 5.63
 
 
 317,654
 
 
 18,921
 
 
 5.96
 
 
 312,149
 
 
 19,575
 
 
 6.27
 


 
 
 
 


 Total loans
 
 
 1,616,465
 
 
 93,441
 
 
 5.78
 
 
 1,780,185
 
 
 105,890
 
 
 5.95
 
 
 1,981,566
 
 
 116,913
 
 
 5.90
 


 
 
 
 


 Total earning assets
 
 
 2,531,195
 
 
 128,796
 
 
 5.09
 
 
 2,616,308
 
 
 140,860
 
 
 5.38
 
 
 2,651,677
 
 
 148,406
 
 
 5.60
 


 
 
 
 


 Cash and due from banks
 
 
 40,444
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 41,427
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 44,266
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Unrealized gains (losses) on securities
 
 
 26,222
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 28,074
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,036
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
 (42,583
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (43,711
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (46,308
)
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Premises and equipment, net
 
 
 49,920
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 49,696
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 51,086
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Intangible assets
 
 
 70,006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 72,765
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 129,180
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accrued interest receivable and other assets
 
 
 115,695
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 113,814
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 86,966
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
2,790,899
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
2,878,373
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
2,930,903
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest-bearing deposits DDA, savings, and money market accounts
 
 $
1,294,274
 
 
 4,275
 
 
 0.33
 
 $
1,201,145
 
 $
6,184
 
 
 0.51
 
 $
1,029,035
 
 $
7,177
 
 
 0.70
 


 Certificates of deposit
 
 
 631,270
 
 
 9,836
 
 
 1.56
 
 
 798,471
 
 
 16,978
 
 
 2.13
 
 
 928,689
 
 
 25,320
 
 
 2.73
 


 
 
 
 


 Total interest-bearing deposits
 
 
 1,925,544
 
 
 14,111
 
 
 0.73
 
 
 1,999,616
 
 
 23,162
 
 
 1.16
 
 
 1,957,724
 
 
 32,497
 
 
 1.66
 


 Short-term borrowings
 
 
 30,946
 
 
 161
 
 
 0.52
 
 
 40,320
 
 
 258
 
 
 0.64
 
 
 50,885
 
 
 442
 
 
 0.87
 


 Subordinated debentures
 
 
 49,000
 
 
 1,737
 
 
 3.54
 
 
 49,000
 
 
 1,755
 
 
 3.58
 
 
 49,000
 
 
 2,059
 
 
 4.20
 


 Notes payable and FHLB borrowings
 
 
 150,814
 
 
 5,754
 
 
 3.82
 
 
 197,769
 
 
 8,144
 
 
 4.12
 
 
 269,443
 
 
 10,235
 
 
 3.80
 


 
 
 
 


 Total interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
 2,156,304
 
 
 21,763
 
 
 1.01
 
 
 2,286,705
 
 
 33,319
 
 
 1.46
 
 
 2,327,052
 
 
 45,233
 
 
 1.94
 


 Demand deposits
 
 
 288,908
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 259,607
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 238,411
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 25,734
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 27,209
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 25,886
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 2,470,946
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,573,521
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2,591,349
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Shareholders' equity
 
 
 319,953
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 304,852
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 339,554
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
 
 $
2,790,899
 
 
 21,763
 
 
 0.86
***
 $
2,878,373
 
 
 33,319
 
 
 1.27
***
 $
2,930,903
 
 
 45,233
 
 
 1.71
***


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
 
 
 $
107,033
 
 
 4.23
****
 
 
 
 $
107,541
 
 
 4.11
****
 
 
 
 $
103,173
 
 
 3.89
****


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Conversion of tax exempt income to a fully taxable equivalent basis using a marginal rate of 35%
 
 
 
 
 $
7,185
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
6,289
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
5,165
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 







*Adjusted
to reflect income related to securities and loans exempt from Federal income taxes.
**Nonaccruing
loans have been included in the average balances.
***Total
interest expense divided by total earning assets.
****Net
interest income divided by total earning assets. 
21



 
Table of Contents
        The following table sets forth for the periods indicated a summary of the changes in interest income and interest expense resulting from changes
in volume and changes in rates. 
 Volume/Rate Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income (Tax Equivalent Basis)  




























 
 
2011 OVER 2010 
 
2010 OVER 2009 
 


 
 
Volume
 
Rate
 
Total
 
Volume
 
Rate
 
Total
 


 
 


 Interest income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans
 
 $
(9,528
)
 $
(2,921
)
 $
(12,449
)
 $
(12,014
)
 $
991
 
 $
(11,023
)


 Securities
 
 
 3,035
 
 
 (2,663
)
 
 372
 
 
 6,667
 
 
 (3,253
)
 
 3,414
 


 Federal funds sold and money market funds
 
 
 (93
)
 
 (49
)
 
 (142
)
 
 (47
)
 
 109
 
 
 62
 


 Short-term investments
 
 
 26
 
 
 129
 
 
 155
 
 
 11
 
 
 (10
)
 
 1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total interest income
 
 
 (6,560
)
 
 (5,504
)
 
 (12,064
)
 
 (5,383
)
 
 (2,163
)
 
 (7,546
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest-bearing DDA, savings, and money market accounts
 
 $
449
 
 $
(2,358
)
 
 (1,909
)
 $
962
 
 $
(1,955
)
 $
(993
)


 Certificates of deposit
 
 
 (3,138
)
 
 (4,004
)
 
 (7,142
)
 
 (2,770
)
 
 (5,572
)
 
 (8,342
)


 Borrowings
 
 
 (1,871
)
 
 (616
)
 
 (2,487
)
 
 (2,916
)
 
 641
 
 
 (2,275
)


 Subordinated debentures
 
 
 —
 
 
 (18
)
 
 (18
)
 
 —
 
 
 (304
)
 
 (304
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total interest expense
 
 
 (4,560
)
 
 (6,996
)
 
 (11,556
)
 
 (4,724
)
 
 (7,190
)
 
 (11,914
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in net interest income
 
 
 (2,000
)
 
 1,492
 
 
 (508
)
 $
(659
)
 $
5,027
 
 
 4,368
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in tax equivalent adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 896
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,124
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in net interest income before tax
equivalent adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
(1,404
)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
3,244
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Variances
not attributed to rate or volume are allocated between rate and volume in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amount of the change in each. 
 Provision for Loan Losses  
        The Company expensed $17,800 in provision for loan losses in 2011. This level of provision allowed the Company to maintain an adequate
allowance for loan losses. This topic is discussed in detail under the heading "Loans, Credit Risk and the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses". 
22



 
Table of Contents
 Non-interest Income and Expense  

























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percent Change 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
11/10
 
10/09
 


 
 


 Non-interest income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Insurance commissions
 
 $
—
 
 $
1,711
 
 $
2,071
 
 
 -100.0%
 
 
 -17.4%
 


 Mortgage banking
 
 
 5,551
 
 
 7,642
 
 
 9,028
 
 
 -27.4%
 
 
 -15.4%
 


 Trust and investment product fees
 
 
 3,250
 
 
 2,363
 
 
 1,743
 
 
 37.5%
 
 
 35.6%
 


 Service charges on deposit accounts
 
 
 18,147
 
 
 17,462
 
 
 16,537
 
 
 3.9%
 
 
 5.6%
 


 Net realized gains on securities sales
 
 
 11,357
 
 
 2,979
 
 
 1,263
 
 
 281.2%
 
 
 135.9%
 


 Increase in cash surrender value of life insurance
 
 
 1,200
 
 
 1,246
 
 
 890
 
 
 -3.7%
 
 
 40.0%
 


 Interchange income
 
 
 6,225
 
 
 5,487
 
 
 5,178
 
 
 13.4%
 
 
 6.0%
 


 Gain/(loss) on sale of OREO
 
 
 (2,744
)
 
 (1,097
)
 
 200
 
 
 -150.1%
 
 
 -548.5%
 


 Other
 
 
 2,322
 
 
 3,498
 
 
 3,140
 
 
 -33.6%
 
 
 11.4%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total non-interest income
 
 $
45,308
 
 $
41,291
 
 $
40,050
 
 
 9.7%
 
 
 3.1%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-interest expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Salaries and employee benefits
 
 $
49,950
 
 $
50,138
 
 $
46,342
 
 
 -0.4%
 
 
 8.2%
 


 Net occupancy
 
 
 6,686
 
 
 6,654
 
 
 6,660
 
 
 0.5%
 
 
 -0.1%
 


 Equipment
 
 
 7,822
 
 
 7,855
 
 
 7,468
 
 
 -0.4%
 
 
 5.2%
 


 Intangibles amortization
 
 
 1,939
 
 
 2,066
 
 
 2,199
 
 
 -6.1%
 
 
 -6.0%
 


 Telecommunications
 
 
 1,991
 
 
 1,882
 
 
 2,015
 
 
 5.8%
 
 
 -6.6%
 


 Stationery, printing, and supplies
 
 
 1,510
 
 
 1,478
 
 
 1,608
 
 
 2.2%
 
 
 -8.1%
 


 FDIC assessment
 
 
 3,974
 
 
 4,940
 
 
 4,976
 
 
 -19.6%
 
 
 -0.7%
 


 Marketing
 
 
 4,057
 
 
 3,412
 
 
 3,040
 
 
 18.9%
 
 
 12.2%
 


 Collection expenses
 
 
 4,334
 
 
 3,579
 
 
 3,255
 
 
 21.1%
 
 
 10.0%
 


 Consultant expense
 
 
 6,547
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 NA
 
 
 0.0%
 


 Goodwill impairment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 80,310
 
 
 0.0%
 
 
 -100%
 


 Other
 
 
 10,995
 
 
 10,248
 
 
 9,659
 
 
 7.3%
 
 
 6.1%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total non-interest expense
 
 $
99,805
 
 $
92,252
 
 $
167,532
 
 
 8.2%
 
 
 -44.9%
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Non-interest Income  
        Non-interest income was $45,308 for 2011 compared to $41,291 for the same period in 2010, an increase of $4,017 or 9.7%.
Increases in trust and investment product fees, service charges on deposit accounts, net realized gains on securities sales, and interchange income were the primary causes of the increase. These
increases were offset by a reduction in insurance commissions, mortgage banking, losses on OREO property, and other income. The Company realized the full year effect of increasing the number of
financial advisors in 2010. A continued emphasis on new account growth yielded additional service charge and interchange income. As a result of favorable pricing, the Company recorded gains during
2011 on the sale of securities at a higher level than 2010. The level of mortgage banking activity leveled off in 2011 from what the Company had experienced in 2010. The reduction of insurance
commissions was caused by the sale of the property and casualty book of business during the fourth quarter of 2010. Also in connection with the sale of the property and casualty book of business, the
Company recorded a $988 gain in 2010 on the sale. The Company continues to move the Other Real Estate (OREO) property as quickly as possible and incurred additional losses in 2011 as well as
write-downs on some of the properties due to the significant changes in the properties' value. The Company obtained up to date appraisals on several properties which resulted in additional charge
downs. Non-interest income as a percent of non-interest expense was 45.4% for 2011 compared to 44.8% for 2010. 
        Non-interest
income was $41,291 for 2010 compared to $40,050 for the same period in 2009, an increase of $1,241 or 3.1%. Increases in trust and investment product fees,
service charges on deposit accounts, net realized gains on securities sales, increase in cash surrender value of life insurance and interchange income were the primary causes of the increase. These
increases were offset by a reduction in insurance commissions, mortgage banking, and other income. The Company had an increase in the number of financial advisors in 2010 which equated to increased
revenue. A continued emphasis on new account growth yielded additional service charge and interchange income. As a result of favorable pricing,
the Company recorded gains during 2010 on the sale of securities at a higher level than 2009. The level of mortgage banking activity leveled off in 2010 from what the Company had experienced in 2009
when mortgage rates were at a record low. While the volume of mortgage loans sold decreased from $425 million in 2009 to $278 million in 2010, the average gain on the sale of these loans
increased to 1.88% in 2010 from 1.32% in 2009. The reduction of insurance commissions was caused by the sale of the property and casualty book of business during the fourth quarter of 2010. Other Real
Estate (OREO) losses were the primary cause of the reduction in other income. ORE losses were $1,097 
23



 
Table of Contents
in
2010 compared to a net gain of $200 in 2009. The Company's intent is to move these properties as quickly as possible. Non-interest income as a percent of non-interest
expense was 44.8% for 2010 compared to 23.9% for 2009. The increase was caused primarily by the goodwill impairment charge taken in 2009. 
 Non-interest Expense  
        Total non-interest expense was $99,805 in 2011 compared to $92,252 in 2010, an increase of $7,553 or 8.2%. The increase was
primarily attributable to consultant expenses of $6,547 incurred in 2011. During 2011 the Company completed an efficiency project with the aid of a third party consulting firm. Almost all of the
Company's departments and corresponding headcount were reviewed, as well as the entire organizational structure of the Company. As a result of the project, approximately 150 full-time
equivalent positions were targeted for elimination. The third party consulting firm also recommended various revenue enhancements which may require future payouts if certain targets are achieved.
Marketing expense and collection expense increases of $645 and $755 were partially offset by a reduction in the Company's FDIC assessment of $966. The marketing expense increase was due to costs
involved in generating new deposit accounts. Collection costs continue to be elevated as the Company is working through its problem credits. As a result of the FDIC changing the assessment base to
total assets instead of deposits, the Company's FDIC assessment was lower in 2011. 
        Total
non-interest expense was $92,252 in 2010 compared to $167,532 in 2009, a decrease of $75,280 and 44.9%. The decrease was primarily attributable to goodwill impairment
charges of $80,310 taken in 2009. Offsetting the goodwill impairment charges in 2009 were increases in salaries and employee benefits, equipment, marketing, collection, and other expenses. The largest
increase was in the salaries and employee benefits area due to normal merit increases, higher mortgage loan commission expense, the de novo office in Columbus, Indiana, and the full year effect of
branch acquisitions in May 2009. 
 Income Taxes  
        The effective tax rate was 13.6% in 2011, 1.6% in 2010, and 15.4% in 2009. The increase in the Company's effective tax rate from 2010
to 2011 was primarily due to an increase in taxable income. The decrease in the Company's effective tax rate from 2009 to 2010 was primarily due to an increase in tax exempt income in 2010 and no
goodwill impairment charges in 2010. The Company and its subsidiaries file consolidated income tax returns. 
 Balance Sheet  
        At December 31, 2011, total assets were $2,754,180 compared to $2,769,312 at December 31, 2010, a decrease of
$15 million. Increases in cash ($49) and investment securities ($70) were more than offset by decreases in loans ($144). 
 Loans, Credit Risk and the Allowance and Provision for Loan Losses  
        Loans remain the Company's largest concentration of assets and continue to represent the greatest potential risk. The loan underwriting
standards observed by the Bank are viewed by management as a means of controlling problem loans and the resulting charge-offs. The Company also believes credit risks may be elevated if
undue concentrations of loans in specific industry segments and to out-of-area borrowers are incurred. Accordingly, the Company's Board of Directors regularly monitors such
concentrations to determine compliance with its loan concentration policy. The Company believes it has no undue concentrations of loans. 
        Total
loans (excluding those held for sale) decreased by $146,592 from year-end 2010. Approximately 20% of this decrease was in the Company's residential real estate
portfolio as on balance sheet fixed-rate residential real estate loans refinanced during the year, and the Company elected to sell these loans to the secondary market (while retaining the
servicing for these loans). The remaining decrease in loan balances was primarily due to the following factors: a decrease in construction and development loans as the continued sluggish economy
resulted in the Company ceasing the origination of these loans, charge-offs taken during 2011, and the overall decrease in loan demand across all segments. Residential real estate loans
continue to represent the largest portion of the total loan portfolio and were 48% of total loans at December 31, 2011 compared to 45% of total loans at the end of 2010. 
        The
following table details the Company's loan portfolio by type of loan based on FDIC call report codes. 
24



 
Table of Contents
 Loan Portfolio  

























 
 
December 31 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Types of loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
107,538
 
 $
163,651
 
 $
195,509
 
 $
226,696
 
 $
214,393
 


 Agricultural production financing
 
 
 32,325
 
 
 36,596
 
 
 41,889
 
 
 40,334
 
 
 29,812
 


 Farm real estate
 
 
 58,424
 
 
 37,634
 
 
 45,332
 
 
 45,918
 
 
 42,185
 


 Commercial real estate mortgage
 
 
 509,887
 
 
 525,578
 
 
 551,670
 
 
 515,964
 
 
 376,759
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 37,078
 
 
 84,152
 
 
 142,472
 
 
 173,551
 
 
 123,611
 


 Residential real estate mortgage
 
 
 730,374
 
 
 759,409
 
 
 813,602
 
 
 877,145
 
 
 780,102
 


 Consumer
 
 
 58,753
 
 
 73,951
 
 
 94,973
 
 
 115,993
 
 
 126,816
 


 
 
 
 


 Total loans
 
 $
1,534,379
 
 $
1,680,971
 
 $
1,885,447
 
 $
1,995,601
 
 $
1,693,678
 


 
 
 
 




        The
following table indicates the amounts of loans (excluding residential and commercial mortgages and consumer loans) outstanding as of December 31, 2011 which, based on
remaining scheduled repayments of principal, are due in the periods indicated. 
 Maturities and Sensitivity to Changes in Interest Rates of Commercial and Construction Loans  























 
 
Due:
 
Within 1 Year
 
1-5 Years
 
Over 5 years
 
Total


 


Loan Type
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 
 
 $
43,406
 
 $
31,781
 
 $
32,351
 
 $
107,538


 Agricultural production financing
 
 
 
 
 23,828
 
 
 6,453
 
 
 2,044
 
 
 32,325


 Construction and development
 
 
 
 
 24,214
 
 
 8,642
 
 
 4,222
 
 
 37,078


 
 
 
 
 


 Totals
 
 
 
 $
91,448
 
 $
46,876
 
 $
38,617
 
 $
176,941


 
 
 
 
 


 Percent
 
 
 
 
 52%
 
 
 26%
 
 
 22%
 
 
 100%


 
 
 
 
 


 Rate Sensitivity
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 


 Fixed Rate
 
 
 
 $
9,855
 
 $
29,767
 
 $
10,844
 
 $
50,466


 Variable Rate
 
 
 
 
 106,365
 
 
 15,771
 
 
 4,339
 
 
 126,475


 
 
 
 
 


 Totals
 
 
 
 $
116,220
 
 $
45,538
 
 $
15,183
 
 $
176,941


 
 
 
 
 




        Loans
are placed on "non-accrual" status when, in management's judgment, the collateral value and/or the borrower's financial condition does not justify accruing interest. As
a general rule, commercial, commercial real estate, residential, and consumer loans are reclassified to non-accrual status at or before becoming 90 days past due. Interest
previously recorded is reversed and charged against current income. Subsequent interest payments collected on non-accrual loans are thereafter applied as a reduction of the loan's
principal balance. Non-performing loans were $65,196 as of December 31, 2011 compared to $91,476 as of December 31, 2010 and represented 4.25% of total loans at
December 31, 2011 versus 5.44% one year ago. 
        The
following table details the Company's non-performing loans as of December 31 for the years indicated. 
 Non-performing Loans  

























 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Non-accruing loans
 
 $
41,528
 
 $
68,236
 
 $
77,074
 
 $
55,671
 
 $
18,800
 


 Troubled debt restructurings
 
 
 20,402
 
 
 22,250
 
 
 11,843
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or more
 
 
 3,266
 
 
 990
 
 
 3,279
 
 
 3,639
 
 
 1,693
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
65,196
 
 $
91,476
 
 $
92,196
 
 $
59,310
 
 $
20,493
 


 
 
 
 


 % of total loans
 
 
 4.25%
 
 
 5.44%
 
 
 4.89%
 
 
 2.97%
 
 
 1.21%
 




25



 
Table of Contents
        A
reconciliation of non-performing assets ("NPA") for 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 
















 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Beginning Balance — NPA — January 1
 
$
102,955
 
$
102,582
 


 Non-accrual
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Add: New non-accruals
 
 
47,516
 
 
73,685
 


 Less: To accrual/payoff/restructured
 
 
(31,688
)
 
(33,119
)


 Less: To OREO
 
 
(23,093
)
 
(11,115
)


 Less: Charge offs
 
 
(19,443
)
 
(38,289
)


 
 
 
 


 Increase/(Decrease): Non-accrual loans
 
 
(26,708
)
 
(8,838
)


 Other Real Estate Owned (OREO)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Add: New OREO properties
 
 
23,093
 
 
11,115
 


 Less: OREO sold
 
 
(16,125
)
 
(9,246
)


 Less: OREO losses (write-downs)
 
 
(2,965
)
 
(779
)


 
 
 
 


 Increase/(Decrease): OREO
 
 
4,003
 
 
1,090
 


 Increase/(Decrease): Repossessions
 
 
53
 
 
3
 


 Increase/(Decrease): 90 Days Delinquent
 
 
2,276
 
 
(2,289
)


 Increase/(Decrease): TDR's
 
 
(1,848
)
 
10,407
 


 
 
 
 


 Total NPA change
 
 
(22,224
)
 
373
 


 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance — NPA — December 31
 
$
80,731
 
$
102,955
 


 
 
 
 




        At December 31, 2011,only one of the non-accrual loan balances was greater than $1,000 compared to ten loan balances greater
than $1,000 at December 31, 2010. These loans are primarily land development and real estate backed loans. The Company is working with these borrowers in an attempt to minimize its losses. In
the course of resolving problem loans, the Company may choose to restructure the contractual terms of certain loans. The Company attempts to work out an alternative payment schedule with the borrower
in order to avoid foreclosure actions. Any loans that are modified are reviewed by the Company to identify if a troubled debt restructuring has occurred, which is when for economic or legal reasons
related to a borrower's financial difficulties, the Company grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. Terms may be modified to fit the ability of the borrower to repay
in line with its current financial status and could include reduction of the stated interest rate, other than normal market rate adjustments, extension of maturity dates, or reduction of principal
balance or accrued interest. The decision to restructure a loan, versus aggressively enforcing the collection of the loan, may benefit us by increasing the ultimate probability of collection. The
Company reviews each relationship before it grants the concession to insure the creditor can comply with the new terms. To date, most of the concessions have been extensions of maturity dates. The
provision for loan losses was $17,800 in 2011, $35,250 in 2010, and $46,310 in 2009. The Company's provision for loan losses in 2011 was lower than 2010 due to the stabilization of problem credits.
New non-accrual loans declined over 35% in 2011. Net charge-offs were $20,516 in 2011 compared to $39,293 in 2010 and $34,245 in 2009. As a percentage of average loans, net
charge-offs equaled 1.27%, 2.21%, and 1.73% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in charge-offs in 2010 was primarily related to the normal progression of problem
credits that were previously identified through a work out plan established. 
        Potential
problem loans are identified on the Company's watch list and consist of loans that require close monitoring by management and are not necessarily considered classified credits
by regulators. Credits may be considered as a potential problem loan for reasons that are temporary or correctable, such as for a deficiency in loan documentation or absence of current financial
statements of the borrower. Potential problem loans may also include credits where adverse circumstances are identified that may affect the borrower's ability to comply with the contractual terms of
the loan. Other factors which might indicate the existence of a potential problem loan include the delinquency of a scheduled loan payment, deterioration in a borrower's financial condition identified
in a review of periodic financial statements, a decrease in the value of the collateral securing the loan, or a change in the economic environment in which the borrower operates. Substandard
commercial loans that were not classified as non-accrual were $63,379 at December 31, 2011 and $64,455 at December 31, 2010, a slight decrease of $1,076. The Company believes
its substandard loans peaked in 2009 when the substandard balance was approximately $70,000. These loans which are $250 or greater are reviewed at least quarterly by senior management. This review
includes monitoring how the borrower is performing vs their workout plan, obtaining and reviewing the borrower's financial information, and monitoring collateral values. Management believes these
loans were well secured and had adequate allowance allocations at December 31, 2011. 
26




 











Table of Contents 
 Summary of the Allowance for Loan Losses  

























 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 
2008
 
2007
 


 
 


 Balance at January 1
 
 $
42,605
 
 $
46,648
 
 $
34,583
 
 $
14,331
 
 $
12,792
 


 Chargeoffs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 2,211
 
 
 8,190
 
 
 8,686
 
 
 1,866
 
 
 1,642
 


 Commercial real estate mortgage
 
 
 16,954
 
 
 29,177
 
 
 21,140
 
 
 948
 
 
 136
 


 Residential real estate mortgage
 
 
 3,093
 
 
 2,220
 
 
 1,899
 
 
 1,421
 
 
 446
 


 Consumer
 
 
 2,636
 
 
 2,859
 
 
 4,477
 
 
 3,032
 
 
 3,134
 


 
 
 
 


 Total Chargeoffs
 
 
 24,894
 
 
 42,446
 
 
 36,202
 
 
 7,267
 
 
 5,358
 


 
 
 
 


 Recoveries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 1,172
 
 
 518
 
 
 350
 
 
 214
 
 
 258
 


 Commercial real estate mortgage
 
 
 1,371
 
 
 873
 
 
 226
 
 
 17
 
 
 —
 


 Residential real estate mortgage
 
 
 648
 
 
 524
 
 
 37
 
 
 16
 
 
 26
 


 Consumer
 
 
 1,187
 
 
 1,238
 
 
 1,344
 
 
 790
 
 
 868
 


 
 
 
 


 Total Recoveries
 
 
 4,378
 
 
 3,153
 
 
 1,957
 
 
 1,037
 
 
 1,152
 


 
 
 
 


 Net Chargeoffs
 
 
 20,516
 
 
 39,293
 
 
 34,245
 
 
 6,230
 
 
 4,206
 


 Addition resulting from acquisition
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 5,564
 
 
 —
 


 Provision for loan losses
 
 
 17,800
 
 
 35,250
 
 
 46,310
 
 
 20,918
 
 
 5,745
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31
 
 $
39,889
 
 $
42,605
 
 $
46,648
 
 $
34,583
 
 $
14,331
 


 
 
 
 


 Net Chargeoffs to average loans
 
 
 1.27%
 
 
 2.21%
 
 
 1.73%
 
 
 0.35%
 
 
 0.26%
 


 Provision for loan losses to average loans
 
 
 1.10%
 
 
 1.98%
 
 
 2.35%
 
 
 1.17%
 
 
 0.36%
 


 Allowance to total loans at year end
 
 
 2.60%
 
 
 2.53%
 
 
 2.47%
 
 
 1.73%
 
 
 0.85%
 


 
 
 
 




        Although
the allowance for loan loss is available for any loan that, in management's judgment, should be charged off, the following table details the allowance for loan losses by loan
category and the percent of loans in each category compared to total loans at December 31. 
 Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses  








































 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


December 31
 
Amount
 
Percent
of loans
to total
loans
 
Amount
 
Percent
of loans
to total
loans
 
Amount
 
Percent
of loans
to total
loans
 
Amount
 
Percent
of loans
to total
loans
 
Amount
 
Percent
of loans
to total
loans
 


 
 


 Real estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential
 
 
 2,972
 
 
 38
%
 $
2,281
 
 
 45
%
 $
9,449
 
 
 43
%
 $
3,882
 
 
 44
%
 $
2,652
 
 
 46
%


 Farm real estate
 
 
 456
 
 
 3
 
 
 740
 
 
 2
 
 
 647
 
 
 2
 
 
 344
 
 
 2
 
 
 251
 
 
 3
 


 Commercial
 
 
 24,187
 
 
 45
 
 
 20,034
 
 
 31
 
 
 14,754
 
 
 29
 
 
 11,448
 
 
 26
 
 
 4,386
 
 
 22
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 5,833
 
 
 2
 
 
 11,879
 
 
 5
 
 
 10,205
 
 
 8
 
 
 6,500
 
 
 9
 
 
 1,085
 
 
 7
 


 
 
 
 


 Total real estate
 
 
 33,448
 
 
 88
 
 
 34,934
 
 
 83
 
 
 35,055
 
 
 82
 
 
 22,174
 
 
 81
 
 
 8,374
 
 
 78
 


 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Agribusiness
 
 
 151
 
 
 1
 
 
 370
 
 
 2
 
 
 1,126
 
 
 2
 
 
 303
 
 
 2
 
 
 167
 
 
 2
 


 Other commercial
 
 
 5,411
 
 
 7
 
 
 6,016
 
 
 10
 
 
 7,880
 
 
 11
 
 
 7,632
 
 
 11
 
 
 2,593
 
 
 13
 


 
 
 
 


 Total Commercial
 
 
 5,562
 
 
 8
 
 
 6,386
 
 
 12
 
 
 9,006
 
 
 13
 
 
 7,935
 
 
 13
 
 
 2,760
 
 
 15
 


 
 
 
 


 Consumer
 
 
 879
 
 
 4
 
 
 1,285
 
 
 5
 
 
 2,587
 
 
 5
 
 
 4,072
 
 
 6
 
 
 3,114
 
 
 7
 


 Unallocated
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 
 
 
 —
 
 
 
 
 
 402
 
 
 
 
 
 83
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
39,889
 
 
 100
%
 $
42,605
 
 
 100
%
 $
46,648
 
 
 100
%
 $
34,583
 
 
 100
%
 $
14,331
 
 
 100
%


 
 
 
 




        Management
maintains a list of loans warranting either the assignment of a specific reserve amount or other special administrative attention. This watch list, together with a listing of
all classified loans, non-accrual loans and delinquent loans, is reviewed monthly by management and the Board of Directors. Additionally, the Company evaluates its consumer and residential
real estate loan pools for probable losses incurred based on historical trends, adjusted by current delinquency and non-performing loan levels. 
27



 
Table of Contents
        The
Company has both internal and external loan review personnel who annually review approximately 50% of all loans. External loan review personnel examine the top 100 commercial credit
relationships. This equates to approximately all relationships above $1,750. 
        The
ability to absorb loan losses promptly when problems are identified is invaluable to a banking organization. Most often, losses incurred as a result of prompt, aggressive collection
actions are much lower than losses incurred after prolonged legal proceedings. Accordingly, the Company observes the practice of quickly initiating stringent collection efforts in the early stages of
loan delinquency. During the latter part of 2008, the Company established a separate group to address its deteriorating credit quality. This group consists of seven full-time equivalent
employees and reports directly to the Chief Credit Officer of the Company. At the present time, this group is charged with the task of efficiently resolving non-performing credits and
disposing of foreclosed properties. 
        The
adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is reviewed at least quarterly. The determination of the provision amount in any period is based upon management's continuing review and
evaluation of loan loss experience, changes in the composition of the loan portfolio, classified loans including non-accrual and impaired loans, current economic conditions, the amount of
loans presently outstanding, and the amount and composition of loan growth. The Company's allowance for loan losses was $39,889, or 2.60% of total loans, at December 31, 2011 compared to
$42,605, or 2.53% of total loans, at the end of 2010. This $2,716 decrease in the allowance was due in large part to write-offs in 2011 that had an allowance allocated in 2010 and
declining loan balances. Although the economy continued to improve in 2011, the housing industry remained pressured due to foreclosures and low sales. Builders and developers continue to struggle with
difficult financial conditions. Other borrowers also face similar constraints to cash flow their businesses. 
 Securities, at Fair Value  



















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Available for Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 U.S. Government-sponsored entities
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
14,387
 


 State and municipal
 
 
344,877
 
 
300,144
 
 
233,485
 


 Mortgage-backed
 
 
522,271
 
 
498,828
 
 
459,049
 


 Equity and other
 
 
8,942
 
 
7,099
 
 
7,686
 


 
 
 
 


 Total securities
 
$
876,090
 
$
806,071
 
$
714,607
 


 
 
 
 




        Securities
offer flexibility in the Company's management of interest rate risk, and are the primary means by which the Company provides liquidity and responds to changing maturity
characteristics of assets and liabilities. The Company's investment policy prohibits trading activities and does not allow investment in high-risk derivative products or junk bonds. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, all of the securities are classified as available for sale ("AFS") and are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, excluded
from earnings and reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity. A net unrealized gain of $35,218 was recorded to adjust the AFS portfolio to current market value at December 31,
2011 compared to a net unrealized gain of $14,550 at December 31, 2010. 
 Securities (Carrying Values at December 31)  

























 
 
Within
1 Year
 
2-5 Yrs
 
6-10 Yrs
 
Beyond
10 Years
 
Total 2011
 


 
 


 Available for sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 State and municipal
 
 $
3,415
 
 $
51,501
 
 $
97,337
 
 $
192,624
 
 $
344,877
 


 Mortgage-backed securities
 
 
 63
 
 
 239
 
 
 80,608
 
 
 441,361
 
 
 522,271
 


 Other securities
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,587
 
 
 —
 
 
 945
 
 
 3,532
 


 
 
 
 


 Total available for sale
 
 $
3,478
 
 $
54,327
 
 $
177,945
 
 $
634,930
 
 $
870,680
 


 
 
 
 


 Weighted average yield*
 
 
 8.45%
 
 
 5.17%
 
 
 4.52%
 
 
 4.06%
 
 
 4.24%
 







*Adjusted
to reflect income related to securities exempt from federal income taxes. 
        Amounts in the table above are based on scheduled maturity dates. Variable interest rates are subject to change not less than annually based upon
certain interest rate indexes. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment
penalties. Equity securities of $5,410 do not have contractual maturities and are excluded from the table above. 
28



 
Table of Contents
        As
of December 31, 2011, there were no corporate bonds and other securities which represented more than 10% of shareholders' equity. 
        For
2011 the tax equivalent yield of the investment securities portfolio was 4.24%, compared to 4.58% and 5.11% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average life of the Company's
investment securities portfolio was 4.86 years at December 31, 2011. During 2011 the investment portfolio increased slightly in size as the Company's earnings were invested in the
portfolio as loan demand remained soft. The extremely low interest rate environment provided a strong opportunity for the Company to maximize portfolio return by strategically realizing market value
gains. Cash flows from security sales and normal monthly principal pay downs were reinvested at materially lower yields leading to sizable decline in portfolio yield. The reinvestments were focused on
a balanced approach between a likely long term low interest rate horizon and protection against cash flow extensions when rates do move higher. This investment strategy will allow the portfolio to
meet cash needs for future loan growth. 
        The
Company and its investment advisor monitor the securities portfolio on at least a quarterly basis for other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI"). The amount of
the OTTI recognized in earnings depends on whether the Company intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost
basis, less any current-period credit loss. If an entity intends to sell or it is more likely than not it will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, less any
current-period credit loss, the OTTI shall be recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment's amortized cost basis and its fair value at the balance sheet date. If an
entity does not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis less any current-period
loss, the OTTI shall be separated into the amount representing the credit loss and the amount related to all other factors. The amount of the total OTTI related to the credit loss is determined based
on the present value of cash flows expected to be collected and is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total OTTI related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of
applicable taxes. During 2010, the Company recorded $97 of impairment charges related to three of its equity securities. These securities were written down to their fair values, as based on the
financial condition of the companies, recovery of the fair value above cost could not be readily projected. 
 Sources of Funds  
        The Company relies primarily on customer deposits and securities sold under agreement to repurchase ("repurchase agreements") along
with shareholders' equity to fund earning assets. Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances are used to provide additional funding. The Company also attempts to obtain deposits through branch and whole
bank acquisitions. 
        Deposits
generated within local markets provide the major source of funding for earning assets. Average total deposits were 87.7% and 86.6% of total average earning assets for 2011 and
2010, respectively. Total interest-bearing deposits averaged 87.0% and 88.5% of average total deposits during 2011 and 2010. Management is continuing its efforts to increase the percentage of
transaction- related deposits to total deposits due to the positive effect on earnings. 
        Repurchase
agreements are high denomination investments utilized by public entities and commercial customers as an element of their cash management responsibilities. During 2011,
repurchase agreements averaged $30,404, with an average cost of 0.52%. 
        Another
source of funding is the Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB). The Company had FHLB advances of $151,427 outstanding at December 31, 2011. These advances have interest rates
ranging from 1.8% to 5.9% (see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for the maturity schedule of these advances). The Company averaged $148,824 in FHLB advances during 2011 compared
to $195,897 during 2010. This decrease in the average balance of FHLB borrowings was primarily due to the increased deposits generated by the Company which reduced the need for other funding sources.
One final source of funding is federal funds purchased. The Company had no federal funds purchased as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. 
 Average Deposits  




























 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
Amount
 
Rate
 
Amount
 
Rate
 
Amount
 
Rate
 


 
 


 Demand
 
 $
288,908
 
 
 
 
 $
259,607
 
 
 
 
 $
238,411
 
 
 
 


 Interest Bearing Demand
 
 
 843,523
 
 
 0.34
%
 
 780,125
 
 
 0.54
%
 
 631,905
 
 
 0.65
%


 Savings/Money Markets
 
 
 450,751
 
 
 0.30
 
 
 421,020
 
 
 0.48
 
 
 397,130
 
 
 0.75
 


 Certificates of Deposit
 
 
 631,270
 
 
 1.56
 
 
 798,471
 
 
 2.13
 
 
 928,689
 
 
 2.73
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Totals
 
 $
2,214,452
 
 
 0.64
%
 $
2,259,223
 
 
 1.03
%
 $
2,196,135
 
 
 1.47
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




29



 
Table of Contents
        As
of December 31, 2011, certificates of deposit and other time deposits of $100 or more mature as follows: 

























 
 
3 months or less
 
4-6 months
 
6-12 months
 
over 12 months
 
Total
 


 
 


 Amount
 
 $
44,118
 
 $
23,585
 
 $
34,067
 
 $
74,286
 
 $
176,056
 


 Percent
 
 
 25%
 
 
 14%
 
 
 19%
 
 
 42%
 
 
 
 




 Capital Resources  
        The Federal Reserve Board and other regulatory agencies have adopted risk-based capital guidelines that assign risk
weightings to assets and off-balance sheet items. The Company's core capital ("Tier 1") consists of common shareholders' equity adjusted for unrealized gains or losses on available
for sale (AFS) securities plus limited amounts of Trust Preferred Securities less goodwill and intangible assets. Total capital consists of core capital, certain debt instruments and a portion of the
allowance for loan losses. At December 31, 2011, Tier 1 capital to average assets was 10.8%. Total capital to risk-weighted assets was 18.9%. Both ratios exceed all required
ratios established for bank holding companies. Risk-adjusted capital levels of the Company's subsidiary bank also exceed regulatory definitions of well-capitalized
institutions. 
        The
Trust Preferred Securities (which are classified as subordinated debentures) qualify as Tier 1 capital or core capital with respect to the Company under the
risk-based capital guidelines established by the Federal Reserve. Under such guidelines, capital received from the proceeds of the sale of these securities cannot constitute more than 25%
of the total Tier 1 capital of the Company. Consequently, the amount of Trust Preferred Securities in excess of the 25% limitation constitutes Tier 2 capital, or supplementary capital,
of the Company. As of December 31, 2011, all of the Company's Trust Preferred Securities qualify as Tier 1 capital. 
        Common
shareholders' equity is impacted by the Company's decision to categorize its securities portfolio as available for sale (AFS). Securities in this category are carried at fair
value, and common shareholders' equity is adjusted to reflect unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes. 
        The
Company declared and paid common dividends of $.04 per share in 2011 compared to $.04 and $.26 in 2010 and 2009 respectively. Book value per common share increased to $13.87 at
December 31, 2011 compared to $12.24 at the end of 2010. The net adjustment for AFS securities increased book value per share by $1.13 at December 31, 2011 and increased book value per
share by $.47 at December 31, 2010. Depending on market conditions, the adjustment for AFS securities can cause significant fluctuations in shareholders' equity. 
        On
January 16, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with the United States Department of Treasury (the "Treasury Department") as part of the Treasury Department's Capital
Purchase Program. Under this agreement, the Company issued to the Treasury Department 57,000 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A ("preferred stock") and a
warrant to purchase up to 571,906 shares ("warrant shares") of the Company's common stock. Like stock options, the warrant issued through the Capital Purchase Program is potentially dilutive. The
average stock price for the Company for 2011 and 2010 was $8.86 and $7.43 per share respectively, and the warrant issued in 2009 has an exercise price of $14.95 per share. This results in no
additional potentially dilutive shares during 2010 and 2011. 
        The
preferred stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years and 9% per year thereafter. The Company may, at its option and at any time, redeem the
preferred stock for the liquidation amount of $1,000 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. While the preferred stock is outstanding, the Company may only pay dividends on common stock if
all accrued and unpaid dividends for the preferred stock have been paid. See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details on the Company's participation in the
Capital Purchase Program. 
 Liquidity  
        Liquidity management involves maintaining sufficient cash levels to fund operations and to meet the requirements of borrowers,
depositors and creditors. Higher levels of liquidity bear higher corresponding costs, measured in terms of lower yields on short-term, more liquid earning assets and higher interest
expense involved in extending liability maturities. Liquid assets include cash and cash equivalents, loans and securities maturing within one year and money market instruments. In addition, the
Company holds approximately $867,202 of AFS securities maturing after one year, which can be sold to meet liquidity needs. 
        Maintaining
a relatively stable funding base, which is achieved by diversifying funding sources, supports liquidity, extends the contractual maturity of liabilities, and limits reliance
on volatile short-term purchased funds. Short-term funding needs may arise from declines in deposits or other funding sources, funding of loan commitments and requests for new
loans. The Company's strategy is to fund assets to the maximum extent possible with core deposits, which provide a sizable source of relatively stable low-cost funds. The Company defines
core deposits as all deposits except certificates of deposits greater than $100. Average core deposits funded approximately 79.5% of total earning assets during 2011 and approximately 76.7% in 2010. 
30



 
Table of Contents
        Management
believes the Company has sufficient liquidity to meet all reasonable borrower, depositor and creditor needs in the present economic environment. The Company has not received
any directives from regulatory authorities that would materially affect liquidity, capital resources or operations. 
 Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Total
 
Less than 1 Year
 
1-3 Years
 
3-5 Years
 
More than 5 Years
 


 
 


 Time Deposits
 
 $
547,376
 
 $
336,069
 
 $
189,384
 
 $
13,964
 
 $
7,959
 


 FHLB Advances
 
 
 151,427
 
 
 20,591
 
 
 40,633
 
 
 25,116
 
 
 65,087
 


 Subordinated Debentures
 
 
 50,267
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 50,267
 


 Operating Lease Commitments
 
 
 4,017
 
 
 951
 
 
 1,799
 
 
 905
 
 
 362
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
753,087
 
 $
357,611
 
 $
231,816
 
 $
39,985
 
 $
123,675
 


 
 
 
 




 Off-balance Sheet Arrangements  
        The Bank incurs off-balance sheet risks in the normal course of business in order to meet the financing needs of its
customers. These risks derive from commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit. Off-balance sheet risk to credit loss exists up to the face amount of these instruments,
although material losses are not anticipated. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details on the Company's off-balance sheet arrangements. 
 Interest Rate Risk Management  
        Interest rate risk is the exposure of the Company's financial condition to adverse changes in market interest rates. In an effort to
estimate the impact of sustained interest rate movements to the Company's earnings, the Company monitors interest rate risk through computer-assisted simulation modeling of its net interest income.
The Company's simulation modeling monitors the potential impact to net interest income under various interest rate scenarios. The Company's objective is to actively manage its asset/liability position
within a one-year interval and to limit the risk in any of the interest rate scenarios to a reasonable level of tax-equivalent net interest income within that interval. The
Company monitors compliance within established guidelines of the Funds Management Policy. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk section for further discussion
regarding interest rate risk. 
 Critical Accounting Policies  
        The accounting and reporting policies of the Company comply with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and
conform to general practices within the banking industry. These policies require estimates and assumptions. Changes in underlying factors, assumptions, or estimates in any of these areas could have a
material impact on the Company's future financial condition and results of operations. In management's opinion, some of these areas have a more significant impact than others on the Company's
financial reporting. These areas currently include accounting for the allowance for loan losses, goodwill, income taxes, and mortgage servicing rights. 
        Allowance
for Loan Losses — The level of the allowance for loan losses is based upon management's evaluation of the loan and lease portfolios, past loan loss
experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay (including the timing of future payments), the estimated value of any
underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, and other pertinent factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including the
amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change. The level of allowance maintained is believed by management to be
adequate to cover losses inherent in the portfolio. The allowance is increased by provisions charged to expense and decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries of amounts previously
charged-off. 
        Goodwill —
Goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are subject to annual impairment tests. The Company has selected June 30 as its date
for annual impairment testing, but will test more frequently if circumstances warrant. During 2009, the Company determined that goodwill might be impaired and tested it for impairment at
May 31, 2009 and November 30, 2009. See Note 9 in the financial statements for further discussion of the goodwill impairment charges taken in 2009. No goodwill impairment was
identified during testing performed in 2010 or 2011. 
        Income
taxes — The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and the municipalities in which it operates. These tax laws are complex and
subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant government taxing authorities. The Company reviews income tax expense and the carrying value of deferred tax assets; and as new
information becomes available, the balances are adjusted as appropriate. In establishing a provision for income tax expense, the Company makes judgments and 
31



 
Table of Contents
interpretations
about the application of these inherently complex tax laws and also makes estimates about when in the future certain items will affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. 
        Mortgage
servicing rights — The Company originally records mortgage servicing rights at fair value and amortizes them over the period of the estimated future net
servicing income of the underlying loans. The servicing rights are evaluated for impairment based upon the fair value of the rights as compared to the carrying amount. Impairment is determined by
stratifying rights into groupings based on predominant risk characteristics, such as interest rate, loan type and investor type. Impairment is recognized through a valuation allowance for an
individual grouping, to the extent that fair value is less than the carrying amount. 
 New Accounting Matters  
        See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the adoption of new accounting standards in 2011. 
32



 
Table of Contents
 
    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
        The Company's exposure to market risk is reviewed on a regular basis by the Asset/Liability Committee and Boards of Directors of the
Company and the Bank. Primary market risks, which impact the Company's operations, are liquidity risk and interest rate risk, as discussed above. 
        As
discussed previously, the Company monitors interest rate risk by the use of computer simulation modeling to estimate the potential impact on its net interest income under various
interest rate scenarios. Another method by which the Company's interest rate risk position can be estimated is by computing estimated changes in its net portfolio value ("NPV"). This method estimates
interest rate risk exposure from movements in interest rates by using interest rate sensitivity analysis to determine the change in the NPV of discounted cash flows from assets and liabilities.
Computations are based on a number of assumptions, including the relative levels of market interest rates and prepayments in mortgage loans and certain types of
investments. These computations do not contemplate any actions management may undertake in response to changes in interest rates, and should not be relied upon as indicative of actual results. In
addition, certain shortcomings are inherent in the method of computing NPV. Should interest rates remain or decrease below current levels, the proportion of adjustable rate loans could decrease in
future periods due to refinancing activity. In the event of an interest rate change, prepayment levels would likely be different from those assumed in the table. Lastly, the ability of many borrowers
to repay their adjustable rate debt may decline during a rising interest rate environment. 
        The
following tables provide an assessment of the risk to NPV in the event of sudden and sustained 1% and 2% increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates. The table indicates
that as of December 31, 2011 the Company's estimated NPV might be expected to increase in the event of a decrease in prevailing interest rates, and might be expected to generally decrease in
the event of a increase in prevailing interest rates (dollars in thousands). As of December 31, 2010 the Company's estimated NPV would generally decrease in the event of a decrease in
prevailing rates and decrease in the event of an increase in rates. 
 December 31, 2011  

























 
 
Change in Rates
 
$ Amount
 
$ Change
 
NPV Ratio
 
Change
 


 
 


 
 
 
 +2%
 
 
 644,734
 
 
 (71,698
)
 
 23.28%
 
 
 (88
)


 
 
 
 +1%
 
 
 679,598
 
 
 (36,834
)
 
 23.75%
 
 
 (41
)


 
 
 
 Base
 
 
 716,432
 
 
 —
 
 
 24.16%
 
 
 —
 


 
 
 
 -1%
 
 
 723,324
 
 
 6,892
 
 
 23.73%
 
 
 (43
)


 
 
 
 -2%
 
 
 814,930
 
 
 98,498
 
 
 25.51%
 
 
 135
 




 December 31, 2010  
























 
 
Change in Rates
 
$ Amount
 
$ Change
 
NPV Ratio
 
Change


 


 
 
 
 +2%
 
 
 599,777
 
 
 (12,600
)
 
 22.01%
 
 
 69


 
 
 
 +1%
 
 
 612,598
 
 
 221
 
 
 21.87%
 
 
 55


 
 
 
 Base
 
 
 612,377
 
 
 —
 
 
 21.32%
 
 
 —


 
 
 
 -1%
 
 
 580,467
 
 
 (31,910
)
 
 19.95%
 
 
 (137)


 
 
 
 -2%
 
 
 538,946
 
 
 (73,431
)
 
 18.34%
 
 
 (298)




        The
above discussion, and the portions of MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS in Item 7 of this Report that are referenced in the above discussion contains statements relating to
future results of the Company that are considered "forward-looking-statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other
things, simulation of the impact on net interest income from changes in interest rates. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied therein as a result of certain risks and
uncertainties, including those risks and uncertainties expressed above, those that are described in MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS in Item 7 of this Report, those that are described in
Item 1 of this Report, "Business," under the caption "Forward-Looking-Statements," and those that are described in Item 1A of this Report, "Risk Factors", all of which discussions are
incorporated herein by reference. 
33




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     

















 
 


 
 
 Crowe Horwath LLP Independent Member Crowe Horwath International




 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
Board
of Directors and Shareholders
MainSource Financial Group, Inc.
Greensburg, Indiana 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MainSource Financial Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the related consolidated statements of
operations, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. We also have audited MainSource Financial Group, Inc.'s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). MainSource Financial Group, Inc.'s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the company's internal
control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control
based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinions. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MainSource Financial Group, Inc. as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion MainSource Financial Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued
by the COSO. 











 
 
 /s/ Crowe Horwath LLP


 Indianapolis, Indiana
March 12, 2012
 

 




34




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  MAINSOURCE FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS  (Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)     
















 
 
December 31, 2011
 
December 31, 2010
 


 
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and due from banks
 
 $
66,864
 
 $
40,423
 


 Money market funds and federal funds sold
 
 
 42,284
 
 
 19,700
 


 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 109,148
 
 
 60,123
 


 Securities available for sale
 
 
 876,090
 
 
 806,071
 


 Loans held for sale
 
 
 16,620
 
 
 5,845
 


 Loans, net of allowance for loan losses of $39,889 and $42,605
 
 
 1,494,490
 
 
 1,638,366
 


 Restricted stock, at cost
 
 
 15,856
 
 
 19,502
 


 Premises and equipment, net
 
 
 50,652
 
 
 48,861
 


 Goodwill
 
 
 61,919
 
 
 61,919
 


 Purchased intangible assets
 
 
 7,163
 
 
 9,102
 


 Cash surrender value of life insurance
 
 
 48,204
 
 
 47,756
 


 Interest receivable and other assets
 
 
 74,038
 
 
 71,767
 


 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 $
2,754,180
 
 $
2,769,312
 


 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deposits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noninterest bearing
 
 $
334,345
 
 $
268,390
 


 Interest bearing
 
 
 1,825,555
 
 
 1,943,174
 


 
 
 
 


 Total deposits
 
 
 2,159,900
 
 
 2,211,564
 


 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase
 
 
 25,789
 
 
 33,181
 


 Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances
 
 
 151,427
 
 
 152,065
 


 Subordinated debentures
 
 
 50,267
 
 
 50,117
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
 30,244
 
 
 19,815
 


 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 2,417,627
 
 
 2,466,742
 


 Commitments and contingent liabilities (Note 17)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Shareholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred stock, no par value
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Authorized shares — 400,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issued and outstanding shares — 57,000;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Aggregate liquidation preference $57,000
 
 
 56,387
 
 
 56,183
 


 Common stock $.50 stated value:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Authorized shares — 100,000,000
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issued shares — 20,780,616 and 20,710,764
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding shares — 20,206,214 and 20,136,188
 
 
 10,411
 
 
 10,394
 


 Treasury stock — 574,402 shares, at cost
 
 
 (9,367
)
 
 (9,367
)


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
 223,510
 
 
 223,134
 


 Retained earnings
 
 
 32,720
 
 
 12,768
 


 Accumulated other comprehensive income
 
 
 22,892
 
 
 9,458
 


 
 
 
 


 Total shareholders' equity
 
 
 336,553
 
 
 302,570
 


 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
 
 $
2,754,180
 
 $
2,769,312
 


 
 
 
 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
35




 










Table of Contents 
 MAINSOURCE FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010, AND 2009
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)  



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Interest income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loans, including fees
 
 $
92,941
 
 $
105,179
 
 $
115,873
 


 Securities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Taxable
 
 
 16,040
 
 
 18,830
 
 
 19,490
 


 Tax exempt
 
 
 12,415
 
 
 10,360
 
 
 7,663
 


 Federal funds sold and money market funds
 
 
 212
 
 
 114
 
 
 128
 


 Deposits with financial institutions
 
 
 3
 
 
 88
 
 
 87
 


 
 
 
 


 Total interest income
 
 
 121,611
 
 
 134,571
 
 
 143,241
 


 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deposits
 
 
 14,111
 
 
 23,162
 
 
 32,497
 


 Federal Home Loan Bank advances
 
 
 5,754
 
 
 8,144
 
 
 10,235
 


 Subordinated debentures
 
 
 1,737
 
 
 1,755
 
 
 2,059
 


 Other borrowings
 
 
 161
 
 
 258
 
 
 442
 


 
 
 
 


 Total interest expense
 
 
 21,763
 
 
 33,319
 
 
 45,233
 


 
 
 
 


 Net interest income
 
 
 99,848
 
 
 101,252
 
 
 98,008
 


 Provision for loan losses
 
 
 17,800
 
 
 35,250
 
 
 46,310
 


 
 
 
 


 Net interest income after provision for loan losses
 
 
 82,048
 
 
 66,002
 
 
 51,698
 


 Non-interest income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Service charges on deposit accounts
 
 
 18,147
 
 
 17,462
 
 
 16,537
 


 Interchange income
 
 
 6,225
 
 
 5,487
 
 
 5,178
 


 Mortgage banking
 
 
 5,551
 
 
 7,642
 
 
 9,028
 


 Trust and investment product fees
 
 
 3,250
 
 
 2,363
 
 
 1,743
 


 Increase in cash surrender value of life insurance
 
 
 1,200
 
 
 1,246
 
 
 890
 


 Net realized gains on securities
 
 
 11,357
 
 
 2,979
 
 
 1,263
 


 Gain/(loss) on sale and write-down of OREO
 
 
 (2,744
)
 
 (1,097
)
 
 200
 


 Insurance commissions
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,711
 
 
 2,071
 


 Other income
 
 
 2,322
 
 
 3,498
 
 
 3,140
 


 
 
 
 


 Total non-interest income
 
 
 45,308
 
 
 41,291
 
 
 40,050
 


 Non-interest expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Salaries and employee benefits
 
 
 49,950
 
 
 50,138
 
 
 46,342
 


 Net occupancy
 
 
 6,686
 
 
 6,654
 
 
 6,660
 


 Equipment
 
 
 7,822
 
 
 7,855
 
 
 7,468
 


 Intangibles amortization
 
 
 1,939
 
 
 2,066
 
 
 2,199
 


 Telecommunications
 
 
 1,991
 
 
 1,882
 
 
 2,015
 


 Stationery printing and supplies
 
 
 1,510
 
 
 1,478
 
 
 1,608
 


 FDIC assessment
 
 
 3,974
 
 
 4,940
 
 
 4,976
 


 Marketing
 
 
 4,057
 
 
 3,412
 
 
 3,040
 


 Collection expenses
 
 
 4,334
 
 
 3,579
 
 
 3,255
 


 Goodwill impairment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 80,310
 


 Consultant expense
 
 
 6,547
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Other expenses
 
 
 10,995
 
 
 10,248
 
 
 9,659
 


 
 
 
 


 Total non-interest expense
 
 
 99,805
 
 
 92,252
 
 
 167,532
 


 
 
 
 


 Income/(loss) before income tax
 
 
 27,551
 
 
 15,041
 
 
 (75,784
)


 Income tax expense/(benefit)
 
 
 3,738
 
 
 239
 
 
 (11,645
)


 
 
 
 


 Net income/(loss)
 
 $
23,813
 
 $
14,802
 
 $
(64,139
)


 Preferred dividends and discount accretion
 
 
 3,054
 
 
 3,054
 
 
 2,919
 


 
 
 
 


 Net income/(loss) attributable to common shareholders
 
 $
20,759
 
 $
11,748
 
 $
(67,058
)


 
 
 
 


 Net income/(loss) per common share — basic
 
 $
1.03
 
 $
0.58
 
 $
(3.33
)


 Net income/(loss) per common share — diluted
 
 $
1.03
 
 $
0.58
 
 $
(3.33
)




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
36




 










Table of Contents 
 MAINSOURCE FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010, AND 2009
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)  





































 
 
 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income/(Loss)
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Preferred Stock
 
Shares
Outstanding
 
Amount
 
Treasury
Stock
 
Additional Paid-in Capital
 
Retained
Earnings
 
Total
 
Comprehensive Income
 


 
 


 Balance, January 1, 2009
 
 $
—
 
 
 20,136,188
 
 $
10,394
 
 $
(9,367
)
 $
221,789
 
 $
74,018
 
 $
3,115
 
 $
299,949
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (64,139
)
 
 
 
 
 (64,139
)
 $
(64,139
)


 Change in unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, net of tax and reclassification effects
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9,496
 
 
 9,496
 
 
 9,496
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive loss           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
(54,643
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash dividends ($.255 per share) — common stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (5,135
)
 
 
 
 
 (5,135
)
 
 
 


 Issuance of preferred stock, net of issuance costs
 
 
 55,783
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 55,783
 
 
 
 


 Accretion of preferred stock discount
 
 
 196
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (196
)
 
 
 
 
 —
 
 
 
 


 Stock option expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 115
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 115
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of warrant to purchase common stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,116
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1,116
 
 
 
 


 Dividends — preferred stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,723
)
 
 
 
 
 (2,723
)
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31, 2009
 
 
 55,979
 
 
 20,136,188
 
 
 10,394
 
 
 (9,367
)
 
 223,020
 
 
 1,825
 
 
 12,611
 
 
 294,462
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14,802
 
 
 
 
 
 14,802
 
 $
14,802
 


 Change in unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, net of tax and reclassification effects
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3,153
)
 
 (3,153
)
 
 (3,153
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
11,649
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock option expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 114
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 114
 
 
 
 


 Cash dividends ($.04 per share) — common stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (805
)
 
 
 
 
 (805
)
 
 
 


 Dividends — preferred stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,850
)
 
 
 
 
 (2,850
)
 
 
 


 Accretion of preferred stock discount
 
 
 204
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (204
)
 
 
 
 
 —
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31, 2010
 
 
 56,183
 
 
 20,136,188
 
 
 10,394
 
 
 (9,367
)
 
 223,134
 
 
 12,768
 
 
 9,458
 
 
 302,570
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 23,813
 
 
 
 
 
 23,813
 
 $
23,813
 


 Change in unrealized gains/(losses) on securities, net of tax and reclassification effects
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13,434
 
 
 13,434
 
 
 13,434
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 $
37,247
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock option expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 72
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 72
 
 
 
 


 Cash dividends ($.04 per share) — common stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (807
)
 
 
 
 
 (807
)
 
 
 


 Restricted stock award
 
 
 
 
 
 46,244
 
 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
 96
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 101
 
 
 
 


 Director retainer award
 
 
 
 
 
 23,782
 
 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 208
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 220
 
 
 
 


 Dividends — preferred stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2,850
)
 
 
 
 
 (2,850
)
 
 
 


 Accretion of preferred stock discount
 
 
 204
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (204
)
 
 
 
 
 —
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 $
56,387
 
 
 20,206,214
 
 $
10,411
 
 $
(9,367
)
 $
223,510
 
 $
32,720
 
 $
22,892
 
 $
336,553
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
37




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
  MAINSOURCE FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOW  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010, AND 2009  (Dollars in thousands)     
















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Operating Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 $
23,813
 
 $
14,802
 
 $
(64,139
)


 Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Provision for loan losses
 
 
 17,800
 
 
 35,250
 
 
 46,310
 


 Depreciation expense
 
 
 5,074
 
 
 5,276
 
 
 5,351
 


 Amortization of mortgage servicing rights
 
 
 1,388
 
 
 1,424
 
 
 2,317
 


 Change in valuation allowance on mortgage servicing rights
 
 
 (45
)
 
 (132
)
 
 (600
)


 Securities amortization, net
 
 
 2,693
 
 
 1,794
 
 
 (72
)


 Amortization of purchased intangible assets
 
 
 1,939
 
 
 2,066
 
 
 2,199
 


 Earnings on cash surrender value of life insurance policies
 
 
 (1,200
)
 
 (1,246
)
 
 (890
)


 Gain on life insurance benefit
 
 
 (141
)
 
 (67
)
 
 (128
)


 Gain on sale of insurance related business line
 
 
 —
 
 
 (988
)
 
 —
 


 Securities gains
 
 
 (11,357
)
 
 (2,979
)
 
 (1,263
)


 Gain on loans sold
 
 
 (3,494
)
 
 (5,152
)
 
 (5,548
)


 Loans originated for sale
 
 
 (195,344
)
 
 (274,111
)
 
 (419,192
)


 Proceeds from loan sales
 
 
 188,063
 
 
 278,546
 
 
 424,559
 


 Stock based compensation expense
 
 
 173
 
 
 114
 
 
 115
 


 Director retainer fee expense
 
 
 220
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Gain/(loss) on sale and write-down of OREO
 
 
 2,744
 
 
 1,097
 
 
 (200
)


 Goodwill impairment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 80,310
 


 Change in other assets and liabilities
 
 
 3,734
 
 
 6,940
 
 
 (33,045
)


 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
 36,060
 
 
 62,634
 
 
 36,084
 


 Investing Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net change in time deposits
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 116
 


 Purchases of securities available for sale
 
 
 (527,834
)
 
 (363,844
)
 
 (451,603
)


 Proceeds from calls, maturities, and payments on securities available for sale
 
 
 120,588
 
 
 157,154
 
 
 172,390
 


 Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale
 
 
 366,559
 
 
 111,564
 
 
 93,855
 


 Loan originations and payments, net
 
 
 102,983
 
 
 154,068
 
 
 124,944
 


 Purchases of premises and equipment
 
 
 (6,865
)
 
 (4,660
)
 
 (2,490
)


 Proceeds from sale and write-down of OREO
 
 
 16,346
 
 
 8,928
 
 
 7,566
 


 Sale of insurance related business line
 
 
 —
 
 
 2,000
 
 
 —
 


 Proceeds from redemption of restricted stock
 
 
 3,646
 
 
 7,857
 
 
 2,362
 


 Proceeds from life insurance benefit
 
 
 893
 
 
 124
 
 
 442
 


 Cash received from bank acquisitions, net
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 17,566
 


 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided (used) by investing activities
 
 
 76,316
 
 
 73,191
 
 
 (34,852
)


 Financing Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net change in deposits
 
 
 (51,664
)
 
 (59,086
)
 
 173,291
 


 Net change in other borrowings
 
 
 (7,392
)
 
 (14,450
)
 
 (36,817
)


 Proceeds from FHLB advances
 
 
 15,000
 
 
 —
 
 
 50,000
 


 Repayment of FHLB advances
 
 
 (15,638
)
 
 (70,200
)
 
 (260,902
)


 Cash dividends on preferred stock
 
 
 (2,850
)
 
 (2,850
)
 
 (2,367
)


 Cash dividends on common stock
 
 
 (807
)
 
 (805
)
 
 (5,135
)


 Issuance of preferred shares, net of issuance costs
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 55,783
 


 Issuance of warrants to purchase common stock
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 1,116
 


 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
 
 
 (63,351
)
 
 (147,391
)
 
 (25,031
)


 
 
 
 


 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 49,025
 
 
 (11,566
)
 
 (23,799
)


 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year
 
 
 60,123
 
 
 71,689
 
 
 95,488
 


 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year
 
 $
109,148
 
 $
60,123
 
 $
71,689
 


 
 
 
 


 Supplemental cash flow information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest paid
 
 $
23,263
 
 $
34,714
 
 $
47,011
 


 Income taxes paid/(refunded)
 
 
 2,672
 
 
 (1,675
)
 
 1,820
 


 Supplemental non cash disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loan balances transferred to foreclosed real estate
 
 
 23,093
 
 
 11,115
 
 
 11,915
 



        See Note 2 regarding non-cash transactions included in acquisitions. 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
38




 










Table of Contents 
 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Dollar amounts in thousands except per share data)  
 NOTE 1 — SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
        Nature of Operations and Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include MainSource Financial Group, Inc. and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, together referred to as "the Company". Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation. 
        The
Company's wholly owned subsidiaries include MainSource Bank ("the Bank"), MainSource Title, LLC, MainSource Insurance, LLC, and Insurance Services
Marketing, LLC. On October 1, 2010, the Company sold its property and casualty and health insurance book of businesses related to its insurance subsidiary, MainSource Insurance (MSI), to
Encore Insurance Group, LLC. This sale did not materially affect the Company's financial condition or results of operation. In November 2009, the Company merged MainSource Bank of Illinois into
MainSource Bank. On December 2009, the Company merged MainSource Bank — Ohio into MainSource Bank. 
        The
Company provides financial services through its offices in Indiana, Illinois, Ohio, and Kentucky. Its primary deposit products are checking, savings, and term certificate accounts,
and its primary lending products are residential mortgage, commercial, and installment loans. Substantially all loans are secured by specific items of collateral including business assets, consumer
assets and real estate. Other financial instruments which potentially represent concentrations of credit risk include deposit accounts in other financial institutions and federal funds sold. See the
Loan Policy section for further discussion on loan information. 
         Use of Estimates: To prepare financial statements in conformity with U. S. generally accepted account principles, management makes estimates and
assumptions based on available information. These estimates and assumptions affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the disclosures provided and actual results could differ. The
allowance for loan losses, carrying value of goodwill, loan servicing rights, other real estate owned and fair values of financial instruments are particularly subject to change. 
        Cash Flows: Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest bearing deposits with other financial institutions with maturities
under 90 days, money market funds and federal funds sold. Net cash flows are reported for loan and deposit transactions, federal funds purchased and repurchase agreements. 
         Securities: Securities are classified as available for sale when they might be sold before maturity. Securities available for sale are carried at
fair value, with unrealized holding gains and losses reported in other comprehensive income, net of tax. 
        Interest
income includes amortization of purchase premium or discount. Premiums and discounts on securities are amortized on the level-yield method, which considers prepayments only on
mortgage-backed securities. Gains and losses on sales are recorded on the trade date and are based on the amortized cost of the security sold. The Company evaluates securities for
other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") at least on a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation. For securities in an
unrealized loss position, management considers the extent and duration of the unrealized loss, and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer. Management also assesses
whether it intends to sell, or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell, a security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If either of the
criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met, the entire difference between amortized cost and fair value is recognized as impairment through earnings. For debt securities that do not meet
the aforementioned criteria, the amount of impairment is split into two components as follows: 1) OTTI related to credit loss, which must be recognized in the income statement and
2) other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) related to other factors, which is recognized in other comprehensive income. The credit loss is defined as the difference
between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis. For equity securities, the entire amount of impairment is recognized through earnings. 
        Loans Held for Sale: Loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market are carried at the lower of cost or market in the aggregate, as
determined by outstanding commitments from investors. Net unrealized losses, if any, are recorded as a valuation allowance and charged to earnings. 
        Mortgage
loans held for sale are generally sold with servicing rights retained. The carrying value of mortgage loans sold is reduced by the amount allocated to the servicing right. Gains
and losses on sales of mortgage loans are based on the difference between the selling price and the carrying value of the related loan sold. 
        Loans: Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff are reported at the principal
balance outstanding, net of purchase premiums or discounts, unearned interest, deferred loan fees and costs, and an allowance for loan losses. Interest income is accrued on the unpaid principal
balance. Loan origination fees, net of certain direct origination costs, are deferred and recognized in interest income using the level-yield method without anticipating prepayments. 
39



 
Table of Contents
        For
all classes of financing receivables, interest income is not reported when full loan repayment is in doubt, typically when the loan is impaired or payments are past due over
90 days. Past due status is based on the contractual terms of the loan. Loans are placed on non-accrual or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or
interest is considered doubtful. 
        For
all classes of financing receivables, interest accrued but not received for loans placed on non-accrual is reversed against interest income. Payments received on such
loans subsequent to being placed on non-accrual are applied to the principal balance of the loans. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts
contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. Non-accrual loans and loans past due 90 days still on accrual include both smaller balance
homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and individually classified impaired loans. Troubled Debt Restructurings, (TDRs), normally follow the same guidelines as regular loans
in placing on non-accrual status. 
         Allowance for Loan Losses: The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable incurred credit losses. Loan losses are charged
against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Management estimates the allowance
balance required using past loan loss experience, the nature and volume of the portfolio, information about specific borrower situations and estimated
collateral values, economic conditions, and other factors. Allocations of the allowance may be made for specific loans, but the entire allowance is available for any loan that, in management's
judgment, should be charged-off. 
        The
allowance consists of specific and general components. The specific component relates to loans that are individually classified as impaired. The general component covers
non-impaired loans and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for current factors. The historical loss experience is determined by portfolio segment and is based on the actual
loss history experienced by the Company over the most recent 3 years. This actual loss experience is supplemented with other economic factors based on the risks present for each portfolio
segment. These economic factors include consideration of the following: levels of and trends in delinquencies and impaired loans; levels of and trends in charge-offs and recoveries; trends
in volume and terms of loans; effects of any changes in risk selection and underwriting standards; other changes in lending policies, procedures, and practices; experience, ability, and depth of
lending management and other relevant staff; national and local economic trends and conditions; industry conditions; and effects of changes in credit concentrations 
        For
allowance purposes, the following portfolio segments have been identified: Commercial, Commercial Real Estate (CRE), Residential Real Estate and Consumer. The classes within the
Commercial portfolio are commercial and industrial and agricultural. The classes within the Commercial Real Estate portfolio are farm, hotel, construction and development, and other. The classes
within the Residential Real Estate portfolio are 1-4 family and home equity. Finally, the classes within the Consumer portfolio are direct and indirect. 
        The
risk characteristics of each loan portfolio segment are as follows: 
Commercial 
        The
commercial portfolio contains commercial and industrial and agricultural loans. Commercial loans are made to commercial customers for use in normal
business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases, agricultural financing, or other projects and are repaid from operations of the business. The majority of these borrowers are
customers doing business within the Company's geographic regions. Commercial loans are generally underwritten individually and secured with the assets of the company and/or the personal guarantee of
the business owners. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to
collect amounts due from its customers. 
Commercial
real estate 
        Commercial
real estate loans consist of loans for income-producing real estate properties and real estate developers. The Company mitigates its risk on these
loans by requiring collateral values that exceed the loan amount and underwriting the loan with projected cash flow in excess of the debt service requirement. These loans are made to finance
properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, hotels, farm real estate, and retail shopping centers; and are repaid through cash flows related to the operation, sale, or
refinance of the property. 
Residential
real estate 
        The
residential portfolio contains residential mortgage and home equity loans. Residential mortgage loans represent loans to consumers for the purchase or
refinance of a residence. These loans are generally financed over a 15- to 30- year term, and in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence.
Residential loans are secured by the residence being financed. For residential loans that are secured by 1-4 family residences and are generally owner occupied, the Company generally
establishes a maximum loan-to-value ratio and requires private mortgage insurance if that ratio is exceeded. Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and
lines-of-credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first- or second- lien on the borrower's residence, 
40



 
Table of Contents
allows
customers to borrow against the equity in their home. Repayment of these loans is primarily dependent on the personal income of the borrowers, which can be impacted by economic conditions in
their market areas such as unemployment levels. Repayment can also be impacted by changes in property values on residential properties. Risk is mitigated by the fact that the loans are of smaller
individual amounts and spread over a large number of borrowers. 
Consumer 
        The
consumer portfolio consists of direct and indirect installment loans. The largest percentage of the direct consumer loans are automobile loans and the
automobile or other vehicle is normally used as collateral for the loan. The Company no longer writes any indirect loans. These loans are generally financed over a short (3-7 year)
time horizon. Similar to the residential loans above, repayment of these loans is primarily dependent on the personal income of the borrowers, which can be impacted by economic conditions in their
market areas such as unemployment levels. Risk is mitigated by the fact that the loans are of smaller individual amounts and spread over a large number of borrowers. 
        All
loans are charged off when the Company has determined that future collectability of the entire loan balance is doubtful. For commercial and commercial real estate loans, collateral
dependent loans are written down to the discounted fair value of the collateral. 
        A
loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest
when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management
determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the
borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower's prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Loans, for
which the terms have been modified, and for which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, are considered troubled debt restructurings and classified as impaired. Impairment is measured on
a loan by loan basis for commercial and commercial real estate loans by either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, the loan's obtainable
market price, or the fair
value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. Large groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans are collectively evaluated for impairment. Accordingly, the Company does not separately
identify individual consumer and residential real estate loans for impairment disclosures. A specific reserve is established as a component of the allowance when a loan has been determined to be
impaired for all commercial and commercial real estate loans greater than $250, unless the loan is a TDR in which case all loans are evaluated for impairment regardless of size. 
         Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) Stock: The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") system. Members are required to own a certain amount
of stock based on the level of borrowings and other factors, and may invest in additional amounts. FHLB stock is carried at cost, classified as a restricted security, and periodically evaluated for
impairment based on ultimate recovery of par value. Both cash and stock dividends are reported as income. 
         Premises and Equipment: Land is carried at cost. Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Buildings and related
components are depreciated using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging from 30 to 39 years for buildings and 5 to 15 years for related components. Furniture,
fixtures and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging from 3 to 10 years. 
         Foreclosed Assets: Assets acquired through or instead of loan foreclosure are initially recorded at fair value net of estimated selling costs when
acquired, establishing a new cost basis. If fair value declines after acquisition, a valuation allowance is recorded through expense. Costs after acquisition are expensed. 
         Company Owned Life Insurance: The Company has purchased life insurance policies on certain employees. Company owned life insurance is recorded at the
amount that can be realized under the insurance contract at the balance sheet date, which is the cash surrender value adjusted for other charges or other amounts due that are probable at settlement. 
         Servicing Assets: Servicing rights are recognized separately when they are acquired through sales of loans. When mortgage loans are sold, servicing
rights are initially recorded at fair value with the income statement effect recorded in mortgage banking in non-interest income. Fair value is based on a valuation model that calculates
the present value of estimated future net servicing income. All classes of servicing assets are subsequently measured using the amortization method which requires servicing rights to be amortized into
non-interest income in proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated future net servicing income of the underlying loans. 
        Servicing
assets are evaluated for impairment based upon the fair value of the rights as compared to carrying amount. Impairment is determined by stratifying rights into groupings based
on predominant risk characteristics, such as interest rate, loan type and investor type. Impairment is recognized through a valuation allowance for an individual grouping, to the extent that fair
value is less than the carrying amount. If the Company later determines that all or a portion of the impairment no longer exists for a 
41



 
Table of Contents
particular
grouping, a reduction of the allowance may be recorded as an increase to income. Changes in valuation allowances are reported with mortgage banking on the income statement. The fair values
of servicing rights are subject to significant fluctuations as a result of changes in estimated and actual prepayment speeds and default rates and losses. 
        Servicing
fee income, which is reported on the income statement as mortgage banking in non-interest income, is recorded for fees earned for servicing loans. The fees are
based on a contractual percentage of the outstanding principal, or a fixed amount per loan and are recorded as income when earned. The amortization of mortgage servicing rights is netted against loan
servicing fee income. Servicing fees totaled $2,104, $1,890 and $1,521 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Late fees and ancillary fees related to loan servicing are not
material. 
        Transfers of Financial Assets: Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when control over the assets has been surrendered. Control
over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when the assets have been isolated from the Company, the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of
that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets, and the Company does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets through an agreement or option to repurchase them before their
maturity. 
         Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets: Goodwill resulting from business combinations prior to January 1, 2009 represents the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of acquired tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill resulting from business combinations after January 1, 2009, is
generally determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets
acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not
amortized, but tested for impairment at least annually. The Company has selected June 30 of each year as the date to perform its impairment review. Intangible assets with definite useful lives
are amortized over their estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values. Goodwill is the only intangible asset with an indefinite life on the Company's balance sheet. 
        Other
intangible assets consist largely of core deposit and acquired customer relationship intangibles arising from whole bank and branch acquisitions. They are initially measured at
fair value and then are amortized on an accelerated method over their estimated useful lives, generally ten years. 
         Loan Commitments and Related Financial Instruments: Financial instruments include off-balance sheet credit instruments, such as
commitments to make loans and commercial letters of credit, issued to meet customer financing needs. The face amount for these items represents the exposure to loss, before considering customer
collateral or ability to repay. Such financial instruments are recorded when they are funded. 
        Long-term Assets: Premises and equipment and other long-term assets are reviewed for impairment when events indicate their
carrying amount may not be recoverable from future undiscounted cash flows. If impaired, the assets are recorded at fair value. 
         Mortgage Banking Derivatives: Commitments to fund mortgage loans (interest rate locks) to be sold into the secondary market and forward commitments
for the future delivery of these mortgage loans are accounted for as free standing derivatives. Fair values of these mortgage derivatives are estimated based on changes in mortgage interest rates from
the date the interest rate on the loan is locked. The Company enters into forward commitments for the future delivery of mortgage loans when interest rate locks are entered into, in order to hedge the
change in interest rates resulting from its commitments to fund the loans. Any changes are recorded in mortgage banking on the income statement. 
         Income Taxes: Income tax expense is the total of the current year income tax due or refundable and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities, computed using enacted tax
rates. A valuation allowance, if needed, reduces deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. 
        A
tax position is recognized as a benefit only if it is "more likely than not" that the tax position would be sustained in a tax examination, with a tax examination being presumed to
occur. The amount recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized on examination. For tax positions not meeting the "more likely than not" test, no
tax benefit is recorded. 
        The
Company recognizes interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. 
         Stock-Based Compensation: Compensation cost is recognized for stock options and restricted stock awards issued to employees, based on the fair value
of these awards at the date of grant. A Black-Scholes model is utilized to estimate the fair value of stock options. Compensation cost is recognized over the required service period, generally defined
as the vesting period. For awards with graded vesting, compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award. 
         Retirement Plans: Employee 401(k) and profit sharing plan expense is the amount of matching contributions and discretionary contributions,
respectively. 
42



 
Table of Contents
         Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share: Basic earnings (loss) per common share is net income available to common shareholders divided by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per common share include the dilutive effect of additional potential common shares issuable under stock options.
Earnings and dividends per share are restated for all stock splits and dividends through the date of issuance of the financial statements. 
         Comprehensive Income (Loss): Comprehensive income (loss) consists of net income (loss) and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income
includes unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale which are also recognized as a separate component of equity. 
         Loss Contingencies: Loss contingencies, including claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business, are recorded as liabilities
when the likelihood of loss is probable and an amount or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. Management does not believe there are now any such matters that will have a material effect on the
financial statements. 
         Restrictions on Cash: Cash on hand or on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank was required to meet regulatory reserve and clearing requirements.

         Equity: Stock dividends in excess of 20% are reported by transferring the par value of the stock issued from retained earnings to common stock. Stock
dividends for 20% or less are reported by transferring the fair value, as of the ex-dividend date, of the stock issued from retained earnings to common stock and additional
paid-in capital. Fractional share amounts are paid in cash with a reduction in retained earnings. Treasury stock is carried at cost. 
         Dividend Restriction: Banking regulations require maintaining certain capital levels and may limit the dividends paid by the banks to the holding
company or by the holding company to shareholders. 
         Fair Value of Financial Instruments: Fair values of financial instruments are estimated using relevant market information and
other assumptions, as more fully disclosed in a Note 7. Fair value estimates involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment regarding interest rates, credit risk, prepayments, and
other factors, especially in the absence of broad markets for particular items. Changes in assumptions or in market conditions could significantly affect the estimates. 
         Operating Segments: While the Company's chief decision makers monitor the revenue streams of the various Company products and services, the
identifiable segments are not material and operations are managed and financial performance is evaluated on a Company-wide basis. Accordingly, all of the Company's financial service
operations are considered by management to be aggregated in one reportable operating segment. 
        Reclassifications: Some items in the prior year financial statements were reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Reclassifications had
no affect on prior year net income or shareholders' equity. 

 Adoption of New Accounting and Newly Issued but Not Yet Effective Standards:  

        In April 2011, the FASB amended existing guidance for assisting a creditor in determining whether a restructuring is a troubled debt
restructuring. The amendments clarify the guidance for a creditor's evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The guidance also
precludes a creditor from using the effective interest rate test in the debtor's guidance on restructuring of payables when evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt
restructuring. For public companies, this guidance was effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively to the beginning
of the annual period of adoption. For purposes of measuring impairment on newly identified troubled debt restructurings, the amendments should be applied prospectively for the first interim or annual
period beginning on or after June 15, 2011. Early adoption was permitted. Additionally, disclosures about troubled debt restructurings that had previously been delayed by the FASB are now
required as of the effective date of this guidance. As a result of adopting these amendments, the Company reassessed all restructurings that occurred on or after the beginning of the current fiscal
year (January 1, 2011) for identification as troubled debt restructurings. The result of this reassessment did not identify any material loans that should have been identified as a troubled
debt restructuring in prior periods that had not already been identified. The Company identified as troubled debt restructurings certain loans for which the allowance for loan losses had previously
been measured under a general allowance for loan losses methodology. Upon identifying those loans as troubled debt restructurings, the Company identified them as impaired under current accounting
guidance. The amendments require prospective application of the impairment measurement guidance for those loans newly identified as impaired. At the end of the first interim period of adoption
(September 30, 2011), the recorded investment in loans for which the allowance for credit losses was previously measured under a general allowance for credit losses methodology and are now
individually evaluated as impaired loans and the allowance for credit losses associated with those receivables was a minimal amount. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB amended existing guidance and eliminated the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholder's
equity. The amendment requires that comprehensive income be presented in either a single continuous statement or in two separate consecutive statements. The amendments in this guidance are effective
as of the beginning of a fiscal reporting year, and interim periods within that year, that begins after December 15, 2011. The adoption of 
43



 
Table of Contents
this
amendment will change the presentation of the components of comprehensive income for the Company as part of the consolidated statement of shareholder's equity. 
        In
September 2011, the FASB issued updated guidance on Testing Goodwill for Impairment. In applying the updated guidance, the entity has the option to first assess qualitative factors to
determine whether the existence of events or circumstances lead to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after
assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the
two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if the entity determines that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than the carrying amount the entity will then be required to
perform the first of the two step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying
amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, then the entity is required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount or the impairment loss, if any. An
entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test.
An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. The updated guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 2011. The Company has determined that it will have the resources necessary to perform the required analysis. 
 NOTE 2 — ACQUISITION  
        On May 2, 2009, the Company completed an acquisition of three branches from American Founders Bank ("AFB"). Two branches were
located in Frankfort, Kentucky and the third in Lawrenceburg, Kentucky. Concurrent with this purchase, the Company sold one of its branches in Louisville, Kentucky, to AFB. Pursuant to the terms of
the purchase agreement, AFB paid the Company approximately $18,400 in cash. The Company expensed approximately $78 of direct acquisition costs and recorded goodwill of $6,002 and $222 of core deposit
intangible assets. The core deposit intangible is being amortized on an accelerated basis over 10 years. On the date of acquisition, the Company assumed net deposit liabilities valued at
approximately $88,000, acquired a net portfolio of loans valued at approximately $61,000, and premises and equipment valued at $3,000. All loans acquired were performing loans and none were considered
to be purchased with credit impairment. 
        As
a result of this acquisition, the Company has expanded its geographical presence in the state of Kentucky. The Company believes that the acquisition will allow it to increase its
customer base to enhance deposit fee income and market additional products and services to new customers. 
 NOTE 3 — RESTRICTION ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS  
        The Bank is required to maintain reserve funds in cash or on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank. The reserves required at
December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $7,474 and $7,244. The Company had no compensating balance requirements at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
44



 
Table of Contents
 NOTE 4 — SECURITIES  
        The fair value of securities available for sale and related gross unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other
comprehensive income was as follows: 






















 
 
Amortized
Cost
 
Gross
Unrealized
Gains
 
Gross
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair
Value
 


 
 


 As of December 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available for Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 State and municipal
 
$
320,269
 
$
24,723
 
$
(115
)
$
344,877
 


 Mortgage-backed securities-residential (Government Sponsored Entity)
 
 
264,619
 
 
7,074
 
 
(189
)
 
271,504
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations (Government Sponsored Entity)
 
 
246,985
 
 
3,807
 
 
(25
)
 
250,767
 


 Equity securities
 
 
5,410
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5,410
 


 Other securities
 
 
3,589
 
 
—
 
 
(57
)
 
3,532
 


 
 
 
 


 Total available for sale
 
$
840,872
 
$
35,604
 
$
(386
)
$
876,090
 


 
 
 
 


 As of December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Available for Sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 State and municipal
 
$
294,706
 
$
7,193
 
$
(1,755
)
$
300,144
 


 Mortgage-backed securities-residential (Government Sponsored Entity)
 
 
304,347
 
 
9,513
 
 
(1,029
)
 
312,831
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations (Government Sponsored Entity)
 
 
184,549
 
 
3,129
 
 
(1,681
)
 
185,997
 


 Equity securities
 
 
4,405
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,405
 


 Other securities
 
 
3,514
 
 
—
 
 
(820
)
 
2,694
 


 
 
 
 


 Total available for sale
 
$
791,521
 
$
19,835
 
$
(5,285
)
$
806,071
 


 
 
 
 




        Contractual
maturities of securities at December 31, 2011 were as follows. Securities not due at a single maturity or with no maturity at year end are shown separately. 
















 
 
 
 
Available
for Sale



 


 
 
Amortized Cost
 


 
 
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Within one year
 
$
3,360
 
$
3,415
 


 One through five years
 
 
51,737
 
 
54,088
 


 Six through ten years
 
 
90,425
 
 
97,337
 


 After ten years
 
 
178,336
 
 
193,569
 


 Mortgage-backed securities-residential (Government Sponsored Entity)
 
 
264,619
 
 
271,504
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations
 
 
246,985
 
 
250,767
 


 Equity securities
 
 
5,410
 
 
5,410
 


 
 
 
 


 Total available for sale securities
 
$
840,872
 
$
876,090
 


 
 
 
 




        Gross
proceeds from sales of securities available for sale during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $366,559, $111,564, and $93,855. Gross gains of $11,440, $3,018 and $1,518 and gross losses of
$83, $39, and $255 were realized on those sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The tax provision related to these net realized gains was $3,861, $1,049, and $495 respectively. 
        Securities
with a carrying value of $206,639 and $307,597 were pledged at December 31, 2011 and 2010 to secure certain deposits and repurchase agreements, secure future funding
needs, and for other purposes as permitted or required by law. 
        At
year end 2011 and 2010, there were no holdings of securities of any one issuer, other than the U.S. Government and its sponsored entities, in an amount greater than 10% of
shareholders' equity. 
45




 










Table of Contents 
        Below is a summary of securities with unrealized losses as of year-end 2011 and 2010 presented by length of time the securities have been in a
continuous unrealized loss position. 




























2011
 
Less than 12 months
 
12 months or longer
 
Total
 


 
 
 
 


Description of securities
 
Fair Value
 
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair Value
 
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair Value
 
Unrealized
Losses
 


 
 


 State and municipal
 
 $
1,576
 
 $
(72
)
 $
237
 
 $
(43
)
 $
1,813
 
 $
(115
)


 Mortgage-backed securities-residential (GSE's)
 
 
 50,493
 
 
 (189
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 50,493
 
 
 (189
)


 Collateralized mortgage obligations (GSE's)
 
 
 25,527
 
 
 (25
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 25,527
 
 
 (25
)


 Other securities
 
 
 945
 
 
 (57
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 945
 
 
 (57
)


 
 
 
 


 Total temporarily impaired
 
 $
78,541
 
 $
(343
)
 $
237
 
 $
(43
)
 $
78,778
 
 $
(386
)


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


2010
 
Less than 12 months
 
12 months or longer
 
Total
 


 
 
 
 


Description of securities
 
Fair Value
 
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair Value
 
Unrealized
Losses
 
Fair Value
 
Unrealized
Losses
 


 
 


 State and municipal
 
 $
69,009
 
 $
(1,664
)
 $
406
 
 $
(91
)
 $
69,415
 
 $
(1,755
)


 Mortgage-backed securities-residential (GSE's)
 
 
 42,926
 
 
 (1,029
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 42,926
 
 
 (1,029
)


 Collateralized mortgage obligations (GSE's)
 
 
 70,656
 
 
 (1,681
)
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 70,656
 
 
 (1,681
)


 Other securities
 
 
 1,010
 
 
 (2
)
 
 1,684
 
 
 (818
)
 
 2,694
 
 
 (820
)


 
 
 
 


 Total temporarily impaired
 
 $
183,601
 
 $
(4,376
)
 $
2,090
 
 $
(909
)
 $
185,691
 
 $
(5,285
)


 
 
 
 




 Other-Than-Temporary-Impairment  
        Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment ("OTTI") at least on a quarterly basis, and
more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation. The investment securities portfolio is evaluated for OTTI by segregating the portfolio into two general segments and
applying the appropriate OTTI model. Investment securities are generally evaluated for OTTI under ASC 320. However, certain purchased beneficial interests, including non-agency
mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities, and collateralized debt obligations, that had credit ratings at the time of purchase of below AA are evaluated using the model outlined in
ASC 325-10 (formerly EITF Issue No. 99-20, Recognition of Interest Income and Impairment on Purchased Beneficial Interests and
Beneficial Interests that Continue to be Held by a Transfer in Securitized Financial Assets). The Company holds no securities that fall within the scope of
ASC 325-10. 
        In
determining OTTI under ASC 320, management considers many factors, including: (1) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost,
(2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, (3) whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions, and (4) whether the entity
has the intent to sell the debt security or more likely than not will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. The assessment of whether an
other-than-temporary decline exists involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and is based on the information available to management at a point in time. 
        When
OTTI occurs under either model, the amount of the OTTI recognized in earnings depends on whether the Company intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not it will be
required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, less any current period credit loss. If an entity intends to sell or it is more likely than not it will be required to sell
the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, less any current period credit loss, the OTTI shall be recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment's
amortized cost basis and its fair value at the balance sheet date. If an entity does not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell the
security before recovery of its amortized cost basis less any current period loss, the OTTI shall be separated into the amount representing the credit loss and the amount related to all other factors.
The amount of the total OTTI related to the credit loss is determined based on the present value of cash flows expected to be collected and is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total OTTI
related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. The previous amortized cost basis less the OTTI recognized in earnings becomes the new amortized cost
basis of the investment. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the Company's security portfolio consisted of 1,016 securities, 13 of which were in an unrealized loss position. Unrealized losses on state and municipal
securities have not been recognized into income because management has the ability to hold for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value and it is unlikely that
management will be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. The decline in value is primarily attributable to temporary illiquidity and the financial crisis affecting these
markets and not the expected cash flows of the individual securities. The fair value of these debt securities is expected to recover as the securities approach their maturity date. 
46



 
Table of Contents
        At
December 31, 2011, almost all of the mortgage-backed securities held by the Company were issued by U.S. government-sponsored entities and agencies, primarily Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac, institutions which the government has affirmed its commitment to support. Because the decline in fair value of approximately $0.2 million is attributable to changes in interest
rates and illiquidity, and not credit quality, and because the Company does not have the intent to sell these mortgage-backed securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the
securities before their anticipated recovery, the Company does not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011. 
        The
Company's collateralized mortgage obligation securities portfolio includes agency collateralized mortgage obligations with a market value of $250,767 which had unrealized losses of
approximately $25 at December 31, 2011. The Company monitors to insure it has adequate credit support and as of December 31, 2011, the Company believes there is no OTTI and does not have
the intent to sell these securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery. All securities are investment grade. 
        The
unrealized losses on other securities are related to one single issue trust preferred security and has not been recognized into income because management has the ability to hold for
a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery
in fair value and it is unlikely that management will be required to sell the security before its anticipated recovery. The Company performs a quarterly review of this security and based on this
review, no evidence of adverse changes in expected cash flows is anticipated. The decline in value is primarily attributable to temporary illiquidity and the financial crisis affecting these markets
and not the expected cash flows of the individual security. Currently, the issuer has made all contractual payments and given no indication that they will not be able to make them into the future. The
fair value of these debt securities is expected to recover as the securities approach their maturity date. As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned $945 of these securities with an unrealized
loss of $57. 
        During
2010, the Company determined that three of its equity holdings were other than temporarily impaired and wrote down the securities by $97 to their fair value of $136. During 2009,
the Company identified one of its equity holdings to be other than temporarily impaired and wrote down the security by $150 to its fair value ($0). These amounts were included in other income in 2010
and net realized gains/(losses) on securities in 2009. 
 NOTE 5 — LOANS AND ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES  
        Loans were as follows: 
















 
 
December 31,
2011
 
December 31,
2010
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
114,367
 
 $
138,291
 


 Agricultural
 
 
 20,741
 
 
 27,178
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
 46,308
 
 
 48,307
 


 Hotel
 
 
 146,358
 
 
 152,416
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 30,746
 
 
 59,319
 


 Other
 
 
 540,752
 
 
 589,192
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 family
 
 
 365,710
 
 
 380,987
 


 Home equity
 
 
 212,202
 
 
 213,607
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
 51,157
 
 
 59,139
 


 Indirect
 
 
 6,038
 
 
 12,535
 


 
 
 
 


 Total loans
 
 
 1,534,379
 
 
 1,680,971
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
 (39,889
)
 
 (42,605
)


 
 
 
 


 Net loans
 
 $
1,494,490
 
 $
1,638,366
 


 
 
 
 




47



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents the activity in the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment for the year ending December 31, 2011: 

























 
 
Commercial
 
Commercial
Real Estate
 
Residential
 
Consumer
 
Total
 


 
 


 Allowance for loan loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, January 1, 2011
 
$
6,386
 
$
32,653
 
$
2,281
 
$
1,285
 
$
42,605
 


 Provision charged to expense
 
 
215
 
 
13,406
 
 
3,136
 
 
1,043
 
 
17,800
 


 Losses charged off
 
 
(2,211
)
 
(16,954
)
 
(3,093
)
 
(2,636
)
 
(24,894
)


 Recoveries
 
 
1,172
 
 
1,371
 
 
648
 
 
1,187
 
 
4,378
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31, 2011
 
$
5,562
 
$
30,476
 
$
2,972
 
$
879
 
$
39,889
 


 
 
 
 




        Activity
in the allowance for loan losses was as follows for the years ending December 31, 2010 and 2009: 
















 
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, January 1
 
 $
46,648
 
 $
34,583
 


 Provision for losses
 
 
 35,250
 
 
 46,310
 


 Recoveries on loans
 
 
 3,153
 
 
 1,957
 


 Loans charged off
 
 
 (42,446
)
 
 (36,202
)


 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31
 
 $
42,605
 
 $
46,648
 


 
 
 
 




        The
following table presents the balance in the allowance for loan losses and the recorded investment by portfolio segment and based on impairment method as of December 31, 2011
and 2010: 

























December 31, 2011
 
Commercial
 
Commercial
Real Estate
 
Residential
 
Consumer
 
Total
 


 
 


 Allowance for loan loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
1,193
 
$
5,476
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
6,669
 


 Ending Balance collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
4,369
 
 
25,000
 
 
2,972
 
 
879
 
 
33,220
 


 
 
 
 


 Total ending allowance balance
 
$
5,562
 
 
30,476
 
$
2,972
 
$
879
 
$
39,889
 


 
 
 
 


 Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
5,144
 
$
41,149
 
$
14,522
 
$
1,116
 
$
61,931
 


 Ending Balance collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
129,964
 
 
723,015
 
 
563,390
 
 
56,079
 
 
1,472,448
 


 
 
 
 


 Total ending loan balance excludes $5,835 of accrued interest
 
$
135,108
 
 
764,164
 
$
577,912
 
$
57,195
 
$
1,534,379
 


 
 
 
 




 

























December 31, 2010
 
Commercial
 
Commercial
Real Estate
 
Residential
 
Consumer
 
Total
 


 
 


 Allowance for loan loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
1,753
 
$
8,571
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
10,324
 


 Ending Balance collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
4,633
 
 
24,082
 
 
2,281
 
 
1,285
 
 
32,281
 


 
 
 
 


 Total ending allowance balance
 
$
6,386
 
 
32,653
 
$
2,281
 
$
1,285
 
$
42,605
 


 
 
 
 


 Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
8,223
 
 
64,048
 
$
16,801
 
$
1,504
 
$
90,576
 


 Ending Balance collectively evaluated for impairment
 
 
157,246
 
 
785,186
 
 
577,793
 
 
70,170
 
 
1,590,395
 


 
 
 
 


 Total ending loan balance excludes $6,779 of accrued interest
 
$
165,469
 
$
849,234
 
$
594,594
 
$
71,674
 
$
1,680,971
 


 
 
 
 




        Average
impaired loan information for 2010 and 2009 were as follows: 
















December 31
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Average balance of impaired loans during the year
 
 $
94,905
 
 $
84,387
 


 Interest income recognized on impaired loans
 
 
 108
 
 
 101
 


 Cash basis interest included above
 
 
 108
 
 
 101
 




48



 
Table of Contents
        Nonperforming
loans were as follows: 
















December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Loans past due 90 days or more still on accrual
 
 $
3,266
 
 $
990
 


 Troubled debt restructurings
 
 
 20,402
 
 
 22,250
 


 Non-accrual loans
 
 
 41,528
 
 
 68,236
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
65,196
 
 $
91,476
 


 
 
 
 




        Nonperforming
loans include both smaller balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and individually classified impaired loans. 
        The
following table presents loans individually evaluated for impairment by class of loans as of December 31, 2011: 




























December 31, 2011
 
Unpaid
Principal
Balance
 
Recorded
Investment
 
Allowance
for Loan
Losses
Allocated
 
Average
Recorded
Investment
 
Interest
Income
Recognized
 
Cash Basis
Interest
Recognized
 


 
 


 With an allowance recorded
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
3,130
 
$
3,057
 
$
1,193
 
$
4,174
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Agricultural
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
486
 
 
486
 
 
193
 
 
473
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hotel
 
 
5,385
 
 
5,385
 
 
100
 
 
6,952
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Construction and development
 
 
5,558
 
 
5,476
 
 
2,371
 
 
7,205
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other
 
 
14,400
 
 
14,322
 
 
2,812
 
 
16,460
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Indirect
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Subtotal — impaired with allowance recorded
 
$
28,959
 
$
28,726
 
$
6,669
 
$
35,277
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 With no related allowance recorded
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
2,720
 
$
2,030
 
$
—
 
$
2,264
 
$
22
 
$
22
 


 Agricultural
 
 
351
 
 
57
 
 
 
 
 
90
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
579
 
 
531
 
 
 
 
 
637
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hotel
 
 
876
 
 
384
 
 
 
 
 
319
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Construction and development
 
 
2,996
 
 
1,839
 
 
 
 
 
2,262
 
 
1
 
 
1
 


 Other
 
 
16,325
 
 
12,726
 
 
 
 
 
12,619
 
 
135
 
 
135
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
12,344
 
 
12,045
 
 
 
 
 
11,825
 
 
8
 
 
8
 


 Home Equity
 
 
2,548
 
 
2,477
 
 
 
 
 
1,974
 
 
8
 
 
8
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
1,096
 
 
1,083
 
 
 
 
 
1,143
 
 
9
 
 
9
 


 Indirect
 
 
35
 
 
33
 
 
 
 
 
58
 
 
5
 
 
5
 


 
 
 
 


 Subtotal — impaired with no allowance recorded
 
$
39,870
 
$
33,205
 
$
—
 
$
33,191
 
$
188
 
$
188
 


 
 
 
 


 Total impaired loans
 
$
68,829
 
$
61,931
 
$
6,669
 
$
68,468
 
$
188
 
$
188
 


 
 
 
 




49



 
Table of Contents




















December 31, 2010
 
Unpaid
Principal
Balance
 
Recorded
Investment
 
Allowance
for Loan
Losses Allocated
 


 
 


 With an allowance recorded
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
4,935
 
 $
4,902
 
 $
1,753
 


 Agricultural
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
 461
 
 
 465
 
 
 71
 


 Hotel
 
 
 13,178
 
 
 12,603
 
 
 1,151
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 41,924
 
 
 17,613
 
 
 3,110
 


 Other
 
 
 22,580
 
 
 20,458
 
 
 4,239
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Home Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Indirect
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Subtotal — impaired with allowance recorded
 
 $
83,078
 
 $
56,041
 
 $
10,324
 


 With no related allowance recorded
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
3,966
 
 $
3,191
 
 $
—
 


 Agricultural
 
 
 422
 
 
 130
 
 
 
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
 766
 
 
 735
 
 
 
 


 Hotel
 
 
 59
 
 
 60
 
 
 
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 1,677
 
 
 1,390
 
 
 
 


 Other
 
 
 14,120
 
 
 10,724
 
 
 
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
 15,171
 
 
 14,889
 
 
 
 


 Home Equity
 
 
 2,000
 
 
 1,912
 
 
 
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
 1,431
 
 
 1,430
 
 
 
 


 Indirect
 
 
 78
 
 
 74
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Subtotal — impaired with no allowance recorded
 
 $
39,690
 
 $
34,535
 
 $
—
 


 
 
 
 


 Total impaired loans
 
 $
122,768
 
 $
90,576
 
 $
10,324
 


 
 
 
 




50



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents the recorded investment in non-accrual and loans past due over 90 days still on accrual by class of loans as of December 31, 2011
and 2010: 






















 
 
Non-accrual
 
Past due over
90 days and
still accruing
 


 
 
 
 


December 31,
 
2011
 
2010
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
2,518
 
 $
4,587
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 Agricultural
 
 
 57
 
 
 130
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
 1,016
 
 
 736
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hotel
 
 
 384
 
 
 6,534
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 3,240
 
 
 19,004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other
 
 
 21,060
 
 
 24,530
 
 
 3,259
 
 
 41
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
 10,873
 
 
 10,694
 
 
 
 
 
 850
 


 Home Equity
 
 
 2,105
 
 
 1,686
 
 
 
 
 
 85
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
 242
 
 
 261
 
 
 7
 
 
 14
 


 Indirect
 
 
 33
 
 
 74
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
41,528
 
 $
68,236
 
 $
3,266
 
 $
990
 


 
 
 
 




        The
following table presents the aging of the recorded investment in past due loans as of December 31, 2011 by class of loans: 




























December 31, 2011
 
Total
Loans
 
30-59 Days
Past Due
 
60-89 Days
Past Due
 
Greater than
90 Days
Past Due
 
Total
Past Due
 
Loans Not
Past Due
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 $
114,367
 
 $
1,139
 
 $
655
 
 $
1,831
 
 $
3,625
 
 $
110,742
 


 Agricultural
 
 
 20,741
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 57
 
 
 57
 
 
 20,684
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
 46,308
 
 
 
 
 
 58
 
 
 905
 
 
 963
 
 
 45,345
 


 Hotel
 
 
 146,358
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 384
 
 
 384
 
 
 145,974
 


 Construction and development
 
 
 30,746
 
 
 61
 
 
 
 
 
 3,179
 
 
 3,240
 
 
 27,506
 


 Other
 
 
 540,752
 
 
 4,249
 
 
 3,576
 
 
 16,529
 
 
 24,354
 
 
 516,398
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
 365,710
 
 
 9,327
 
 
 2,233
 
 
 7,182
 
 
 18,742
 
 
 346,968
 


 Home Equity
 
 
 212,202
 
 
 1,417
 
 
 500
 
 
 1,491
 
 
 3,408
 
 
 208,794
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
 51,157
 
 
 382
 
 
 146
 
 
 129
 
 
 657
 
 
 50,500
 


 Indirect
 
 
 6,038
 
 
 87
 
 
 24
 
 
 16
 
 
 127
 
 
 5,911
 


 
 
 
 


 Total — excludes $5,835 of accrued interest
 
 $
1,534,379
 
 $
16,662
 
 $
7,192
 
 $
31,703
 
 $
55,557
 
 $
1,478,822
 


 
 
 
 




51



 
Table of Contents





























December 31, 2010
 
Total
Loans
 
30-59 Days
Past Due
 
60-89 Days
Past Due
 
Greater than
90 Days
Past Due
 
Total
Past Due
 
Loans Not
Past Due
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
138,291
 
$
1,202
 
$
233
 
$
3,151
 
$
4,586
 
$
133,705
 


 Agricultural
 
 
27,178
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
130
 
 
130
 
 
27,048
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
48,307
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
528
 
 
528
 
 
47,779
 


 Hotel
 
 
152,416
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
512
 
 
512
 
 
151,904
 


 Construction and development
 
 
59,319
 
 
 
 
 
728
 
 
18,276
 
 
19,004
 
 
40,315
 


 Other
 
 
589,192
 
 
4,237
 
 
2,678
 
 
17,646
 
 
24,561
 
 
564,631
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
380,987
 
 
7,101
 
 
2,633
 
 
8,013
 
 
17,747
 
 
363,240
 


 Home Equity
 
 
213,607
 
 
642
 
 
261
 
 
1,375
 
 
2,278
 
 
211,329
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
59,139
 
 
508
 
 
153
 
 
138
 
 
799
 
 
58,340
 


 Indirect
 
 
12,535
 
 
114
 
 
6
 
 
36
 
 
156
 
 
12,379
 


 
 
 
 


 Total — excludes $6,779 of accrued interest
 
$
1,680,971
 
$
13,804
 
$
6,692
 
$
49,805
 
$
70,301
 
$
1,610,670
 


 
 
 
 





 Troubled Debt Restructurings  

        During the year ending December 31, 2011, the terms of certain loans were modified as troubled debt restructurings. The
modification of the terms of such loans included one or a combination of the following: a reduction of the stated interest rate of the loan or an extension of the maturity date at a stated rate of
interest lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk. 
        Modifications
involving a reduction of the stated interest rate of the loan were for periods ranging from 60 months to 30 years. Modifications involving an extension of the
maturity date were for periods ranging from 6 months to 14 months. 
        The
following table presents loans by class modified as troubled debt restructurings that occurred during the year ending December 31, 2011: 



















 
 
Number of Loans
 
Pre-Modification
Outstanding Recorded
Investment
 
Post-Modification
Outstanding Recorded
Investment
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 
3
 
$
248
 
$
248
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Construction and development
 
 
3
 
 
4,287
 
 
4,287
 


 Hotel
 
 
1
 
 
5,922
 
 
5,498
 


 Other
 
 
15
 
 
8,783
 
 
6,619
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
8
 
 
632
 
 
632
 


 Home Equity
 
 
45
 
 
855
 
 
855
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
6
 
 
47
 
 
47
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
81
 
$
20,774
 
$
18,186
 


 
 
 
 




        The
troubled debt restructurings described above increased the allowance for loan losses by $30 and resulted in charge offs of $3,062 during the year ending December 31, 2011. 
52



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table presents loans by class modified as troubled debt restructurings for which there was a payment default within twelve months following the modification during the year
ending December 31, 2011: 
















 
 
Number of Loans
 
Recorded Investment
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
 
4
 
$
926
 


 Commercial real estate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
2
 
 
532
 


 Development
 
 
1
 
 
150
 


 Other
 
 
7
 
 
910
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
 
6
 
 
521
 


 Home Equity
 
 
5
 
 
93
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
25
 
$
3,132
 


 
 
 
 




        A
loan is considered to be in payment default once it is 90 days contractually past due under the modified terms. 
        In
order to determine whether a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, an evaluation is performed of the probability that the borrower will be in payment default on any of its
debt in the foreseeable future without the modification. This evaluation is performed under the company's internal underwriting policy. 
        The
Company has allocated $3,013 of specific reserves to customers whose loan terms have been modified in troubled debt restructurings as of December 31, 2011. The Company has
committed to lend additional amounts totaling $0 to customers with outstanding loans that are classified as troubled debt restructurings. At December 31, 2010, the comparable numbers were
$2,599 of specific reserves and $517 of commitments. 
        The
terms of certain other loans were modified during year ending December 31, 2011 that did not meet the definition of a troubled debt restructuring. These loans have a total
recorded investment as of December 31, 2011 of $5,429. The modification of these loans involved either a modification of the terms of a loan to borrowers who were not experiencing financial
difficulties or a delay in a payment that was considered to be insignificant. 

 Credit Quality Indicators: 

        The
Company categorizes loans into risk categories based on relevant information about the ability of the borrower to service their debt such as: current
financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and current economic trends, among other factors. The Company analyzes commercial and commercial real
estate loans individually by classifying the loans as to credit risk. This analysis includes credit relationships with an outstanding balance greater than $1 million on an annual basis. The
Company uses the following definitions for risk ratings: 
        Special
Mention — Loans classified as special mention have above average risk that requires management's ongoing attention. The borrower may demonstrated inability to
generate profits or to maintain net worth, chronic delinquency and /or a demonstrated lack of willingness or capacity to meet obligations. 
        Substandard —
Loans classified as substandard are inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if
any. Loans so classified have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are classified by the distinct possibility that the institution will
sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. 
        Non-accrual —
Loans classified as non-accrual are loans where the further accrual of interest is stopped because payment in full of principal
and interest is not expected. In most cases, the principal and interest has been in default for a period of 90 days or more. 
53



 
Table of Contents
        As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and based on the most recent analysis performed, the risk category of loans by class of loans is as follows: 






















December 31, 2011
 
Pass
 
Special
Mention
 
Substandard
 
Non-accrual
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
93,380
 
$
11,935
 
$
6,534
 
$
2,518
 


 Agricultural
 
 
20,150
 
 
524
 
 
10
 
 
57
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
42,847
 
 
2,151
 
 
294
 
 
1,016
 


 Hotel
 
 
77,259
 
 
51,900
 
 
16,815
 
 
384
 


 Construction and development
 
 
15,498
 
 
3,212
 
 
8,796
 
 
3,240
 


 Other
 
 
422,385
 
 
66,377
 
 
30,930
 
 
21,060
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
671,519
 
$
136,099
 
$
63,379
 
$
28,275
 


 
 
 
 




 






















December 31, 2010
 
Pass
 
Special
Mention
 
Substandard
 
Non-accrual
 


 
 


 Commercial
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
113,349
 
$
14,019
 
$
6,336
 
$
4,587
 


 Agricultural
 
 
25,113
 
 
1,766
 
 
169
 
 
130
 


 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Farm
 
 
38,206
 
 
7,590
 
 
1,775
 
 
736
 


 Hotel
 
 
86,884
 
 
55,666
 
 
3,332
 
 
6,534
 


 Construction and development
 
 
16,083
 
 
10,697
 
 
13,535
 
 
19,004
 


 Other
 
 
479,863
 
 
45,491
 
 
39,308
 
 
24,530
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
759,498
 
$
135,229
 
$
64,455
 
$
55,521
 


 
 
 
 




        Beginning
in late 2011, loans not meeting the criteria above that are analyzed individually as part of the above described process are classified by delinquency. These loans are
primarily residential mortgage and consumer loans. All consumer loans fully or partially secured by 1-4 residential real estate that are 60-89 days will be classified as
Watch. If loans are greater than 90 days past due, they will be classified as Substandard. Consumer loans not secured by 1-4 family residential real estate that are
60-119 days past due will be classified Substandard while loans greater than 119 days will be classified as Loss. As of December 31, 2011, the performing/non
performing loans by category of loans is as follows: 



















December 31, 2011
 
Performing
 
Watch
 
Substandard
 


 
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
$
356,295
 
$
2,233
 
$
7,182
 


 Home Equity
 
 
210,211
 
 
500
 
 
1,491
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
566,506
 
$
2,733
 
$
8,673
 


 
 
 
 




 



















December 31, 2011
 
Performing
 
Substandard
 
Loss
 


 
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
$
50,882
 
$
201
 
$
74
 


 Indirect
 
 
5,998
 
 
25
 
 
15
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
56,880
 
$
226
 
$
89
 


 
 
 
 




54




 










Table of Contents 
        For residential and consurmer loans in 2010, performing loans are loans risk graded 1-4 and under performing loans are loans risk graded 5, 6, or 9.
As of December 31, 2010, the performing/under performing loans by category of loans is as follows: 
















December 31, 2010
 
Performing
 
Under
performing
 


 
 


 Residential
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 1-4 Family
 
$
351,181
 
$
29,806
 


 Home Equity
 
 
207,833
 
 
5,774
 


 Consumer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct
 
 
57,240
 
 
1,899
 


 Indirect
 
 
12,248
 
 
287
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
628,502
 
$
37,766
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 6 — OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED  
        Activity in the real estate owned assets, which are included in interest receivable and other assets in the consolidated balance
sheets, was as follows: 



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Beginning Balance
 
$
11,453
 
$
10,363
 
$
5,814
 


 Transfer to other real estate owned
 
 
23,093
 
 
11,115
 
 
11,915
 


 Sale — Out of other real estate owned
 
 
(16,125
)
 
(9,246
)
 
(6,766
)


 Write-down
 
 
(2,965
)
 
(779
)
 
(600
)


 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance
 
$
15,456
 
$
11,453
 
$
10,363
 


 
 
 
 




        The
value of the sale amount above is the carrying value of the property when it was sold. 
        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the balance in the valuation account was $4,003and $1,982 respectively. 
        Expenses
related to foreclosed assets include: 



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Write-downs
 
$
2,965
 
$
779
 
$
600
 


 Losses/(gains)on sales
 
 
(221
)
 
318
 
 
(800
)


 
 
 
 


 Net loss/(gain)
 
$
2,744
 
$
1,097
 
$
(200
)


 
 
 
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
1,152
 
 
674
 
 
681
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 7 — FAIR VALUE  
        Fair value is the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (exit price) in the principal or
most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. There are three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair
values: 
        Level 1:
Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the entity has the ability to access as of the measurement date. 
        Level 2:
Significant other observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not
active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. 
        Level 3:
Significant unobservable inputs that reflect a reporting entity's own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or
liability. 
        The
Company used the following methods and significant assumptions to estimate the fair values: 
        The
fair values of securities available for sale are determined by obtaining quoted prices on nationally recognized securities exchanges (Level 1 inputs) or using market data
utilizing pricing models, primarily Interactive Data Corporation (IDC), that vary based upon asset class and include available trade, bid, and other market information. Matrix pricing is used for most
municipals, which is a mathematical technique widely used in the industry to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities but rather by relying on the
securities' relationship to other benchmark quoted securities. The grouping of securities is done according to insurer, credit support, state of issuance, and rating to incorporate additional spreads
and municipal 
55



 
Table of Contents
curves.
For the general market municipals, the Thomson Municipal Market Data curve is used to determine the initial curve for determining the price, movement, and yield relationships with the
municipal market (Level 2 inputs). Level 3 securities are largely comprised of small, local municipality issuances, single issuer trust preferred securities and certain equity securities
for which there are no active trades. Fair values are derived through consideration of funding type, maturity and other features of the issuance, and include reviewing financial statements, earnings
forecasts, industry trends and the valuation of comparative issuers. 
        The
fair value of servicing rights is based on a valuation model that incorporates assumptions that market participants would use in estimating future net servicing income, such as the
cost to service, the discount rate, the custodial earnings rate, an
inflation rate, ancillary income, prepayment speeds and default rates and losses. The Company compares the valuation model inputs and results to published industry data in order to validate the model
results and assumptions. (Level 2 inputs). 
        The
fair value of impaired loans with specific allocations of the allowance for loan losses is generally based on recent real estate appraisals. These appraisals may utilize a single
valuation approach or a combination of approaches including comparable sales and the income approach. Adjustments are routinely made in the appraisal process by the appraisers to adjust for
differences between the comparable sales and income data available. Such adjustments are typically significant and result in a Level 3 classification of the inputs for determining fair value. 
        The
fair value of other real estate owned is measured based on the value of the collateral securing those assets and is determined using several methods. The fair value of real estate is
generally determined based on appraisals by qualified licensed appraisers. The appraisers typically determine the value of the real estate by utilizing an income or market valuation approach. If an
appraisal is not available, the fair value may be determined by using a cash flow analysis (Level 3 inputs). 
Assets
and Liabilities Measured on a Recurring Basis 
        Assets
and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, including financial assets and liabilities for which the Company has elected the fair value
option, are summarized below: 



















 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011 Using: 
 


(Dollars in thousands)
 
Carrying
Value
 
Quoted Prices in
Active Markets for
Identical Assets
(Level 1)
 
Significant
Other Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)
 
Significant
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
 


 
 


 Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment securities available-for-sale States and municipal
 
$
344,877
 
 
 
 
$
321,321
 
$
23,556
 


 Mortgage-backed securities — residential — Government Sponsored Entity
 
 
271,504
 
 
 
 
 
271,504
 
 
 
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations — Government Sponsored Entity
 
 
250,767
 
 
 
 
 
250,767
 
 
 
 


 Equity securities
 
 
5,410
 
 
4,660
 
 
 
 
 
750
 


 Other securities
 
 
3,532
 
 
 
 
 
945
 
 
2,587
 


 
 
 
 


 Total investment securities available-for-sale
 
$
876,090
 
$
4,660
 
$
844,537
 
$
26,893
 


 
 
 
 



56



 
Table of Contents
 



















 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010 Using 
 


 
 
Carrying
Value
 
Quoted Prices in
Active Markets for
Identical Assets
(Level 1)
 
Significant
Other Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)
 
Significant
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
 


 
 


 Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investment securities available-for-sale
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 States and municipal
 
$
300,144
 
 
 
 
$
300,144
 
 
 
 


 Mortgage-backed securities — Residential — Government Sponsored Entity
 
 
312,831
 
 
 
 
 
312,831
 
 
 
 


 Collateralized mortgage obligations — Government Sponsored Entity
 
 
185,997
 
 
 
 
 
185,997
 
 
 
 


 Equity securities
 
 
4,405
 
 
3,655
 
 
 
 
 
750
 


 Other securities
 
 
2,694
 
 
 
 
 
824
 
 
1,870
 


 
 
 
 


 Total investment securities available-for-sale
 
$
806,071
 
$
3,655
 
$
799,796
 
$
2,620
 


 
 
 
 



        There
have been no transfers between Level 1 and 2 during the two years ending December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
        The
tables below presents a reconciliation and income statement classification of gains and losses for all assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant
unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
















States and municipal
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Beginning balance, January 1
 
$
—
 
$
930
 


 Total gains or losses (realized / unrealized)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Included in earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other changes in fair value
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Gains (losses) on sales of securities
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Purchases
 
 
1,975
 
 
—
 


 Issuances
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Settlements
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Transfers in and / or out of Level 3
 
 
21,581
 
 
(930
)


 
 
 
 


 Ending balance, December 31
 
$
23,556
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 




 
















Equity securities
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Beginning balance, January 1
 
$
750
 
$
750
 


 Total gains or losses (realized / unrealized)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Included in earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other changes in fair value
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Gains (losses) on securities
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Purchases
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Issuances
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Settlements
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Transfers in and / or out of Level 3
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 


 Ending balance, December 31
 
$
750
 
$
750
 


 
 
 
 




57



 
Table of Contents

















Other securities
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Beginning balance, January 1
 
$
1,870
 
$
1,540
 


 Total gains or losses (realized / unrealized)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Included in earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other changes in fair value
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Gains (losses) on securities
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Included in other comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
330
 


 Purchases
 
 
2,587
 
 
—
 


 Issuances
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Settlements
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Transfers in and / or out of Level 3
 
 
(1,870
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 


 Ending balance, December 31
 
$
2,587
 
$
1,870
 


 
 
 
 




        Transfers
out of Level 3 are primarily due to the availability of Level 2 data. During the middle of 2011, the Company's pricing service no longer priced some municipal
securities due to the illiquidity of those securities. These investments are carried at fair value, which approximate book value and classified as Level 3. These securities are monitored by the
Company to insure no impairment exists and the issuers are current as to repayment of interest and principal. The Company has no intent or need of selling these investments before maturity.
Accordingly, the Company believes the fair value of these securities equals book value at December 31, 2011. 
Assets
and Liabilities Measured on a Non-Recurring Basis 
        Assets
and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis are summarized below: 






















 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011 Using: 
 


 
 
December 31, 2011
 
Quoted Prices in
Active Markets for
Identical Assets
(Level 1)
 
Significant
Other Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)
 
Significant
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
 


 
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Impaired loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
519
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
519
 


 Agricultural
 
 
43
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
43
 


 Farm
 
 
292
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
292
 


 Construction and development
 
 
763
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
763
 


 Other
 
 
6,125
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6,125
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total impaired loans
 
$
7,742
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
7,742
 


 Servicing rights
 
$
4,000
 
 
 
 
$
4,000
 
 
 
 


 Other real estate owned/assets held for sale
 
$
5,516
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
5,516
 




 






















 
 
 
 
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010 Using 
 


 
 
December 31, 2010
 
Quoted Prices in
Active Markets for
Identical Assets
(Level 1)
 
Significant
Other Observable
Inputs
(Level 2)
 
Significant
Unobservable
Inputs
(Level 3)
 


 
 


 Assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Impaired loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
1,735
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
1,735
 


 Hotel
 
 
5,827
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5,827
 


 Construction and development
 
 
14,504
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14,504
 


 Other
 
 
11,090
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11,090
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total impaired loans
 
$
33,156
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
33,156
 


 Servicing rights
 
$
1,548
 
 
 
 
$
1,548
 
 
 
 


 Other real estate owned/assets held for sale
 
$
3,085
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
3,085
 




58



 
Table of Contents
        The
following represent impairment charges recognized during the period: 
        Impaired
loans, which are measured for impairment using the fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans, had a gross carrying amount of $11,399, with a valuation
allowance of $3,657, resulting in an additional provision for loan losses of $2,928 in 2011. A breakdown on these loans by portfolio class is as follows: 



















 
 
Gross Balance
 
Valuation Allowance
 
Net
 


 
 


 Commercial and industrial
 
$
918
 
$
399
 
$
519
 


 Agricultural
 
 
43
 
 
—
 
 
43
 


 Farm
 
 
486
 
 
194
 
 
292
 


 Construction and development
 
 
1,401
 
 
638
 
 
763
 


 Other
 
 
8,551
 
 
2,426
 
 
6,125
 


 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance
 
$
11,399
 
$
3,657
 
$
7,742
 


 
 
 
 




        At
December 31, 2010, impaired loans had a gross carrying amount of $41,597, with a valuation allowance of $8,441, resulting in an additional provision for loan losses of $16,317
for the year ending December 31, 2010. 
        Impaired
tranches of servicing rights were carried at a fair value of $4,000, which is made up of the gross outstanding balance of $4,449, net of a valuation allowance of $449. A credit
of $45 was included in 2011 earnings. In 2010, impaired servicing rights were written down to a fair value of $1,548, resulting in a valuation allowance of $494. The gross outstanding balance was
$2,042, net of a valuation allowance of $494. A credit of $132 was included in 2010 earnings. 
        Other
real estate owned/assets held for sale is evaluated at the time a property is acquired through foreclosure or moved to held for sale or shortly thereafter. Fair value is based on
appraisals by qualified licensed appraisers. At December 31, 2011, the fair value is made up of the gross outstanding balance of $9,519, net a valuation allowance of $4,003. At
December 31, 2010, the fair value is made up of the gross outstanding balance of $5,067, net a valuation allowance of $1,982. During 2011, these properties were written down by $2,671 which was
included in 2011 earnings. During 2010, these properties were written down by $1,479 which was included in 2010 earnings. A breakdown of these properties by portfolio class at December 31, 2011
is as follows: 



















 
 
Gross Balance
 
Valuation Allowance
 
Net
 


 
 


 Construction and development
 
$
3,862
 
$
1,982
 
$
1,880
 


 Other commercial real estate
 
 
5,657
 
 
2,021
 
 
3,836
 


 
 
 
 


 Ending Balance
 
$
9,519
 
$
4,003
 
$
5,516
 


 
 
 
 




        Carrying
amount and estimated fair values of financial instruments, not previously presented, at year end were as follows: 






















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


December 31
 
Carrying
Amount
 
Fair Value
 
Carrying
Amount
 
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
109,148
 
$
109,148
 
$
60,123
 
$
60,123
 


 Loans including loans held for sale, net
 
 
1,503,368
 
 
1,507,310
 
 
1,611,055
 
 
1,595,748
 


 Restricted stock
 
 
15,856
 
 
N/A
 
 
19,502
 
 
N/A
 


 Interest receivable
 
 
10,814
 
 
10,814
 
 
11,552
 
 
11,552
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deposits
 
 
(2,159,900
)
 
(2,161,888
)
 
(2,211,564
)
 
(2,214,778
)


 Other borrowings
 
 
(25,789
)
 
(25,789
)
 
(33,181
)
 
(33,181
)


 FHLB advances
 
 
(151,427
)
 
(164,209
)
 
(152,065
)
 
(163,498
)


 Interest payable
 
 
(1,891
)
 
(1,891
)
 
(3,391
)
 
(3,391
)


 Subordinated debentures
 
 
(50,267
)
 
(26,645
)
 
(50,117
)
 
(26,565
)




        The
methods and assumptions, not previously presented, used to estimate fair value are described as follows. 
        Carrying
amount is the estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing time deposits, accrued interest receivable and payable, demand and all other transactional
deposits, short-term borrowings, variable rate notes payable, and variable rate loans or deposits that reprice frequently and fully. For fixed rate loans or deposits and for variable rate
loans or deposits with infrequent repricing or repricing limits, fair value is based on discounted cash flows using current market rates applied to the 
59



 
Table of Contents
estimated
life and credit risk. Fair value of loans held for sale is based on market quotes. Fair value of FHLB advances and subordinated debentures is based on current rates for similar financing. It
is not practicable to determine the fair value of FHLB stock due to restrictions placed on its transferability. The fair value of off-balance-sheet items is based on the current fees or
cost that would be charged to enter into or terminate such arrangements, and are not considered significant. 
 NOTE 8 — PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT  
















December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Land
 
 $
13,422
 
 $
12,250
 


 Buildings
 
 
 45,996
 
 
 44,578
 


 Furniture and equipment
 
 
 36,543
 
 
 32,661
 


 
 
 
 


 Total cost
 
 
 95,961
 
 
 89,489
 


 Accumulated depreciation
 
 
 (45,309
)
 
 (40,628
)


 
 
 
 


 Net
 
 $
50,652
 
 $
48,861
 


 
 
 
 




        Depreciation
expense was $5,074, $5,276, and $5,351 in 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
        Operating
Leases: The Company leases certain branch properties under operating leases. Rent expense was $933, $940, and $931 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. Rent commitments, before
considering renewal options that generally are present, were as follows: 













 2012
 
 $
951
 


 2013
 
 
 947
 


 2014
 
 
 852
 


 2015
 
 
 644
 


 2016
 
 
 261
 


 Thereafter
 
 
 362
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
4,017
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 9 — GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS  
 Goodwill  
        The change in carrying amount of goodwill is as follows. Accumulated impairment losses total $80,310. 
















 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Balance, January 1
 
 $
61,919
 
 $
62,909
 


 Disposed of goodwill
 
 
 —
 
 
 (990
)


 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31
 
 $
61,919
 
 $
61,919
 


 
 
 
 




        The
Company typically tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate there may be impairment. Impairment exists when a reporting
unit's carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value, which is determined through a two-step impairment test. Step 1 includes the determination of the carrying value of our reporting
units — banking and insurance, including the existing goodwill and intangible assets, and estimating the fair value of the reporting units. The Company determined the fair value of
its reporting units and compared it to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the Company is required to perform a second step to the impairment test.
Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the impairment loss. 
        Testing
performed during 2011 provided no indication of potential goodwill impairment. The Company engaged an independent, outside firm during the second and fourth quarters of 2009 to
help perform an impairment analysis due to the significant, sustained declines in the Company's market capitalization. The impact of deteriorating economic conditions had significantly impacted the
banking industry during 2008 and 2009 and had impacted the financial results of the Company. As a result, the Company concluded that goodwill resulting from the Company's banking acquisitions over the
past several years was impaired. There was no indication of impairment related to the insurance reporting unit during either the 2009 second or fourth quarter tests. During 2010, the insurance
business was sold, including the associated goodwill of $990. 
        In
2009, the Company utilized both the income and market approaches to determine fair value of the banking reporting unit under step 1 of the impairment analysis. The income approach was
based on discounted cash flows derived from assumptions of balance sheet and income statement activity. Bank management developed a financial forecast considering several long-term key 
60



 
Table of Contents
business
drivers such as anticipated loan and deposit growth. For the market approach, revenue, earnings and market capitalization multiples of comparable public companies were selected and applied to
the banking unit's applicable metrics such as book and tangible book values. Based on the results of the step 1 analyses, the Company concluded that the potential for goodwill impairment existed and
therefore a step 2 test was required to determine if there was goodwill impairment and the amount of goodwill that might be impaired. 
        Step
2 compared the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of the goodwill for the reporting unit. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in
the same manner as goodwill that is recognized in a business combination. Significant judgment and estimates are involved in estimating the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the reporting
unit. Significant valuation estimates were the assessment of core deposit intangibles, the mark-to-fair-value of outstanding debt and deposits, and
mark-to-fair-value on the loan portfolio. The following highlights some of the key assumptions used in the step 2 valuation as of the fourth quarter 2009. Core
deposits were valued using a 15.84% discount rate. The marks on our outstanding debt and deposits were based on modeled prices using current yield curves and market spreads. The valuation of the loan
portfolio indicated discounts in the ranges of 0%-25%, depending upon the loan type. Based on the results of goodwill impairment analyses performed by the Company in 2009, a $45,076
goodwill impairment charge was recorded in the second quarter and $35,234 was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2009. 
 Acquired Intangible Assets  
















 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Core deposit intangibles
 
 $
27,000
 
 $
27,000
 


 Other customer relationship intangibles
 
 
 698
 
 
 698
 


 Accumulated amortization
 
 
 (20,535
)
 
 (18,596
)


 
 
 
 


 Purchased intangibles, net
 
 $
7,163
 
 $
9,102
 


 
 
 
 




        Aggregate
amortization expense was $1,939, $2,066, and $2,199 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. 
        Estimated
amortization expense for each of the next five years follows: 













 2012
 
 $
1,789
 


 2013
 
 
 1,617
 


 2014
 
 
 1,425
 


 2015
 
 
 1,203
 


 2016
 
 
 534
 




 NOTE 10 — DEPOSITS  
















 
 
December 31, 2011
 
December 31, 2010
 


 
 


 Non-interest-bearing demand
 
 $
334,345
 
 $
268,390
 


 Interest-bearing demand
 
 
 816,512
 
 
 798,897
 


 Savings
 
 
 461,667
 
 
 430,367
 


 Certificates of deposit of $100 or more
 
 
 176,056
 
 
 231,019
 


 Other certificates and time deposits
 
 
 371,320
 
 
 482,891
 


 
 
 
 


 Total deposits
 
 $
2,159,900
 
 $
2,211,564
 


 
 
 
 




        Certificates
and other time deposits mature as follows: 













 2012
 
 $
336,069
 


 2013
 
 
 116,621
 


 2014
 
 
 72,763
 


 2015
 
 
 12,251
 


 2016
 
 
 1,713
 


 Thereafter
 
 
 7,959
 


 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 $
547,376
 


 
 
 
 




61




 










Table of Contents 
 NOTE 11 — SECURITIES SOLD UNDER AGREEMENT TO REPURCHASE  
        Securities sold under repurchase agreements ("agreements") consist of obligations secured by securities issued by government-sponsored
entities, and a safekeeping agent holds such collateral. The balance at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $25,789 and $33,181 respectively. The maximum amount of outstanding agreements at any
month-end during 2011, 2010, and 2009 totaled $40,960, $50,513, and $54,975. The daily average of such agreements during 2011, 2010, and 2009 totaled $30,404, $39,737, and $47,312. The
weighted average rate was 0.44%, 0.55%, and 0.68% at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 while the weighted average rate during 2011, 2010, and 2009 was approximately 0.52%, 0.64%, and 0.85%
respectively. The majority of the agreements at December 31, 2011 mature within 30 days. 
 NOTE 12 — FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ADVANCES  
        Federal Home Loan Bank ("FHLB") advances at year end were as follows: 
















 
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Maturities from May 2012 through May 2022, primarily fixed rates from 1.8% to 5.9%, averaging 3.7%
 
 $
151,427
 
 
 —
 


 Maturities from January 2011 through May 2022, primarily fixed rates from 2.5% to 5.9%, averaging 4.0%
 
 
 —
 
 $
152,065
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 $
151,427
 
 $
152,065
 


 
 
 
 




        The
majority of the FHLB advances are secured by first mortgage loans totaling approximately 155% of the advance under a blanket security agreement. The advances are subject to
restrictions or penalties in the event of prepayment. Of the $151,427 in advances at December 31, 2011, $120,000 or 79% of the advances contained options whereby the FHLB may convert the fixed
rate advance to an adjustable rate advance, at which time the Company may prepay the advance without a penalty. Of the $152,065 in advances at December 31, 2010, $124,000 or 82% of the advances
contained such options. 
        Required
payments over the next five years are: 













 2012
 
 $
20,591
 


 2013
 
 
 15,365
 


 2014
 
 
 25,268
 


 2015
 
 
 10,053
 


 2016
 
 
 15,063
 


 Thereafter
 
 
 65,087
 




 NOTE 13 — SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES  
        The Company formed four separate trusts in 2002, 2003, and 2006 that issued floating rate trust preferred securities as part of pooled
offerings. The Company issued subordinated debentures to the trusts in exchange for the proceeds of the offerings, which debentures represent the sole asset of the trusts. The Company acquired two
trusts from a prior acquisition — Harrodsburg Statutory Trust I and Independence Bancorp Statutory Trust I. In accordance with accounting guidelines, the trusts are
not consolidated with the Company's financial statements, but rather the subordinated debentures are shown as a liability, because the Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of the trusts.
The Company's investment in the common stock of the trust was $1,518 and is included in interest receivable and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Interest payments are payable quarterly
in arrears and the Company has the option to defer interest payments from time to time for a period not to exceed 20 consecutive quarters. The subordinated debentures mature in 30 years from
issuance and can be called anytime after five years at par. The subordinated debentures may be included in Tier 1 capital (with certain limitations) under current regulatory guidelines and
interpretations. The following table summarizes the other terms of each issuance. 



























Trust Name
 
Issuance
 
Amount
December 31,
2011
 
Amount
December 31,
2010
 
Variable
Rate
 
Rate as of
12/31/11
 
Maturity
 


 
 


 Trust 1
 
 
 2002
 
 $
8,248
 
 $
8,248
 
 LIBOR +3.25%
 
 
 3.82
%
 
 2032
 


 Trust 2
 
 
 2003
 
 
 14,433
 
 
 14,433
 
 LIBOR +3.25%
 
 
 3.83
%
 
 2033
 


 Trust 3
 
 
 2003
 
 
 7,217
 
 
 7,217
 
 LIBOR +3.15%
 
 
 3.70
%
 
 2033
 


 Trust 4
 
 
 2006
 
 
 11,341
 
 
 11,341
 
 LIBOR +1.63%
 
 
 2.18
%
 
 2036
 


 Harrodsburg
 
 
 2003
 
 
 5,016
 
 
 4,932
 
 LIBOR +3.15%
 
 
 3.72
%
 
 2033
 


 Independence
 
 
 2003
 
 
 4,012
 
 
 3,946
 
 LIBOR +3.15%
 
 
 3.72
%
 
 2033
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 $
50,267
 
 $
50,117
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




62



 
Table of Contents
 NOTE 14 — LOAN SERVICING  
        Loans serviced for others are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Loan servicing fee income was $2,104,
$1,890, and $1,521 for 2011, 2010, and 2009. The unpaid principal balances of loans serviced for others totaled $780,388 and $781,673 at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Custodial escrow balances
maintained in connection with serviced loans were $10,423 and $7,403 at year end 2011 and 2010. The weighted average amortization period is 4.2 years. Mortgage servicing rights are included in
other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing assets is based on comparable market values and expected cash flows, with impairment assessed based on
portfolio characteristics including product type and interest rates. The fair market value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights was estimated at $5,412 and $5,498 at year end 2011 and 2010. Fair
value at year-end 2011 was determined using a discount rate of 9%, and prepayment speeds ranging from 231% to 396%, depending on the stratification of the specific right. Fair value at year-end 2010
was determined using a discount rate of 9%, and prepayment speeds ranging from 160% to 373%, depending on the stratification of the specific right. 



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Mortgage servicing assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, January 1
 
 $
5,498
 
 $
5,042
 
 $
3,359
 


 Servicing assets capitalized
 
 
 1,257
 
 
 1,748
 
 
 3,400
 


 Amortization of servicing assets
 
 
 (1,388
)
 
 (1,424
)
 
 (2,317
)


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
 45
 
 
 132
 
 
 600
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31
 
 $
5,412
 
 $
5,498
 
 $
5,042
 


 
 
 
 


 Valuation allowance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, January 1
 
 $
494
 
 $
626
 
 $
1,226
 


 Additions expensed
 
 
 300
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Reductions credited to operations
 
 
 (345
)
 
 (132
)
 
 (600
)


 
 
 
 


 Balance, December 31
 
 $
449
 
 $
494
 
 $
626
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 15 — INCOME TAX  
        Income tax expense (benefit) was as follows: 



















Year Ended December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Currently payable
 
 $
3,746
 
 $
3,885
 
 $
(391
)


 Deferred
 
 
 (1,165
)
 
 (4,708
)
 
 (12,360
)


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
 1,157
 
 
 1,062
 
 
 1,106
 


 
 
 
 


 Total income tax expense
 
 $
3,738
 
 $
239
 
 $
(11,645
)


 
 
 
 




        Effective
tax rates differ from the federal statutory rate of 35% applied to income before income taxes due to the following: 



















 Federal statutory income tax rate
 
 
 35
%
 
 35
%
 
 35
%


 Federal statutory income tax
 
 $
9,643
 
 $
5,264
 
 $
(26,524
)


 Tax exempt interest
 
 
 (4,631
)
 
 (3,999
)
 
 (3,263
)


 Effect of state income taxes
 
 
 72
 
 
 29
 
 
 (228
)


 Resolution of uncertain tax position
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (600
)


 Non-deductible expenses
 
 
 163
 
 
 135
 
 
 108
 


 Non-deductible goodwill impairment
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 19,795
 


 Tax exempt income on life insurance
 
 
 (469
)
 
 (460
)
 
 (356
)


 Tax credits
 
 
 (898
)
 
 (717
)
 
 (474
)


 Other
 
 
 (142
)
 
 (13
)
 
 (103
)


 
 
 
 


 Income tax expense
 
 $
3,738
 
 $
239
 
 $
(11,645
)


 
 
 
 




63



 
Table of Contents
        The
components of the net deferred tax asset (liability) are as follows: 
















December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for loan losses
 
 $
15,393
 
 $
16,759
 


 Net operating loss carryforward
 
 
 5,673
 
 
 5,075
 


 Credit carryforwards
 
 
 7,448
 
 
 5,385
 


 OREO write-downs
 
 
 1,520
 
 
 775
 


 Other
 
 
 1,278
 
 
 1,458
 


 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
 
 31,312
 
 
 29,452
 


 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation
 
 
 (3,204
)
 
 (2,388
)


 Mortgage servicing rights
 
 
 (2,135
)
 
 (2,151
)


 Unrealized gain on securities AFS
 
 
 (12,326
)
 
 (5,093
)


 Other
 
 
 (2,638
)
 
 (2,743
)


 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
 (20,303
)
 
 (12,375
)


 
 
 
 


 Less: Valuation allowance
 
 
 (6,039
)
 
 (4,882
)


 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax asset
 
 $
4,970
 
 $
12,195
 


 
 
 
 




        The
Company has $2,805 of alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards, which under current tax law have no expiration period. The Company has general business credit carryforwards of
$4,643 that begin to expire in 2027. 
        The
Company has an Indiana state operating loss carryforward of $102,679, which begins to expire in 2019. The Company maintains a valuation allowance to reduce these carryforward items
and other Indiana deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. 
        A
valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is recorded when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate
realization of the deferred tax assets depends on the ability of the Company to generate sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character in the future and in the appropriate taxing
jurisdictions. At December 31, 2011, the largest component of deferred tax assets is associated with the allowance for loan losses. The Company considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax
liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. With the exception of the deferred tax asset associated with the Company's
Indiana deferred tax assets, no valuation allowance for deferred tax assets are considered necessary at December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
        Retained
earnings of certain subsidiary banks include approximately $13,112 for which no deferred income tax liability has been recognized. This amount represents an allocation of income
to bad debt deductions as of December 31, 1987 for tax purposes only. Reduction of amounts so allocated for purposes other than tax bad debt losses including redemption of bank stock or excess
dividends, or loss of "bank" status would create income for tax purposes only, which would be subject to the then-current corporate income tax rate. The unrecorded deferred income tax liability on the
above amount for the Company was approximately $4,589 at each of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
 Unrecognized Tax Benefits  
        A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Balance at January 1,
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
484
 


 Additions related to tax positions in current year
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Reductions of tax positions from prior years
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 (484
)


 
 
 
 


 Balance at December 31,
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 
 $
—
 


 
 
 
 




        The
Company does not expect the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits to significantly increase or decrease in the next twelve months. 
        The
total amount of interest and penalties recorded in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $0, $0, and a reduction of $116 respectively,
and the amount accrued for interest and penalties at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $0, $0, and $0. 
        The
Company and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of the states of Indiana and Illinois. The Company is no longer subject to examination by
taxing authorities for years before 2008. 
64



 
Table of Contents
        The
Company is currently under a sales and use tax, income tax, and payroll withholding tax audit for the calendar years of 2009 and 2010 with the state of Indiana. The Company is also
currently under audit with the state of Illinois for Illinois business tax for the years 2008 and 2009. The Company does not expect the results of these audits to have a material impact on the
financial condition of the Company. 
 NOTE 16 — OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)  



















Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
Before-Tax
Amount
 
Tax (Expense)/
Benefit
 
Net-of-Tax
Amount
 


 
 


 Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available for sale securities
 
 $
32,025
 
 $
(11,095
)
 $
20,930
 


 Less: reclassification adjustment for gains realized in net income
 
 
 11,357
 
 
 (3,861
)
 
 7,496
 


 
 
 
 


 Other comprehensive income/(loss)
 
 $
20,668
 
 $
(7,234
)
 $
13,434
 


 
 
 
 


Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

Before-Tax
Amount
 

Tax (Expense)/
Benefit
 

Net-of-Tax
Amount
 


 
 


 Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available for sale securities
 
 $
(1,868
)
 $
651
 
 $
(1,217
)


 Less: reclassification adjustment for gains realized in net income
 
 
 2,979
 
 
 (1,043
)
 
 1,936
 


 
 
 
 


 Other comprehensive income/(loss)
 
 $
(4,847
)
 $
1,694
 
 $
(3,153
)


 
 
 
 


Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

Before-Tax
Amount
 

Tax (Expense)/
Benefit
 

Net-of-Tax
Amount
 


 
 


 Unrealized holding gains/(losses) on available for sale securities
 
 $
15,817
 
 $
(5,506
)
 $
10,311
 


 Less: reclassification adjustment for gains realized in net income
 
 
 1,263
 
 
 (448
)
 
 815
 


 
 
 
 


 Other comprehensive income/(loss)
 
 $
14,554
 
 $
(5,058
)
 $
9,496
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 17 — COMMITMENTS  
        Some financial instruments, such as loan commitments, credit lines, letters of credit, and overdraft protection, are issued to meet
customer financing needs. These are agreements to provide credit or to support the credit of others, as long as conditions established in the contract are met, and usually have expiration dates.
Commitments may expire without being used. Off-balance sheet risk to credit loss exists up to the face amount of these instruments, although material losses are not anticipated. The same credit
policies are used to make such commitments as are used for loans, including obtaining collateral at exercise of the commitment. 
        Financial
instruments whose contract amount represents credit risk as of December 31 were as follows: 






















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
Fixed
Rate
 
Variable
Rate
 
Fixed
Rate
 
Variable
Rate
 


 
 


 Commitments to extend credit and unused lines of credit
 
 $
2,661
 
 $
352,774
 
 $
4,018
 
 $
301,331
 


 Commercial letters of credit
 
 
 —
 
 
 26,062
 
 
 —
 
 
 22,016
 




        Commitments
to make loans are generally made for periods of 60 days or less. Interest rates on fixed rate commitments range from 5.00% to 19.8% with maturities ranging from
1 year to 9 years. 
 NOTE 18 — DIVIDENDS  
        The Company's principal source of funds for dividend payments is dividends received from the Bank. Banking regulations limit the amount
of dividends that may be paid without prior approval of regulatory agencies. Under these regulations, the amount of dividends that may be paid in any calendar year is limited to the current year's net
profits, combined with the retained net profits of the preceding two years, subject to the capital requirements described in Note 20. As a result of the goodwill impairment charges in 2009, the
Bank and the Company are not currently able to pay dividends without prior approval. The Company is also limited by the requirements of the U. S. Department of Treasury Capital Purchase Program
(See Note 27) and Regulatory Action (See Note 28). 
65



 
Table of Contents
 NOTE 19 — DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN  
        The Company maintains an Automatic Dividend Reinvestment Plan. The plan enables shareholders to elect to have their cash dividends on
all or a portion of shares held automatically reinvested in additional shares of the Company's common stock. The stock is purchased by the Company's transfer agent on the open market and credited to
participant accounts at fair market value. Dividends are reinvested on a quarterly basis. 
 NOTE 20 — REGULATORY CAPITAL  
        Banks and bank holding companies are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies
and are assigned to a capital category. The assigned capital category is largely determined by three ratios that are calculated according to the regulations. The ratios are intended to measure capital
relative to assets and credit risk associated with those assets and off-balance sheet exposures. The capital category assigned to an entity can also be affected by qualitative judgments made by
regulatory agencies about the risk inherent in the entity's activities that are not part of the calculated ratios. Failure to meet capital requirements can initiate regulatory action. Risk adjusted
capital levels of the Company's subsidiary bank exceed regulatory definitions of well-capitalized institutions. During
the second quarter of 2010, the Bank entered into an agreement with its regulators to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 8% and a total risk based capital ratio of at least 11%. (See
Note 28). 
        Management
believes as of December 31, 2011, the Company and Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. The holding company is a source of additional
financial strength with its $8.0 million in cash and its ability to downstream additional capital to the Bank. 
        There
are five capital categories defined in the regulations, ranging from well capitalized to critically undercapitalized. Classification in any of the undercapitalized categories can
result in actions by regulators that could have a material effect on operations. At December 31, 2011and 2010, the most recent regulatory notifications categorized the Bank as well capitalized
under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective actions. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the Bank's category. 
        Actual
and required capital amounts and ratios are presented below. 




























 
 
Actual
 
Required for
Adequate Capital
 
To Comply with
Regulatory Agreement
 


 
 
 
 


December 31, 2011
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 


 
 


 MainSource Financial Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 $
313,902
 
 
 18.9
%
 
 133,201
 
 
 8.0
%
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 Tier 1 capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 
 293,039
 
 
 17.6
 
 
 66,601
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
 
 
 293,039
 
 
 10.8
 
 
 108,875
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 MainSource Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 $
299,054
 
 
 18.1
%
 
 132,001
 
 
 8.0
%
 
 181,502
 
 
 11.0
%


 Tier 1 capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 
 278,191
 
 
 16.9
 
 
 66,001
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
 
 
 278,191
 
 
 10.3
 
 
 107,675
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 215,350
 
 
 8.0
 



 
 

Actual
 

Required for
Adequate Capital
 

To Comply with
Regulatory Agreement
 


 
 
 
 


December 31, 2010
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 
Amount
 
Ratio
 


 
 


 MainSource Financial Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 $
293,069
 
 
 16.8
%
 $
139,611
 
 
 8.0
%
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 Tier 1 capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 
 270,998
 
 
 15.5
 
 
 69,806
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
 
 
 270,998
 
 
 9.7
 
 
 112,069
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 N/A
 
 
 N/A
 


 MainSource Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 $
271,430
 
 
 15.7
%
 $
138,237
 
 
 8.0
%
 $
190,076
 
 
 11.0
%


 Tier 1 capital (to risk-weighted assets)
 
 
 249,571
 
 
 14.4
 
 
 69,118
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 


 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
 
 
 249,571
 
 
 9.0
 
 
 110,761
 
 
 4.0
 
 
 221,522
 
 
 8.0
 




 NOTE 21 — EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS  
        The Company has a defined-contribution retirement plan in which substantially all employees may participate. The Company matches 80% of
the first 8% of eligible employees' contributions and makes additional contributions based on employee compensation and the overall profitability of the Company. Expense was $2,269 in 2011, $2,014 in
2010, and $916 in 2009. The Company made an additional contribution in 2011 and 2010 based on the overall profitability of the Company, but made no additional contributions in 2009 above the standard
matching provisions. 
66




 










Table of Contents 
 NOTE 22 — RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  
        The Company has entered into transactions with certain directors, executive officers, significant shareholders and their affiliates or
associates (related parties). 
        The
aggregate amount of loans, as defined, to such related parties was as follows: 













 Balances, January 1, 2011
 
 $
10,419
 


 Changes in composition of related parties
 
 
 (7,869
)


 New loans, including renewals and advances
 
 
 1,658
 


 Payments, including renewals
 
 
 (1,762
)


 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2011
 
 $
2,446
 


 
 
 
 




        Deposits
from related parties held by the Company at December 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled $2,641 and $3,073. 
 NOTE 23 — STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  
        On January 16, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors adopted and approved the MainSource Financial Group, Inc. 2007 Stock
Incentive Plan (the "2007 Stock Incentive Plan") effective upon the approval of the Plan by the Company's shareholders, which occurred on April 26, 2007 at the Company's annual meeting of
shareholders. The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonstatutory stock options, stock bonuses and restricted stock awards. Incentive stock options may be
granted only to employees. An aggregate of 650,000 shares of common stock are reserved for issuance under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Shares issuable under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan may
be authorized and unissued shares of common stock or treasury shares. The 2007 Stock Incentive Plan is in addition to, and not in replacement of, a similar plan adopted in 2003 (the "2003 Plan").
However, no further awards of options will be made under the 2003 Plan. Unexercised options, which were previously issued under the 2003 Plan, were not terminated, but continued in accordance with the
2003 Plan and the agreements pursuant to which the options were issued. 
        The
fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a closed form option valuation (Black-Scholes) model that uses the assumptions noted in the table below.
Expected volatilities are based on historical volatilities of the Company's common stock. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and post-vesting termination behavior. Employee
and management options are tracked separately. The expected term of options granted is based on historical data and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding,
which takes into account that the options are not transferable. The risk-free interest rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the
grant. 
        The
fair value of options granted was determined using the following weighted average assumptions as of grant date. 



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
 2.36
%
 
 3.04
%
 
 2.27
%


 Expected term (years)
 
 
 7.00
 
 
 7.00
 
 
 6.58
 


 Expected stock price volatility
 
 
 61.41
%
 
 57.06
%
 
 40.94
%


 Dividend yield
 
 
 0.46
%
 
 0.63
%
 
 9.81
%




        A
summary of the activity in the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2003 Plan for 2011 follows: 






















Options (restated for stock dividends and splits)
 
Shares
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price
 
Weighted
Average
Remaining
Contractual
Term
(years)
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value
 


 
 


 Outstanding, beginning of year
 
 
 409,783
 
 $
13.30
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
 14,500
 
 
 8.72
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
 —
 
 
 —
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited or expired
 
 
 (27,560
)
 
 11.15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at end of year
 
 
 396,723
 
 $
13.26
 
 
 5.1
 
 $
437
 


 Exercisable at year end
 
 
 311,154
 
 $
14.19
 
 
 4.5
 
 $
294
 


 Fully vested and expected to vest
 
 
 392,274
 
 $
13.31
 
 
 5.1
 
 $
430
 




67



 
Table of Contents
        Information
related to the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2003 Plan during each year follows: 



















 
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Intrinsic value of options exercised
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 Cash received from option exercises
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Tax benefit realized from option exercises
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Weighted average (per share) fair value of options granted
 
 
5.16
 
 
3.59
 
 
0.88
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, there was $118 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options granted under the Plan. The cost is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. 
        During
the second quarter of 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company granted restricted stock awards to certain executive officers pursuant to the
Company's annual performance-based incentive bonus plan. Compensation expense is recognized over the vesting period of the awards based on the fair value of the stock at the issue date. The value of
the awards was determined by multiplying the award amount by the closing price of a share of Company
common stock on the grant date, April 8, 2011 ($9.68). The restricted stock awards vest as follows — 80% on the second anniversary of the date of grant and 20% on the third
anniversary of the date of grant. Additionally, the restricted stock, to the extent vested, will not become transferable until such time as the Treasury Department no longer holds shares of preferred
stock of the Company, provided that 25% of the restricted stock will become transferable as each 25% of the preferred stock is repurchased by the Company, and provided further that the grantee will be
permitted to sell the stock if necessary to pay any any tax liability resulting from the vesting of the stock. A total of 46,244 shares of restricted common stock of the Company were granted under the
2007 Stock Incentive Plan. A total of 391,589 remain to be granted under this plan. 
        A
summary of changes in the Company's nonvested shares for 2011 follows: 
















 
 
Shares
 
Weighted Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
 


 
 


 Nonvested at January 1, 2011
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 Granted
 
 
46,244
 
$
9.68
 


 Vested
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 Forfeited
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 
 
 


 Nonvested at December 31, 2011
 
 
46,244
 
$
9.68
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, there was $340 of total unrecognized compensation costs related to nonvested restricted stock awards granted under the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan that will
be recognized over the remaining vesting period of approximately 2.2 years. The recognized compensation costs related to the 2007 Stock Incentive Plan was $107 and $0 for the 2011 and 2010
respectively. 
        During
the second quarter of 2011, members of the Board of Directors of the Company were given the option of having their annual retainer paid in cash, Company stock, or a combination of
cash and stock. The annual retainer is paid quarterly, on May 1, August 1, November 1, and February 1, for all directors serving on the Board on those dates. Other expense
is recognized over the three month period of the awards based on the fair value of the stock at the issue dates. The value of the quarterly awards were determined by multiplying the award amount by
the average closing price of a share of Company common stock on the five trading days prior to the issuance of the stock ($9.53 for the second quarter payouts, $8.80 for the third quarter payouts, and
$9.44 for the fourth quarter). The shares issued vest immediately. A total of 6,750 shares of common stock were granted to directors during the second quarter of 2011. 7,902 shares of common stock
were granted to directors during the
third quarter of 2011, and 9,130 shares of common stock were granted to directors during the fourth quarter of 2011. A total of $220 was recognized as expense in 2011 for these grants. 
68



 
Table of Contents
 NOTE 24 — EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE  
        Earnings/(loss) per common share were computed as follows: 



















Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
Net
Income/(Loss)
 
Weighted
Average
Shares
 
Per
Share
Amount
 


 
 


 Basic Earnings Per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
23,813
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred dividends and discount accretion
 
 
(3,054
)
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
20,759
 
 
20,179,512
 
$
1.03
 


 Effect of dilutive stock options
 
 
 
 
 
41,615
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common shareholders and assumed conversions
 
$
20,759
 
 
20,221,127
 
$
1.03
 


 
 
 
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 Basic Earnings Per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
14,802
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred dividends and discount accretion
 
 
(3,054
)
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
11,748
 
 
20,136,362
 
$
0.58
 


 Effect of dilutive stock options
 
 
 
 
 
18,022
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Diluted Earnings Per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income available to common shareholders and assumed conversions
 
$
11,748
 
 
20,154,384
 
$
0.58
 


 
 
 
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 


 Basic Loss Per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss)
 
$
(64,139
)
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preferred dividends and discount accretion
 
 
(2,919
)
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(67,058
)
 
20,136,362
 
$
(3.33
)


 Effect of dilutive stock options
 
 
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 


 Diluted (Loss) Per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) attributable to common shareholders and assumed conversions
 
$
(67,058
)
 
20,136,362
 
$
(3.33
)


 
 
 
 




        Stock
options for 254,850, 262,441, and 429,608 shares of common stock were not considered in computing diluted earnings per common share for 2011, 2010 and 2009 because they were
antidilutive. Stock warrants for 571,906 shares of common stock were not considered in computing earnings per share in 2011 and 2010 because they were antidilutive. 
69



 
Table of Contents
 NOTE 25 — QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)  

























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earnings/(Loss) per Common Share 
 


 
 
Interest
Income
 
Net Interest
Income
 
Net Income
 
Basic
 
Fully
Diluted
 


 
 


 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First quarter
 
$
31,177
 
$
24,950
 
$
4,546
 
$
0.19
 
$
0.19
 


 Second quarter
 
 
31,122
 
 
25,390
 
 
7,626
 
 
0.34
 
 
0.34
 


 Third quarter
 
 
30,345
 
 
25,070
 
 
5,615
 
 
0.24
 
 
0.24
 


 Fourth quarter
 
 
28,967
 
 
24,438
 
 
6,026
 
 
0.26
 
 
0.26
 


 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First quarter
 
$
34,271
 
$
25,231
 
$
3,249
 
$
0.12
 
$
0.12
 


 Second quarter
 
 
34,039
 
 
25,364
 
 
2,165
 
 
0.07
 
 
0.07
 


 Third quarter
 
 
34,017
 
 
25,794
 
 
4,600
 
 
0.19
 
 
0.19
 


 Fourth quarter
 
 
32,244
 
 
24,863
 
 
4,788
 
 
0.20
 
 
0.20
 




 NOTE 26 — PARENT ONLY CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
 Parent Only Condensed Balance Sheets  
















December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 


 
 


 Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
8,022
 
$
14,284
 


 Securities available for sale
 
 
899
 
 
899
 


 Investment in subsidiaries
 
 
372,476
 
 
332,091
 


 Other assets
 
 
11,482
 
 
9,774
 


 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
392,879
 
$
357,048
 


 
 
 
 


 Liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Subordinated debentures
 
$
50,267
 
$
50,117
 


 Other liabilities
 
 
6,059
 
 
4,361
 


 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
56,326
 
 
54,478
 


 Shareholders' equity
 
 
336,553
 
 
302,570
 


 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and shareholders' equity
 
$
392,879
 
$
357,048
 


 
 
 
 




70



 
Table of Contents
 Parent Only Condensed Statements of Operations  



















Year Ended December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Dividends from subsidiaries
 
$
2,825
 
$
1,119
 
$
450
 


 Fees from subsidiaries
 
 
19,624
 
 
17,669
 
 
16,178
 


 Other Income
 
 
176
 
 
233
 
 
482
 


 
 
 
 


 Total income
 
 
22,625
 
 
19,021
 
 
17,110
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
 
1,737
 
 
1,755
 
 
2,072
 


 Salaries and benefits
 
 
11,388
 
 
11,062
 
 
9,249
 


 Professional fees
 
 
2,534
 
 
1,275
 
 
1,189
 


 Other expenses
 
 
13,173
 
 
12,223
 
 
11,497
 


 
 
 
 


 Total expenses
 
 
28,832
 
 
26,315
 
 
24,007
 


 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
 
 
(6,207
)
 
(7,294
)
 
(6,897
)


 Income tax expense (benefit)
 
 
(3,069
)
 
(2,989
)
 
(3,245
)


 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
 
 
(3,138
)
 
(4,305
)
 
(3,652
)


 Equity in undistributed income (loss) of subsidiaries
 
 
26,951
 
 
19,107
 
 
(60,487
)


 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
23,813
 
$
14,802
 
$
(64,139
)


 
 
 
 




 Parent Only Condensed Statements of Cash Flows  



















Year Ended December 31
 
2011
 
2010
 
2009
 


 
 


 Operating Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
23,813
 
$
14,802
 
$
(64,139
)


 Undistributed (income)/loss of subsidiaries
 
 
(26,951
)
 
(19,107
)
 
60,487
 


 Changes in other assets and liabilities
 
 
2,699
 
 
1,838
 
 
(1,242
)


 
 
 
 


 Net cash used by operating activities
 
 
(439
)
 
(2,467
)
 
(4,894
)


 Investing Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital contributed to subsidiary
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(11,000
)


 Cash received from subsidiaries
 
 
—
 
 
1,287
 
 
—
 


 Purchase of security AFS
 
 
—
 
 
(39
)
 
—
 


 Purchases of equipment
 
 
(2,166
)
 
(1,766
)
 
(2,569
)


 
 
 
 


 Net cash used by investing activities
 
 
(2,166
)
 
(518
)
 
(13,569
)


 Financing Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Issuance of preferred shares, net of issuance costs
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
55,783
 


 Issuance of warrants to purchase common shares
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,116
 


 Cash dividends on preferred stock
 
 
(2,850
)
 
(2,850
)
 
(2,367
)


 Net change in other borrowings
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10,500
)


 Cash dividends on common stock
 
 
(807
)
 
(805
)
 
(5,135
)


 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
 
 
(3,657
)
 
(3,655
)
 
38,897
 


 
 
 
 


 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(6,262
)
 
(6,640
)
 
20,434
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year
 
 
14,284
 
 
20,924
 
 
490
 


 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year
 
$
8,022
 
$
14,284
 
$
20,924
 


 
 
 
 




71



 
Table of Contents
 NOTE 27 — PREFERRED STOCK  
        On January 16, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with the United States Department of Treasury (the "Treasury
Department") as part of the Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program. Under this agreement, the Company issued to the Treasury Department 57,000 shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, Series A ("preferred stock"), having a liquidation amount per share of $1,000, for a total price of $57 million and a warrant to purchase up to 571,906 shares ("warrant
shares") of the Company's common stock, at an initial per share exercise price of $14.95, for an aggregate purchase price of $8.55 million. 
        The
preferred stock pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% per year for the first five years and 9% per year thereafter. Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears on
February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year. The Company may, at its option and at any time, redeem the preferred stock for the liquidation amount of $1,000
per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. While the preferred stock is outstanding, the Company may only pay dividends on common stock if all accrued and unpaid dividends for the preferred
stock have been paid. 
        In
addition to the preferred shares, the Treasury Department received a warrant to purchase 571,906 shares of the Company's common stock at an initial per share exercise price of $14.95.
The warrant provides for the adjustment of the exercise price and the number of shares of the Company's common stock issuable upon exercise pursuant to customary anti-dilution provisions,
such as upon stock splits or distributions of securities or other assets to holders of Company common stock, and upon certain issuances of the Company common stock at or below a specified price
relative to the initial exercise price. The warrant has a term of ten years and is currently exercisable. The Treasury Department has agreed not to exercise voting power with respect to any shares of
common stock issued upon exercise of the warrant. Like stock options, the warrant issued through the Capital Purchase Program is potentially dilutive. The average stock price for the Company for 2011
and 2010 was $8.86 and $7.43 per share and the warrant issued in 2009 has an exercise price of $14.95 per share. This resulted in no additional potentially dilutive shares during 2010 or 2011. 
 NOTE 28 — REGULATORY ACTION  
        Effective April 22, 2010, MainSource Bank entered into an informal agreement with the FDIC and Indiana Department of Financial
Institutions pursuant to which the Bank has agreed to take various actions and comply with certain requirements. The informal agreement is not a "written agreement" for purposes of Section 8 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Among its terms, the agreement documents an understanding among the Bank, the FDIC and the DFI that requires the Bank to maintain its Tier 1 leverage ratio at
a minimum of 8% and its total risk based capital ratio at a minimum of 11%. Additionally, the agreement requires the Bank to continue to obtain the approval of the FDIC and DFI prior to paying a cash
dividend from the Bank to the Company, a practice in which the Bank was already engaged. At the time it entered into the agreement and at all times since that date, the Bank exceeded the required
minimum capital levels and believes it is in substantial compliance with all other terms of the agreement. 
        The
agreement will remain in effect until modified or terminated by the FDIC and the DFI. The Company has not and does not expect the actions called for by the agreement to change in any
material respect our ongoing efforts to improve the performance of the Bank by reducing non-performing assets and increasing earnings. The Board of Directors and management of the Bank
have taken various actions to comply with the agreement, and will continue to take all actions necessary for continued compliance. Compliance with the terms of the agreement has not and is not
expected to have a material effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or the Bank. 
72




 











Table of Contents 
 
    ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE     
        In connection with its audits for the three most recent fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, there have been no disagreements
with the Company's independent registered public accounting firm on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement disclosure or auditing scope or procedure. 
 
    ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS & PROCEDURES     
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of
the Company's management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on their evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures are, to the best of their knowledge, effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it
files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms as of such date. 
        Our
management has evaluated our internal control over financial reporting and there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the most recent
fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        MainSource Financial Group, Inc. (the "Corporation") is responsible for the preparation, integrity, and fair presentation of the
consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. The consolidated financial statements and notes included in this annual report have been prepared in conformity with United States
generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include some amounts that are based on management's best estimates and judgments. 
        We,
as management of the Corporation, are responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting that is designed to produce reliable financial
statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The system of internal control over financial reporting as it relates to the financial statements is evaluated for
effectiveness by management and tested for reliability through a program of internal audits and other management testing. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        Management
assessed the Corporation's system of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, in relation to criteria for effective internal control over
financial reporting as described in "Internal Control —
Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2011, its system of
internal controls over financial reporting is effective and meets the criteria of the "Internal Control — Integrated Framework". Crowe Horwath LLP, independent registered
public accounting firm, has issued an attestation report dated March 12, 2012 on the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting. This report is incorporated by reference in
Item 8 above, under the heading "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm". 
Archie
M. Brown, Jr.
President and Chief Executive Officer 
James
M. Anderson
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
 
    ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION     
        None 
73




 











Table of Contents 
 
 
PART IV   
 
    ITEM 15    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     
(a)(1)
Financial Statements. 
        Financial
Statements filed as part of this Form 10-K are included under Part II, Item 8, above. 
(a)(2)
Financial statement schedules 
        All
schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or not required, or because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements or related notes in
Part II, Item 8 above. 
(a)(3)
Exhibits: 
        3.1       Amended
and Restated Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the registrant
for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 filed August 10, 2009 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        3.2       Amended
and Restated Bylaws of MainSource Financial Group, Inc. dated July 19, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Report on
Form 8-K of the registrant filed July 22, 2010 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.1       Indenture
dated as of December 19, 2002 between the Registrant, as issuer, and State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, N.A., as trustee, re:
floating rate junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures due 2032 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 filed March 28, 2003 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.2       Amended
and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of December 19, 2002 among State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, N.A., as institutional
trustee, the Registrant, as sponsor, and James L. Saner Sr., Donald A. Benziger and James M. Anderson, as administrators (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 filed March 28, 2003 with the Commission (Commission
File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.3       Guarantee
Agreement dated as of December 19, 2002 between the Registrant, and State Street Bank and Trust Company of Connecticut, N.A (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 filed March 28, 2003 with the
Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.4       Indenture
dated as of April 1, 2003 between the Registrant, as issuer, and U.S. Bank, N.A., as trustee, re: floating rate junior subordinated
deferrable interest debentures due 2033 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the registrant for the quarter ended June 30,
2003 filed August 14, 2003 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.5       Amended
and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of April 1, 2003 among U.S. Bank, N.A., as institutional trustee, the Registrant, as sponsor, and
James L. Saner Sr., Donald A. Benziger and James M. Anderson, as administrators (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q of the registrant for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 filed August 14, 2003 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.6       Guarantee
Agreement dated as of April 1, 2003 between the Registrant, and U.S. Bank, N.A (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the registrant for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 filed August 14, 2003 with the Commission (Commission
File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.7       Indenture
dated as of June 12, 2003 between the Registrant, as issuer, and The Bank of New York, as trustee, re: rate junior subordinated deferrable
interest debentures due (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the registrant for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 filed
August 14, 2003 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.8       Amended
and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of June 12, 2003 among The Bank of New York, as institutional trustee, the Registrant, as sponsor, and
James L. Saner Sr., Donald A. Benziger and James M. Anderson, as administrators (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.5 to the Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q of the registrant for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 filed August 14, 2003 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.9       Guarantee
Agreement dated as of June 12, 2003 between the Registrant, and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the registrant for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 filed August 14, 2003 with the Commission (Commission
File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.10     Form
of Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust dated as of October 13, 2006, of MainSource Statutory Trust IV, among MainSource Financial
Group, Inc. as sponsor, Wells Fargo Delaware Trust Company as Delaware trustee and Wells Fargo 
74



 
Table of Contents
Bank,
National Association, as institutional trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the periodic report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed October 17,
2006 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.11     Form
of Indenture dated as of October 13, 2006, between MainSource Financial Group, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the periodic report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed October 17, 2006 with the Commission (Commission
File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.12     Form
of Guarantee Agreement dated as of October 13, 2006, between MainSource Financial Group, Inc., as guarantor, and Wells Fargo Bank, National
Association, as guarantee trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the periodic report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed October 17, 2006 with the
Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.13     Form
of Certificate for the MainSource Financial Group, Inc. Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 4.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed January 20, 2009 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        4.14     Warrant
for the Purchase of Shares of MainSource Financial Group, Inc. Common Stock (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Report on
Form 8-K of the registrant filed January 20, 2009 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        10.1     Registrant's
2003 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 filed March 12, 2004 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.2     Form
of Stock Option Agreement Under 2003 Stock Option Plan for Directors of Registrant dated May 19, 2003 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 filed March 12, 2004 with the Commission (Commission
File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.3     Form
of Stock Option Agreement Under 2003 Stock Option Plan for Officers of Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on
Form 8-K of the registrant filed February 24, 2005 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.4     Letter
Agreement between MainSource Financial Group, Inc. and Archie M. Brown, Jr. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report
on Form 8-K of the registrant filed July 24, 2008 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.5     Form
of Indemnification Agreement for Directors and Certain Officers of Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on
Form 8-K of the registrant filed February 24, 2005 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        10.6     Registrant's
2007 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for the year
ending December 31, 2007, filed March 17, 2008 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.7     Form
of Award Agreement for Archie M. Brown, Jr. under the MainSource Financial Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed July 24, 2008 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.8     Form
of Stock Award Agreement under the MainSource Financial Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (for Executives) (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-k of the registrant filed February 27, 2009 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.9     Letter
Agreement, dated January 16, 2009, between MainSource Financial Group, Inc. and the United States Department of Treasury, which includes the
Securities Purchase Agreement-Standard Terms attached thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed January 20,
2009 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        10.10   Form
of Senior Executive Officer Letter Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Report on Form 8-K of the registrant
filed January 20, 2009 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.11   Form
of Waiver (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Report on Form 8-K of the registrant filed January 20, 2009 with the
Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        10.12   Consulting
Agreement, Restrictive Covenants, and Releases dated January 24, 2011, between Jeffrey C. Smith and MainSource Financial Group, Inc.
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Report on Form 8-k of the registrant filed on January 28, 2011 with the Commission (Commission File
No. 0-12422)).* 
75



 
Table of Contents
        10.13   Form
of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executives) under the MainSource Financial Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of the registrant filed on August 8, 2011, for the quarter ending June 30, 2011, with the Commission
(Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.14   Change
in Control Agreement with Archie M. Brown, Jr. dated November 14, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Report on
Form 8-k of the registrant filed on November 17, 2011 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.15   Change
in Control Agreement with James M. Anderson dated November 14, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Report on
Form 8-k of the registrant filed on November 17, 2011 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.16   Change
in Control Agreement with Daryl R. Tressler dated November 14, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Report on
Form 8-k of the registrant filed on November 17, 2011 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        10.17   Change
in Control Agreement with William J. Goodwin dated November 14, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Report on
Form 8-k of the registrant filed on November 17, 2011 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)).* 
        14        Code
of Ethical Conduct (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the registrant for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2003 filed March 12, 2004 with the Commission (Commission File No. 0-12422)). 
        21        List
of subsidiaries of the Registrant. 
        23.1     Consent
of Crowe Horwath LLP 
        31.1     Certification
pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Executive Officer 
        31.2     Certification
pursuant to Section 302 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief Financial Officer 
        The
following exhibits 32.1 and 32.2 accompany this periodic report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "2002 Act"). These exhibits shall be
deemed only to accompany this periodic report and are not part of this periodic report, shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and may not be for any purpose
other than compliance with the 2002 Act. 
        32.1     Certification
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Chief Executive Officer 
        32.2     Certification
pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, by Chief Financial Officer 
        99.1     Subsequent
fiscal year certification of the Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 111(b) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
        99.2     Subsequent
fiscal year certification of the Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Section 111(b) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
        101      The
following financial statements and notes from the MainSource Financial Group Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted
in XBRL pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets; (ii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations; (iii) Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity; (iv) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow; and (v) the Notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements.** 



*A
management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
**Furnished,
not filed, for purposes of Section 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  
(b)Exhibits 
        Reference
is made to Item 15(a)(3) above.  

(c)Schedules

        None
required 
76




 










Table of Contents 
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 12th day of March, 2012. 













 
 
 MAINSOURCE FINANCIAL GROUP, INC.
 
 



 
 
 /s/ Archie M. Brown, Jr.

  President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 




        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report on Form 10-K has been signed by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities with the Company and on the dates indicated. 















Signature
 
Capacity
 
Date


 



 
 

 
 

 
 

 


/s/
 
 William G. Barron
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 William G. Barron
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Brian J. Crall
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Brian J. Crall
 
 Lead Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Philip A. Frantz
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Philip A. Frantz
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Rick S. Hartman
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Rick S. Hartman
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 D.J. Hines
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 D.J. Hines
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 William J. McGraw III
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 William J. McGraw III
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Thomas M. O'Brien
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Thomas M. O'Brien
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Kathleen Bardwell
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Kathleen Bardwell
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Lawrence R. Rueff DVM
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Lawrence R. Rueff DVM
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 John G. Seale
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 John G. Seale
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Charles J. Thayer
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Charles J. Thayer
 
 Director
 
 March 12, 2012




77



 
Table of Contents















 /s/
 
 James M. Anderson
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 James M. Anderson
 
 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer)
 
 March 12, 2012


 /s/
 
 Archie M. Brown, Jr.
 

 
 

 


 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 Archie M. Brown, Jr.
 
 President, Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman of the Board
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
 March 12, 2012




78










