
10-K
1
d265830d10k.htm
10-K


10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
 Annual report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
Commission file number 1-10254 
   
TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Georgia
 
58-1493818

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 One TSYS Way Columbus, Georgia
 
31901

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code) (706) 649-2310 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $.10 Par Value
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    YES  x    NO  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Exchange Act.    YES  ¨    NO  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    YES  x    NO  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    YES  x    NO  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.   










Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated Filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    YES  ¨    NO  x 
As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was
approximately $3,442,506,000 based on the closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.  As of
February 21, 2012, there were 188,880,349 shares of the registrant’s common stock outstanding.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE   








 Incorporated Documents
  
  
  
 Form 10-K Reference Locations

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 (“Annual Report”)
  

  
Parts I, II, III and IV





Portions of the 2012 Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 1, 2012 (“Proxy Statement”)
  

  
Part III
    
 


Table of Contents
Table of Contents 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 

Part I 
  

  




Safe Harbor Statement 
  
 
1
  

Item 1.
  
 Business
  
 
1
  

Item 1A.
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
5
  

Item 1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
12
  

Item 2.
  
 Properties
  
 
12
  

Item 3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
12
  

Item 4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
12
  





Part II 
  

  




Item 5.
  
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
12
  

Item 6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
13
  

Item 7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
13
  

Item 7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
13
  

Item 8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
15
  

Item 9.
  
 Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
15
  

Item 9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
15
  

Item 9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
16
  





Part III 
  

  




Item 10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
16
  

Item 11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
17
  

Item 12.
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
17
  

Item 13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
17
  

Item 14.
  
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
17
  





Part IV 
  

  




Item 15.
  
 Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
18
  



Table of Contents
PART I 
Safe Harbor Statement  We have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and from time to time our management may make, statements that may constitute “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only our belief regarding future events, many of which by their
nature are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans, objectives and results, among other things, and
also include (without limitation) statements made in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report. It is possible that our actual results may
differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include, among others, those discussed
under “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this annual report and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this annual report. 
Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they
are made. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or
otherwise except as required by applicable law. You should, however, consult further disclosures we may make in future filings of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments
thereto.   


Item 1.
Business 
Business. Based in Columbus, Georgia, and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TSS,” we
are a global payment solutions provider that provides services to financial and nonfinancial institutions. The services we provide are divided into three operating segments, North America Services, which accounted for 51.4% of our revenues in 2011,
International Services, which accounted for 21.6% of our revenues in 2011, and Merchant Services, which accounted for 27.0% of our revenues in 2011.  Seasonality. Due to the somewhat seasonal nature of the credit card industry, our revenues and results of operations have generally increased in the fourth quarter of each year
because of increased transaction and authorization volumes during the traditional holiday shopping season. 
  1 


Table of Contents
Intellectual Property. Our intellectual property portfolio is a component of
our ability to be a leading electronic payment services provider. We diligently protect and work to build our intellectual property rights through patent, servicemark and trade secret laws. We also use various licensed intellectual property to
conduct our business. In addition to using our intellectual property in our own operations, we grant licenses to certain of our clients to use our intellectual property.  Major Customer. A significant amount of our revenues is derived from long-term contracts with large clients, including our major customer during 2011, Bank of America Corporation. For the
year ended December 31, 2011, Bank of America Corporation accounted for approximately 11.7% of our total revenues. As a result, the loss of Bank of America Corporation, or other large clients, could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See “Major Customer” and “Operating Segments” under the “Financial Review” Section on page 20, and 20 through 23, respectively, and Note 22 on pages 61 through
63 of the Annual Report which are incorporated in this document by reference.  Competition. We encounter
vigorous competition in providing electronic payment services from several different sources. TSYS’ core business is derived from third-party processing for issuers and merchant acquirers. Most of the national market in third party processors
is presently being provided by approximately three vendors. We believe that as of December 31, 2011 we are the largest third party card processor in the United States. In addition, we compete with banks and acquirers who choose to process
payments in house through proprietary systems and with software vendors which provide their products to institutions which process in house. We are presently encountering, and in the future anticipate continuing to encounter, substantial competition
from data processing, bankcard computer service firms and third-party software vendors within the United States and from certain international processors, in-country providers and third-party software vendors with respect to our International
Services segment. In addition, payments networks such as Visa, MasterCard and Discover are increasingly offering products and services that compete with our products and services. 
Based upon available market share data that includes cards processed in house, we believe that during 2011 we
provided issuer processing services for 18% of the domestic consumer credit card accounts in market, 51% of the domestic commercial credit card accounts in market, 66% of the Canadian credit card accounts in market and 16% of the Western European
credit card accounts in market. With respect to the Merchant Services Segment, we provide third party processing services to merchant acquirers and Independent Sales Organizations (“ISOs”) and we are a direct merchant acquirer through TSYS
Merchant Solutions. We believe that we are the second largest processor of merchant accounts and process transactions for approximately 19% of all bankcard accepting merchant locations in the United States. Our direct merchant acquirer business is
ranked as the 10th largest merchant acquirer by dollar
volume according to The Nilson Report dated March 2011.  Our major competitor in the card processing industry is First
Data Resources, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of First Data Corporation, which provides card processing services. The principal methods of competition between us and First Data Resources are price, system performance and reliability, breadth of
features and functionality, disaster recovery capabilities 
  2 


Table of Contents

and business continuity preparedness, data security, scalability and flexibility of infrastructure and servicing capability. Other affiliates of First Data Corporation also compete with us with
respect to the provision of merchant services.  Backlog of Accounts. As of December 31, 2011, we had a
pipeline of approximately 26 million net accounts which are expected to be converted by August 2013.  Regulation
and Examination. Government regulation affects key aspects of our business, in the U.S. as well as internationally. We are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, an interagency body comprised
primarily of federal banking regulators, and also subject to examination by the various state financial regulatory agencies which supervise and regulate the financial institutions for which we provide electronic payment processing services. Matters
reviewed and examined by these federal and state financial institution regulatory agencies have included our internal controls in connection with our present performance of electronic payment processing services, and the agreements pursuant to which
we provide such services. In addition, we are registered with Visa, MasterCard, American Express and the Discover Network as a service provider and are subject to their respective rules. 
Aspects of our business are also subject to privacy regulation in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere. For example, in
the United States, we and our financial institution clients are respectively subject to the Federal Trade Commission’s and the federal banking agency information safeguarding requirements under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Federal Trade
Commission’s information safeguarding rules require us to develop, implement and maintain a written, comprehensive information security program containing safeguards that are appropriate for our size and complexity, the nature and scope of our
activities and the sensitivity of any customer information at issue. Our financial institution clients in the United States are subject to similar requirements under the guidelines issued by the federal banking agencies. As part of their compliance
with these requirements, each of our U.S. financial institution clients is expected to have a program in place for responding to unauthorized access to, or use of, customer information that could result in substantial harm or inconvenience to
customers.  As are all U.S. citizens and U.S. entities, we are subject to regulations imposed by the U.S. Treasury Office
Department of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) which prohibit or restrict financial and other transactions with specified countries, and designated individuals and entities such as terrorists and narcotics traffickers. We have procedures
and controls in place which are designed to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities. We also have procedures and controls in place which are designed to allow our processing clients to
protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities. However, due to the complexity of the payments systems to which our clients belong, such as MasterCard and Visa, it is possible our computer
systems may be used in the processing of transactions involving countries or parties subject to OFAC administered sanctions. 
We and the rest of the financial services industry continue to experience increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny, including the
enactment of additional legislative and regulatory initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 
  3 


Table of Contents

(the “Reform Act”). This legislation, which provides for significant financial regulatory reform, may have a significant and negative impact on our clients, which could impact
TSYS’ earnings through fee reductions, higher costs (both regulatory and implementation) and new restrictions on our operations. The Reform Act, among other things, provides for the regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board of debit
interchange fees that are typically paid by acquirers and charged or received by a payment card network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction. As of October 1, 2011, in accordance with
the Reform Act, the Federal Reserve Board capped the maximum U.S. debit interchange fee assessed for cards issued by large financial institutions at twenty-one cents plus five basis points, before applying an interim fraud adjustment up to an
additional one cent. Although we cannot predict the impact that the debit interchange regulations will ultimately have on us, we do not expect that they will have a significant negative impact on our business. 
The Reform Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in
the area of financial services, including consumer credit. The bureau’s future actions may make payment card transactions less attractive to card issuers, including TSYS’ clients, and thus negatively impact our business. In addition, the
Reform Act created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether nonbank financial companies such as TSYS should be supervised by the Federal Reserve Board because they are systemically important to the U.S.
financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business.  Employees.
As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 8,200 employees.  Available Information. Our website
address is www.tsys.com. You may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports in the Investor Relations section of our website
under the heading “SEC Filings.” These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for our directors, officers and employees and have also adopted Corporate
Governance Guidelines. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our board committees are available in the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.tsys.com under “Investor
Relations” then “Corporate Governance.”  For more information about our business see the “Financial
Overview” Section on pages 9 through 11, the “Financial Review” Section on pages 11 through 31 and Note 1, Note 2, Note 8, Note 19, Note 22 and Note 24 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 36 through 44, pages 46 and
47, pages 57 and 58, and pages 61 through 66 of the Annual Report which are incorporated in this document by reference. 
  4 


Table of Contents


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  This
section highlights specific risks that could affect our business and us. Although this section attempts to highlight key factors, please be aware that other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time and we
cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this report, among the other factors that could cause actual results
to differ materially are the following:  Consolidation among financial institutions, including the merger of TSYS clients with entities
that are not TSYS clients or the sale of portfolios by TSYS clients to entities that are not TSYS clients, or the nationalization or seizure by banking regulators of TSYS clients, could materially impact our financial position and results of
operation.  Consolidation among financial institutions, particularly in the area of credit card operations, continues
to be a major risk. Specifically, we face the risk that our clients may merge with entities that are not our clients, our clients may sell portfolios to entities that are not our clients and, based on current economic conditions, our clients may be
seized by banking regulators or nationalized, thereby impacting our existing agreements and projected revenues with these clients. In addition, consolidation among financial institutions has led to an increasingly concentrated client base at TSYS
which results in a changing client mix toward larger clients. Continued consolidations among financial institutions could increase the bargaining power of our current and future clients. Consolidation among financial institutions, the
nationalization of financial institutions or the seizure by banking regulators of financial institutions and the resulting loss of any significant client by us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
 If we do not successfully renew or renegotiate our agreements with our clients, our business will suffer. 
A significant amount of our revenues is derived from long-term contracts with large clients, including a major customer. Consolidation
among financial institutions has resulted in an increasingly concentrated client base. The financial position of these clients and their willingness to pay for our products and services are affected by general market positions, competitive pressures
and operating margins within their industries. Renewal or renegotiation time presents our clients with the opportunity to consider other providers. The loss or renegotiation of our contracts with existing clients or a significant decline in the
number of transactions we process for them could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operation. 
Economic conditions could adversely affect our business.  A significant portion of our revenues is derived from the number of consumer credit transactions that we process which may be affected by, among other things, overall economic conditions. The payment
processing industry depends heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. Any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in

  5 


Table of Contents

the United States or Europe, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number of transactions involving
credit and debit cards. Future reductions in consumer spending through credit card usage could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations.  Security and privacy breaches of our systems and system failures may damage client relations, our reputation and expose us to financial liability. 
The uninterrupted operation of our processing systems and the confidentiality of the client information that resides on our systems is
critical to the successful operation of our business. We have security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as business continuity plans designed to ensure our systems will not be inoperable. However, there is still a risk that a system
outage or data loss may occur which would not only damage our reputation but as a result of contractual commitments could also require the payment of penalties to our clients if our systems do not meet certain operating standards. We also have what
we believe to be sufficient security around our systems to prevent unauthorized access. An information breach in the system and loss of confidential information could have a longer and more significant impact on our business than a hardware failure.
We electronically store personal information, such as credit card numbers and related information, about consumers who are customers of our clients. If we are unable to protect, or our clients perceive that we are unable to protect, the security and
privacy of our electronic transactions, our growth could be materially adversely affected. A security or privacy breach or a system failure may:   


 
•
 
 cause our clients to lose confidence in our services; 
 


 
•
 
 harm our reputation;   


 
•
 
 expose us to financial liability, both as a result of litigation and contractually; 
 


 
•
 
 cause us to modify our protective measures which would increase our expenses; and 
 


 
•
 
 increase our expenses from potential remediation costs.  Our financial exposure from the items referenced above may either not be insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. In addition, our ability to attract and retain clients
and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. While we believe we use proven applications designed for data security and integrity to process electronic transactions, there can be no assurance that our use of
these applications will be sufficient to counter all current and emerging technology threats designed to breach our systems in order to gain access to confidential client information or our intellectual property or assurance that our use of these
applications will be sufficient to address the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential clients. 
  6 


Table of Contents
We may incur expenses associated with the signing of a significant client to our processing
system and in connection with our efforts to grow internationally or incur other costs that may hurt our financial results.  We incur significant up-front expenses prior to converting a significant client to our processing systems. In the event we enter into a processing contract with a significant client, these expenses will
directly affect our earnings results. In addition, we provide services to our clients worldwide. We are likely to incur costs in growing our business internationally, and there is no guarantee that such international expansion will be successful. We
may also incur other expenses and costs, such as operating and marketing expenses. If we are unable to successfully manage these expenses as our business develops, changes and expands, our financial position and results of operations could be
negatively impacted. In addition, changes in accounting policies can significantly affect how we calculate expenses and earnings.  There
may be a decline in the use of credit cards as a payment mechanism for consumers or adverse developments with respect to the credit card industry in general.  If consumers do not continue to use credit cards as a payment mechanism for their transactions or if there is a change in the mix of payments between cash, credit cards and debit cards, it could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We believe future growth in the use of credit cards will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In
order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to use credit cards. Moreover, if there is an adverse development in the credit card industry in general, such as new legislation or regulation
that makes it more difficult for our clients to do business, our financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. 
We may not convert and deconvert client’s portfolios as scheduled. 
The timing of the conversion of card portfolios of new clients to our processing systems and the deconversion of existing clients to
other systems impacts our revenues and expenses. There is no guarantee that conversions and deconversions will occur as scheduled and this may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 
Acquisitions and integrating such acquisitions create certain risks and may affect our financial results. 
We have acquired businesses both in the United States and internationally and will continue to explore opportunities for strategic
acquisitions in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses involves a number of risks. The core risks are in the areas of valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited diligence) and integration
(managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets so as to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the synergies projected to be realized in connection with the
acquisition). In addition, international acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including for example:   


 
•
 
 managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; 
 


 
•
 
 integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; 
  7 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 complying with foreign regulatory requirements;   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in currency exchange rates;   


 
•
 
 difficulty entering new foreign markets due to, among other things, customer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and
  


 
•
 
 general economic and political conditions.  The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion
of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
 Our business may be adversely affected by risks associated with foreign operations. 
We provide services to our clients worldwide. As a result, our revenues derived from international operations are subject to risk of loss
from foreign currency exchange rates. Revenue and profit generated by international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We have not entered into foreign exchange
forward contracts to mitigate the risks associated with our foreign operations. In addition, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that might restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign currency into U.S. dollars. The
occurrence of any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues we receive from international operations and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. In addition, our revenues derived from international operations
are subject to risk of loss as a result of social instability and unfavorable political or diplomatic developments which could negatively impact our financial results.  The costs and effects of litigation, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect our financial position and results of
operations.  We are involved in various litigation matters and from time to time may be involved in
governmental or regulatory investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. Our insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against it, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm
our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any pending litigation or future litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results
of operations. In addition, we may not be able to obtain appropriate types or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms, if at all. For more information about our legal
proceedings, see Item 3 of this annual report. 
  8 


Table of Contents
The ability to adapt technology to changing industry and customer needs or trends may affect our
competitiveness or demand for our products, which may adversely affect our financial results.  Changes in technology
may limit the competitiveness of and demand for our services and may result in our disintermediation from the payments value chain. The payment processing market in which we compete is subject to rapid and significant technological changes,
developing industry standards and changing customer needs and preferences. Also, our customers continue to adopt new technology for business and personal uses. We must anticipate and respond to these industry and customer changes in order to remain
competitive. Our inability to respond to new competitors and technological advancements could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations.  We operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our financial position may be adversely affected. 
The market for payment processing services is intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the
services they offer. We face direct competition from third parties, and since certain of our larger potential clients develop their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often
compete against our potential clients’ in-house capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete
successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 
Changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association rules or other industry standards affecting our business may impose costly compliance
burdens and negatively impact our business.  There may be changes in the laws, regulations, credit card association
rules or other industry standards that affect our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable ways in the U.S. as well as internationally. Changes to statutes, regulations or industry standards, including interpretation and implementation
of statutes, regulations or standards, could increase the cost of doing business or affect the competitive balance. Regulation of the payments industry has increased significantly in recent years. Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations
or standards to which we are subject in the U.S. as well as internationally, including the card network rules and rules with respect to privacy and information security, may result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration, the
limitation, suspension or termination of service, and the imposition of fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations, as well as damage our reputation.
 We and the rest of the financial services industry continue to experience increased legislative and regulatory scrutiny,
including the enactment of additional legislative and regulatory initiatives such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. This legislation provides for significant financial regulatory reform. The Reform Act, among

  9 


Table of Contents

other things, provides for the regulation and oversight by the Federal Reserve Board of debit interchange fees that are typically paid by acquirers and charged or received by a payment card
network for the purpose of compensating an issuer for its involvement in an electronic debit transaction. The Reform Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with responsibility for most federal consumer protection laws in the
area of financial services, including consumer credit. In addition, the Reform Act created a Financial Stability Oversight Council that has the authority to determine whether nonbank financial companies such as TSYS should be supervised by the
Federal Reserve Board because they are systemically important to the U.S. financial system. Any such designation would result in increased regulatory burdens on our business. The overall impact of the Reform Act on TSYS is difficult to estimate.
Current and future regulations as a result of the Reform Act may adversely affect our business or operations, directly or indirectly (if, for example, our clients’ businesses and operations are adversely affected). In addition, we are subject
to tax laws in each jurisdiction where we do business. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could decrease the value of revenues we receive, the value of tax losses and tax credits carry forwards recorded on our balance sheet and the amount
of our cash flow and have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.  We are subject to the business
cycles and credit risk of our merchant customers and our independent sales organizations.  A recessionary economic
environment could affect our merchants through a higher rate of business closures, resulting in lower revenues and earnings for us. Our merchants are liable for any charges properly reversed by the card issuer on behalf of the cardholder. Our
merchants and ISOs are also liable for any fines, or penalties, that may be assessed by any card networks. In the event, however, that we are not able to collect such amounts from the merchants or ISOs, due to merchant fraud, breach of contract,
insolvency, bankruptcy or any other reason, we may be liable for any such charges which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.  We incur chargeback liability when our merchants refuse or cannot reimburse chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. We cannot accurately anticipate these liabilities, which may adversely
affect our financial results.  In the event a billing dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in
favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally “charged back” to the merchant and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If we are unable to collect such amounts from the merchant’s account or
reserve account (if applicable), or if the merchant refuses or is unable, due to closure, bankruptcy or other reasons, to reimburse us for a chargeback, we bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. We may experience
significant losses from chargebacks in the future. Any increase in chargebacks not paid by our merchants could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operation. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Fraud by merchants or others may adversely affect our financial results. 
We have potential liability for fraudulent bankcard transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud
include when a merchant knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit bankcard or card number to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid bankcard, or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid
transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeit and fraud. While we have systems and procedures designed to detect and reduce the impact of fraud, we cannot assure the
effectiveness of these measures. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase our chargeback liability or other liability. Increases in chargebacks or other
liability could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.  We may not be able to successfully
manage our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims.  In the rapidly developing legal
framework, we rely on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary technology. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, third parties may
infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property or may develop software or technology competitive to us. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or services or design around our intellectual property
rights. We may have to litigate to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability, which is expensive and could cause a diversion of resources and may not
prove successful. The loss of intellectual property protection or the inability to secure or enforce intellectual property protection could harm our business and ability to compete. 
We may also be subject to costly litigation in the event our products and technology infringe upon another party’s proprietary
rights. Third parties may have, or may eventually be issued, patents that would be infringed by our products or technology. Any of these third parties could make a claim of infringement against us with respect to our products or technology. We may
also be subject to claims by third parties for breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights. Any such claims and any resulting litigation could subject us to significant liability for damages. An adverse determination in any litigation of
this type could require us to design around a third party’s patent or to license alternative technology from another party. In addition, litigation is time consuming and expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of the time and
attention of our management and employees. Any claim from third parties may result in limitation on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims.  If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. 
We are dependent upon the ability and experience of a number of highly skilled technical, management and sales and marketing personnel
who have substantial experience with our operations, the rapidly changing transaction processing industry and markets in which we offer our services. It is possible that the loss of the services of one or a combination of our key

  11 


Table of Contents

personnel would have an adverse effect on our operations. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain additional qualified management and technical
personnel. Competition for the best people, particularly those individuals with technology experience, is intense. We cannot guarantee that we will continue to attract or retain such personnel. 
 


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 
None.   


Item 2.
Properties  As of
December 31, 2011, we and our subsidiaries owned 14 facilities encompassing approximately 1,445,546 square feet and leased 51 facilities encompassing approximately 748,024 square feet. These facilities are used for operational, sales and
administrative purposes.   
















 
  
Owned Facilities
 
  
Leased Facilities
 

 
  
Number
  
Square Footage
 
  
Number
  
Square Footage
 

 North America Services
  
9
  
 
1,345,800
  
  
  8
  
 
200,097
  

 International Services
  
2
  
 
96,368
  
  
26
  
 
250,245
  

 Merchant Services
  
3
  
 
3,378
  
  
17
  
 
297,682
  
 We believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate for our current business; however, we
periodically review our space requirements and may acquire new space to meet the needs of our businesses or consolidate and dispose of or sublet facilities which are no longer required. 
See Note 1, Note 7, Note 19 and Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 36 through 44, page 46, pages 57 and 58,
and pages 61 through 63 and “Operating Expenses” and “Property and Equipment” under the “Financial Review” Section on pages 23 and 24, and page 26, respectively, of the Annual Report which are incorporated in this
document by reference.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  See
Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 57 and 58 of the Annual Report which is incorporated in this document by reference.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 
None.  
PART II   


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Repurchases of Equity Securities 
The “Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited), Stock Price, Dividend Information” Section under the “Financial Review”
Section on page 70, Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial 
  12 


Table of Contents

Statements on pages 55 and 56 and “Stock Performance Graph” on page 71 of the Annual Report are incorporated in this document by reference. The “Stock Performance Graph” is
incorporated herein by reference; however, this information shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 
The “Selected Financial Data” Section which is set forth on page 9 of the Annual Report is incorporated in this document by
reference.   


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The “Financial Overview” and “Financial Review” Sections which are set forth on pages 9 through 31 of the Annual
Report which includes the information encompassed within “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” are incorporated in this document by reference. 
 


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  Foreign Exchange Risk. We are exposed to foreign exchange risk because we have assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. These currencies are
translated into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except for revenues, costs and expenses and net income, which are translated at the average exchange rate for each reporting period. Net exchange gains or losses resulting from the translation
of assets and liabilities of our foreign operations, net of tax, are accumulated in a separate section of shareholders’ equity entitled “accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net.” The amount of other comprehensive (loss)
income, net of tax, related to foreign currency translation for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was:   
















 (in millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Comprehensive income (loss), net of tax
  
$
1.1
  
  
($
7.5
) 
 
$
12.1
  
 Currently, we do not use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to exchange rate changes.
 The following table presents the carrying value of the net assets of our foreign operations in U.S. dollars at
December 31, 2011:   








 (in millions)
  
December 31, 2011
 

 Europe
  
$
171.9
  

 China
  
 
76.3
  

 Cyprus
  
 
35.1
  

 Japan
  
 
27.2
  

 Malaysia
  
 
7.4
  

 Other
  
 
6.6
  

  13 


Table of Contents
We record foreign currency translation adjustments associated with other balance sheet
accounts. See “Nonoperating Income (Expense)” under the “Financial Review” Section on page 23 of the Annual Report which is incorporated in this document by reference. We maintain several cash accounts denominated in foreign
currencies, primarily in Euros and British Pounds Sterling. As we translate the foreign-denominated cash balances into U.S. dollars, the translated cash balance is adjusted upward or downward depending upon the foreign currency exchange movements.
The upward or downward adjustment is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency translation in our statements of income. As those cash accounts have increased, the upward or downward adjustments have increased. We recorded a net translation loss
of approximately $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 relating to the translation of foreign denominated balance sheet accounts, most of which were cash. The balance of the foreign-denominated cash accounts subject to risk of
translation gains or losses at December 31, 2011 was approximately $6.1 million, the majority of which is denominated in Euros and British Pounds Sterling.  We provide financing to our international operation in Europe through an intercompany loan that requires the operation to repay the financing in U.S. dollars. The functional currency of each operation is
the respective local currency. As we translate the foreign currency denominated financial statements into U.S. dollars, the translated balance of the financing (liability) is adjusted upward or downward to match the U.S. dollar obligation
(receivable) on our financial statements. The upward or downward adjustment is recorded as a gain or loss on foreign currency translation in other comprehensive income.  The net asset account balance subject to foreign currency exchange rates between the local currencies and the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2011 was $14.5 million. 
The following table presents the potential effect on income before income taxes of hypothetical shifts in the foreign currency exchange
rate between the local currencies and the U.S. dollar of plus or minus 100 basis points, 500 basis points and 1,000 basis points based on the net asset account balance of $14.5 million at December 31, 2011. 
 




























 
  
Effect of Basis Point Change
 

 
  
Increase in basis point of
 
  
Decrease in basis point of
 

 (in thousands)
  
100
 
  
500
 
  
1,000
 
  
100
 
 
500
 
 
1,000
 

 Effect on income before income taxes
  
$
  145
  
  
 
723
  
  
 
1,446
  
  
 
(145
) 
 
 
(723
) 
 
 
(1,446
) 
 The foreign currency risks associated with other currencies is not significant. 
Interest Rate Risk. We are also exposed to interest rate risk associated with the investing of available cash. We invest
available cash in conservative short-term instruments and are primarily subject to changes in the short-term interest rates. 
  14 


Table of Contents
The following table provides information about our debt obligations that are sensitive to
changes in interest rates. The table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is our reporting currency. The debt
obligation’s actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars (US) and Japanese YEN (YEN), as indicated in parentheses.   




























 At December 31, 2011
  
Expected maturity date
 

 Liabilities
  
    2012    
 
 
    2013    
 
 
    2014    
 
 
    2015    
 
  
    2016    
 
  
    TOTAL    
 

(US$ Equivalent in millions)
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Long-term Debt:
  



 



 



 



  



  




 Fixed Rate (US)
  
$
13.3
  
 
 
13.4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
26.7
  

 Average interest rate
  
 
1.50
% 
 
 
1.50
% 
 



 



  



  
 
1.50
% 









 Variable Rate (US)
  
$
168.0
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
168.0
  

 Average interest rate
  
 
0.87
% 
 



 



 



  



  
 
0.87
% 









 Variable Rate (YEN)
  
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25.7
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
$
25.7
  

 Average interest rate
  



 



 
 
0.96
% 
 



  



  
 
0.96
% 
  


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  The “Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited), Stock Price, Dividend Information” Section, which is set forth on page 70, and the “Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of
Income, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting,” which are set forth on pages 32 through 69 of the Annual Report are incorporated in this document by reference.   


Item 9.
Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures 
Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures. We have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this annual report as required by Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”). This evaluation was carried out under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer. Based on this evaluation, the chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that as of December 31,
2011, TSYS’ disclosure controls and procedures were designed and effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed by TSYS in reports that it files under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and were also designed and effective to ensure that the information required to be disclosed in the reports that TSYS files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to management, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” which is set forth on page 69 of the Annual Report, and “Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm,” which is set forth on page 68 of the Annual Report, are incorporated in this document by reference. 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. No change in our internal control over financial reporting occurred
during the fourth fiscal quarter covered by this annual report that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
 


Item 9B.
Other Information  None.
 PART III   


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  Information included under the following captions in our Proxy Statement is incorporated in this document by reference:   


 
•
 
 “PROPOSALS TO BE VOTED ON” – “PROPOSAL 1: ELECTION OF DIRECTORS,” 
 


 
•
 
 “EXECUTIVE OFFICERS,”   


 
•
 
 “SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE,” and 
 


 
•
 
 “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BOARD MATTERS” – “Committees of the Board.” 
We have a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all directors, officers and employees, including our principal executive
officer, our principal financial officer and our chief accounting officer. You can find our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics in the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.tsys.com under “Investor Relations” then
“Corporate Governance.” We will post any amendments to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the NYSE in the Corporate Governance section of our website.

  16 


Table of Contents


Item 11.
Executive Compensation 
Information included under the following captions in our Proxy Statement is incorporated in this document by reference: 
 


 
•
 
 “DIRECTOR COMPENSATION,”   


 
•
 
 “EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION” – “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee Report,” “Risk
Assessment of Compensation Programs” and “Compensation Tables and Narratives,” and   


 
•
 
 “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BOARD MATTERS” – “Committees of the Board” – “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
Insider Participation.”  The information included under the heading “Compensation Committee
Report” in our Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference; however, this information shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to
the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
Information pertaining to equity compensation plans is contained in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 51 of
the Annual Report and is incorporated in this document by reference.  Information included under the following captions in our
Proxy Statement is incorporated in this document by reference:   


 
•
 
 “STOCK OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS,” and 
 


 
•
 
 “PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDERS.”   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  Information included under the following captions in our Proxy Statement is incorporated in this document by reference:   


 
•
 
 “CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS,” and 
 


 
•
 
 “CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND BOARD MATTERS” – “Independence.” 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services  Information included under the following captions in our Proxy Statement is incorporated in this document by reference:   


 
•
 
 “AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT” – “KPMG LLP Fees and Services” (excluding the information under the main caption “AUDIT
COMMITTEE REPORT”); and “Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval.” 
  17 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  (a) 1. Financial Statements  The following
consolidated financial statements of TSYS are incorporated in this document by reference from pages 32 through 69 of the Annual Report.  Consolidated Balance Sheets - December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Consolidated Statements
of Income - Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows - Years Ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Consolidated Statements of Equity and Comprehensive Income - Years Ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. 
      2. Financial Statement Schedules 
The following report of independent registered public accounting firm and consolidated financial statement schedule of TSYS are included:
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts - Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. 
All other schedules are omitted because they are inapplicable or the required information is included in the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto.        3. Exhibits 
The following exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated to other documents previously filed with the SEC. Exhibits 10.6 through
10.40 pertain to executive compensation plans and arrangements. With the exception of those portions of the Annual Report and Proxy Statement that are expressly incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, such documents are not to be deemed filed
as part of this Form 10-K. 
  18 


Table of Contents






 Exhibit
Number
  
 Description




  3.1
  
Articles of Incorporation of TSYS, as amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 30, 2009.




  3.2
  
Bylaws of TSYS, as amended, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 28, 2009.




10.1
  
Credit Agreement of TSYS with Bank of America N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Royal Bank of Scotland plc, as Syndication Agent, and the other lenders named therein, incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 27, 2007.




10.2
  
Indemnification and Insurance Matters Agreement by and among Synovus Financial Corp. and TSYS, dated as of November 30, 2007, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of TSYS’
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2007.




10.3
  
Investment Agreement (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated March 1, 2010 by and between First National Bank of Omaha and TSYS, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 7, 2010.




10.4
  
Assignment of Investment Agreement dated April 1, 2010 between TSYS and Columbus Depot Equipment Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of TSYS, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.2 of TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 7, 2010.




10.5
  
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of FNMS Holding, LLC (excluding exhibits and schedules) dated April 1, 2010 by and between Columbus Depot Equipment Company,
First National Bank of Omaha, FN Merchant Partners, Inc. and FNMS Holding, LLC, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 7,
2010.



EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS




10.6
  
Total System Services, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
2001, as filed with the SEC on March 19, 2002.

  19 


Table of Contents






10.7
  
Amended and Restated Total System Services, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2010, as filed with the SEC on August 9, 2010.




10.8
  
Total System Services, Inc. 1992 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which was renamed the Total System Services, Inc. 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5
of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as filed with the SEC on March 18, 1993.




10.9
  
Amended and Restated Total System Services, Inc. Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, as filed with the SEC on August 7, 2008.




10.10
  
Wage Continuation Agreement of TSYS, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992, as filed with
the SEC on March 18, 1993.




10.11
  
Agreement in Connection With Personal Use of Company Aircraft, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2008, as filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009.




10.12
  
Split Dollar Insurance Agreement of TSYS, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, as
filed with the SEC on March 22, 1994.




10.13
  
Change of Control Agreement for executive officers of TSYS, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
31, 2007, as filed with the SEC on February 29, 2008.




10.14
  
Split Dollar Insurance Agreement and related Executive Benefit Substitution Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, as filed with the SEC on March 19, 2002.




10.15
  
Summary of Board of Directors Compensation.




10.16
  
Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Award Agreement for the Total System Services, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 1, 2005, as filed with the SEC on February 3, 2005.

  20 


Table of Contents






10.17
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement for stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan for grants made subsequent to January 17, 2006,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 17, 2006.




10.18
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2002 Long-Term Incentive Plan for grants made subsequent to January 17,
2006, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 17, 2006.




10.19
  
Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007, as filed with the SEC on
April 25, 2007.




10.20
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of TSYS’
Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007, as filed with the SEC on April 25, 2007.




10.21
  
Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2007.




10.22
  
Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, as
filed with the SEC on February 29, 2008.




10.23
  
Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Award Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 2, 2008.




10.24
  
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for restricted stock unit awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of
TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 2, 2008.

  21 


Table of Contents






10.25
  
Form of Revised Stock Option Agreement for stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of TSYS’
Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2008.




10.26
  
Form of Retention Restricted Stock Award Agreement for retention restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.3 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2008.




10.27
  
Form of Performance-Based Retention Restricted Stock Award Agreement for performance-based restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan,
incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2008.




10.28
  
Form of Revised Restricted Stock Award Agreement for restricted stock awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of
TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 2008.




10.29
  
Form of Amended and Revised Stock Option Agreement for stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of
TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 28, 2008.




10.30
  
Form of Performance Share Agreement for 2009 performance share awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 and 2008 Omnibus Plans, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38
of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009.




10.31
  
Form of Amended and Revised Stock Option Agreement for 2008 stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 28, 2008.




10.32
  
Form of Amended and Revised Stock Option Agreement for 2009 stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 and 2008 Omnibus Plans, incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.40 of TSYS’ Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, as filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009.




10.33
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement for 2010 stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of TSYS’
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 7, 2010.
  22 


Table of Contents






10.34
  
Form of Performance Share Agreement for 2010 performance share awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of
TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 7, 2010.




10.35
  
Form of Performance-Based Special Stock Option Agreement for performance-based stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.6 of TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 7, 2010.




10.36
  
Form of Non-Employee Director Fully Vested Stock Option Agreement for the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of TSYS’
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011.




10.37
  
Form of Non-Employee Director Fully Vested Share Award Agreement for the Total System Services, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of TSYS’
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011.




10.38
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement for 2011 stock option awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of TSYS’
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, as filed with the SEC on May 6, 2011.




10.39
  
Form of Performance Share Agreement for 2011 performance share awards under the Total System Services, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
TSYS’ Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, as filed with the SEC on May 6, 2011.




10.40
  
Form of Indemnification Agreement for directors and executive officers of TSYS, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of TSYS’ Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 25,
2007.




13.1
  
Certain specified pages of TSYS’ 2011 Annual Report to Shareholders which are incorporated herein by reference.

  23 


Table of Contents






21.1
  
Subsidiaries of Total System Services, Inc.




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.




24.1
  
Powers of Attorney contained on the signature pages of this 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.




31.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




99.1
  
Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Total System Services, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan for the year ended December 31, 2011 (to be filed as an amendment hereto within 120 days
of the end of the period covered by this report.)
 We agree to furnish the SEC, upon request, a copy of each instrument with respect to issues of long-term
debt. The principal amount of any individual instrument, which has not been previously filed, does not exceed ten percent of the total assets of TSYS and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors  Total System Services,
Inc.:  Under date of February 24, 2012, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets of Total System Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows, and equity and comprehensive income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, as contained in the December 31,
2011 annual report on Form 10-K. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related consolidated financial statement schedule in Schedule II. This financial statement schedule is the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.  In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.  /s/ KPMG LLP 
Atlanta, Georgia  February 24, 2012



Table of Contents
TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC. 
Schedule II
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (in thousands)   


















 
  
 
 
  
Additions
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
 
 
  
Changes in
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
Balance at
 
  
allowances, charges to
  
 
 
  
Balance at
 

 
  
beginning
 
  
expenses and changes
  
 
 
  
end
 

 
  
of period
 
  
to other accounts
  
Deductions
 
  
of period
 

 Year ended December 31, 2009:
  



  

  



  




 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
$
2,690
  
  
  980(1)
  
 
(2,054)(3)
  
  
$
1,616
  

 Provision for billing adjustments
  
$
5,313
  
  
5,011(1)
  
 
(5,623)(3)
  
  
$
4,701
  

 Transaction processing accruals - processing errors
  
$
5,417
  
  
4,056(2)
  
 
(3,989)(3)
  
  
$
5,484
  

 Year ended December 31, 2010:
  



  

  



  




 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
$
1,616
  
  
    500(1)
  
 
(134)(3)
  
  
$
1,982
  

 Provision for billing adjustments
  
$
4,701
  
  
(1,297)(1)
  
 
(844)(3)
  
  
$
2,560
  

 Transaction processing accruals - processing errors
  
$
5,484
  
  
  3,891(2)
  
 
(4,235)(3)
  
  
$
5,140
  

 Year ended December 31, 2011:
  



  

  



  




 Provision for doubtful accounts
  
$
1,982
  
  
 1,899(1)
  
 
(1,773)(3)
  
  
$
2,108
  

 Provision for billing adjustments
  
$
2,560
  
  
  (347)(1)
  
 
(176)(3)
  
  
$
2,037
  

 Transaction processing accruals - processing errors
  
$
5,140
  
  
 3,763(2)
  
 
(3,581)(3)
  
  
$
5,322
  
  


(1)
Amount reflected includes charges to (recoveries of) bad debt expense which are classified in selling, general and administrative expenses and the charges for billing
adjustment which are recorded against revenues. 


(2)
Amount reflected is the change in transaction processing accruals reflected in cost of services expenses. 


(3)
Accounts deemed to be uncollectible and written off during the year as it relates to bad debts. Amounts that relate to billing adjustments and transaction processing
accruals reflect actual billing adjustments and processing errors charged against the allowances. 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, Total System Services, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   











 

 
TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES, INC.


 

 
(Registrant)






Date: February 24, 2012
 

 
By:
 
 /s/ Philip W. Tomlinson


 

 

 
Philip W. Tomlinson,


 

 

 
Principal Executive Officer and


 

 

 
Chairman of the Board
 POWER OF ATTORNEY  KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Philip W. Tomlinson and M. Troy Woods and each of them, his true and lawful attorney(s)-in-fact and
agent(s), with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any or all amendments to this report and to file the same, with all exhibits and schedules thereto, and other
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorney(s)-in-fact and agent(s) full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and
about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney(s)-in-fact and agent(s), or their substitute(s), may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has
been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   










 /s/ Philip W. Tomlinson
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Philip W. Tomlinson,
 

 

 


 Principal Executive Officer
and Chairman of the Board
 

 

 







 /s/ M. Troy Woods
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

M. Troy Woods,
 

 

 


President and Director
 

 

 




Table of Contents










 /s/ James B. Lipham
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

James B. Lipham,
 

 

 


 Senior Executive Vice President
and Principal Financial Officer
 

 

 







 /s/ Dorenda K. Weaver
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Dorenda K. Weaver,
 

 

 


Chief Accounting Officer
 

 

 







 /s/ James H. Blanchard
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

James H. Blanchard,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Richard Y. Bradley
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Richard Y. Bradley,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Kriss Cloninger III
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Kriss Cloninger III,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Walter W. Driver, Jr.
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Walter W. Driver, Jr.,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Gardiner W. Garrard, Jr.
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Gardiner W. Garrard, Jr.,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Sidney E. Harris
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Sidney E. Harris,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Mason H. Lampton
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Mason H. Lampton,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 



Table of Contents










 /s/ H. Lynn Page
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

H. Lynn Page,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ W. Walter Miller, Jr.
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

W. Walter Miller, Jr.,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ John T. Turner
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

John T. Turner,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Richard W. Ussery
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Richard W. Ussery,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ James D. Yancey
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

James D. Yancey,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 







 /s/ Rebecca K. Yarbrough
 

 

 
Date: February 24, 2012

Rebecca K. Yarbrough,
 

 

 


Director
 

 

 





