
10-K
1
v305359_10k.htm
FORM 10-K






 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
_______________________
 
FORM 10-K
 
ANNUAL REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
 
Commission file number 0-14237
 
FIRST UNITED CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified
in its charter)
 


Maryland
 
52-1380770

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

 
 
 

19 South Second Street, Oakland, Maryland
 
21550-0009

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (800)
470-4356
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of Each Class:
 
Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered:

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market

 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes £ No R
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes £ No R
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes R No £
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes R
No £ (Not Applicable)
 
Indicate by check mark
if disclosures of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated
by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. R
 
Indicate by check mark
whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
(See definition of “accelerated filer”, “large accelerated filer”, and “smaller reporting company”
in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). (check one): Large accelerated filer £	Accelerated
filer £ 	Non-accelerated filer £	Smaller
reporting company R
 
Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes £
No R
 
The aggregate market
value of the registrant’s outstanding voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2011: $27,627,127.
 
The number of shares
of the registrant’s common stock outstanding as of February 29, 2012: 6,182,757
 
Documents Incorporated by Reference
 
Portions of the registrant’s
definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 

 
 

 
First United Corporation
Table of Contents
 


PART I
 
 

 
 
 

ITEM 1.
Business
3

 
 
 

ITEM 1A.
Risk Factors
13

 
 
 

ITEM 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments
22

 
 
 

ITEM 2.
Properties
22

 
 
 

ITEM 3.
Legal Proceedings
22

 
 
 

ITEM 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
22

 
 
 

PART II
 
 

 
 
 

ITEM 5.
Market for the Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
23

 
 
 

ITEM 6.
Selected Financial Data
24

 
 
 

ITEM 7.
Management's Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operations
25

 
 
 

ITEM 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
50

 
 
 

ITEM 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
50

 
 
 

ITEM 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
99

 
 
 

ITEM 9A.
Controls and Procedures
99

 
 
 

ITEM 9B.
Other Information
101

 
 
 

PART III
 
 

 
 
 

ITEM 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
101

 
 
 

ITEM 11.
Executive Compensation
101

 
 
 

ITEM 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
102

 
 
 

ITEM 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
102

 
 
 

ITEM 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
102

 
 
 

PART IV
 
 

 
 
 

ITEM 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
103

 
 
 

SIGNATURES
103

 
 

EXHIBITS
105

 

[2]
 

 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Annual Report
on Form 10-K of First United Corporation (“we”, “our” or “us” on a consolidated basis) contains
forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include
projections, predictions, expectations or statements as to beliefs or future events or results or refer to other matters that are
not historical facts. Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could
cause the actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements. The forward-looking statements contained
in this annual report are based on various factors and were derived using numerous assumptions. In some cases, you can identify
these forward-looking statements by words like “may”, “will”, “should”, “expect”,
“plan”, “anticipate”, intend”, “believe”, “estimate”, “predict”,
“potential”, or “continue” or the negative of those words and other comparable words. You should be aware
that those statements reflect only our predictions. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties should materialize, or if underlying
assumptions should prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated
or projected. You should bear this in mind when reading this annual report and not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to:
 

·the risk that the weak national and local economies and depressed real estate and credit markets
caused by the recent global recession will continue to decrease the demand for loan, deposit and other financial services and/or
increase loan delinquencies and defaults;
 

·changes in market rates and prices may adversely impact the value of securities, loans, deposits
and other financial instruments and the interest rate sensitivity of our balance sheet;
 

·our liquidity requirements could be adversely affected by changes in our assets and liabilities;
 

·the effect of legislative or regulatory developments, including changes in laws concerning taxes,
banking, securities, insurance and other aspects of the financial services industry;
 

·competitive factors among financial services organizations, including product and pricing pressures
and our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified banking professionals;
 

·the effect of changes in accounting policies and practices, as may be adopted by the Financial
Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board and other regulatory agencies; and
 

·the effect of fiscal and governmental policies of the United States federal government.
 
You should also consider
carefully the Risk Factors contained in Item 1A of Part I of this annual report, which address additional factors that could cause
our actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements and could materially and adversely affect our
business, operating results and financial condition. The risks discussed in this annual report are factors that, individually or
in the aggregate, management believes could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider such
disclosures to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.
 
The forward-looking
statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and, except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we
undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which the
statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In addition, we cannot assess the impact of each factor
on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from
those contained in any forward-looking statements.
  
ITEM
1.	BUSINESS
 
General
 
First United Corporation
is a Maryland corporation chartered in 1985 and a financial holding company registered under the federal Bank Holding Company Act
of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). First United Corporation’s primary business is serving as the parent company
of First United Bank & Trust, a Maryland trust company (the “Bank”), First
 


[3]
 


 
United
Statutory Trust I (“Trust I”) and First United Statutory Trust II (“Trust II”), both Connecticut statutory
business trusts, and First United Statutory Trust III, a Delaware statutory business trust (“Trust III” and together
with Trust I and Trust II, the “Trusts”). The Trusts were formed for the purpose of selling trust preferred securities
that qualified as Tier 1 capital. First United Corporation is also the parent company of First United Insurance Group, LLC, a
Maryland limited liability company (the “Insurance Group”) that, through the close of business on December 31, 2011,
operated as a full service insurance provider under Maryland law. Effective on January 1, 2012, the Insurance Group sold substantially
all of its assets, net of cash, and is no longer an active subsidiary. The operations of, and results for, the Insurance Group
are discussed in this Annual Report.
 
The Bank has three
wholly-owned subsidiaries: OakFirst Loan Center, Inc., a West Virginia finance company; OakFirst Loan Center, LLC, a Maryland finance
company (collectively, the “OakFirst Loan Centers”), and First OREO Trust, a Maryland statutory trust formed for the
purposes of servicing and disposing of the real estate that the Bank acquires through foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure.
The Bank owns a majority interest in Cumberland Liquidation Trust, a Maryland statutory trust formed for the purposes of servicing
and disposing of real estate that secured a loan made by another bank and in which the Bank held a participation interest. The
Bank also owns 99.9% of the limited partnership interests in Liberty Mews Limited Partnership, a Maryland limited partnership formed
for the purpose of acquiring, developing and operating low-income housing units in Garrett County, Maryland.
 
At December 31, 2011,
we had total assets of approximately $1.39 billion, net loans of approximately $919 million, and deposits of approximately $1.03
billion. Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2011 was approximately $96.7 million.
 
First United Corporation
maintains an Internet website at www.mybank4.com on which it makes available, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to the foregoing as soon as reasonably practicable
after these reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
 
Banking Products and Services 
 
The Bank operates 28
banking offices, one call center and 31 Automated Teller Machines (“ATMs”) in Allegany County, Frederick County, Garrett
County, and Washington County in Maryland, and in Berkeley County, Mineral County, Hardy County, and Monongalia County in West
Virginia. The Bank is an independent community bank providing a complete range of retail and commercial banking services to businesses
and individuals in its market areas. Services offered are essentially the same as those offered by the regional institutions that
compete with the Bank and include checking, savings, money market deposit accounts, and certificates of deposit, business loans,
personal loans, mortgage loans, lines of credit, and consumer-oriented retirement accounts including individual retirement accounts
(“IRAs”) and employee benefit accounts. In addition, the Bank provides full brokerage services through a networking
arrangement with PrimeVest Financial Services, Inc., a full service broker-dealer. The Bank also provides safe deposit and night
depository facilities, and a complete line of insurance products and trust services. The Bank’s deposits are insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”).
 
Lending Activities—
Our lending activities are conducted through the Bank. Previously, we also made certain consumer loans through the OakFirst Loan
Centers. During 2010, management decided to wind down the OakFirst Loan Centers and now their sole activity is servicing existing
loans.
 
The Bank’s commercial
loans are primarily secured by real estate, commercial equipment, vehicles or other assets of the borrower. Repayment is often
dependent on the successful business operations of the borrower and may be affected by adverse conditions in the local economy
or real estate market. The financial condition and cash flow of commercial borrowers is therefore carefully analyzed during the
loan approval process, and continues to be monitored throughout the duration of the loan by obtaining business financial statements,
personal financial statements and income tax returns. The frequency of this ongoing analysis depends upon the size and complexity
of the credit and collateral that secures the loan. It is also the Bank’s general policy to obtain personal guarantees from
the principals of the commercial loan borrowers.
 
Commercial real estate
(“CRE”) loans are primarily those secured by land for residential and commercial development, agricultural purpose
properties, service industry buildings such as restaurants and motels, retail buildings and general purpose business space. The
Bank attempts to mitigate the risks associated with these loans through low loan to value ratio standards, thorough financial analyses,
and management’s knowledge of the local economy in which the Bank lends.
 


[4]
 


 

The risk of loss associated
with CRE construction lending is controlled through conservative underwriting procedures such as loan to value ratios of 80% or
less, obtaining additional collateral when prudent, and closely monitoring construction projects to control disbursement of funds
on loans.
 
The Bank’s residential
mortgage portfolio is distributed between variable and fixed rate loans. Many loans are booked at fixed rates in order to meet
the Bank’s requirements under the Community Reinvestment Act. Other fixed rate residential mortgage loans are originated
in a brokering capacity on behalf of other financial institutions, for which the Bank receives a fee. As with any consumer loan,
repayment is dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, which can be adversely impacted by job loss, divorce,
illness, or personal bankruptcy. Residential mortgage loans exceeding an internal loan-to-value ratio require private
mortgage insurance. Title insurance protecting the Bank’s lien priority, as well as fire and casualty insurance, is also
required.
 
Home equity lines of
credit, included within the residential mortgage portfolio, are secured by the borrower’s home and can be drawn on at the
discretion of the borrower. These lines of credit are at variable interest rates.
 
The Bank also provides
residential real estate construction loans to builders and individuals for single family dwellings. Residential construction loans
are usually granted based upon “as completed” appraisals and are secured by the property under construction. Site inspections
are performed to determine pre-specified stages of completion before loan proceeds are disbursed. These loans typically have maturities
of six to 12 months and may have a fixed or variable rate. Permanent financing for individuals offered by the Bank includes fixed
and variable rate loans with three or five year adjustable rate mortgages.
 
A variety of other
consumer loans are also offered to customers, including indirect and direct auto loans, and other secured and unsecured lines of
credit and term loans. Careful analysis of an applicant’s creditworthiness is performed before granting credit, and on-going
monitoring of loans outstanding is performed in an effort to minimize risk of loss by identifying problem loans early.
 
An allowance for loan
losses is maintained to provide for anticipated losses from our lending activities. A complete discussion of the factors considered
in determination of the allowance for loan losses is included in Item 7 of Part II of this report.
 
Deposit Activities—
The Bank offers a full array of deposit products including checking, savings and money market accounts, regular and IRA
certificates of deposit, Christmas Savings accounts, College Savings accounts, and Health Savings accounts. The Bank also offers
the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service®,
or CDARS®, program to municipalities, businesses, and
consumers through which the Bank provides access to multi-million-dollar certificates of deposit that are FDIC-insured. In addition,
we offer our commercial customers packages which include Treasury Management, Cash Sweep and various checking opportunities.
 
Information about our
income from and assets related to our banking business may be found in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition and the
Consolidated Statements of Income and the related notes thereto included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report.
 
Trust Services—The
Bank’s Trust Department offers a full range of trust services, including personal trust, investment agency accounts, charitable
trusts, retirement accounts including IRA roll-overs, 401(k) accounts and defined benefit plans, estate administration and estate
planning.
 
At December 31, 2011
and 2010, the total market value of assets under the supervision of the Bank’s Trust Department was approximately $595 million
and $590 million, respectively. Trust Department revenues for these years may be found in the Consolidated Statements of Income
under the heading “Other operating income”, which is contained in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report.
 
Insurance Activities—Through
December 31, 2011, we offered a full range of insurance products and services to customers in our market areas through the Insurance
Group. Information about income from insurance activities for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 may be found under
“Other Operating Income” in the Consolidated Statements of Income included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report.
The Insurance Group sold substantially all of its assets, net of cash, effective on January 1, 2012. More information about the
sale can be found in Item 7 – Recent Developments.
 

[5]
 


 
COMPETITION
 
The banking business,
in all of its phases, is highly competitive. Within our market areas, we compete with commercial banks, (including local banks
and branches or affiliates of other larger banks), savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits, with
consumer finance companies for loans, with insurance companies and their agents for insurance products, and with other financial
institutions for various types of products and services. There is also competition for commercial and retail banking business from
banks and financial institutions located outside our market areas and on the internet.
 
The primary factors
in competing for deposits are interest rates, personalized services, the quality and range of financial services, convenience of
office locations and office hours. The primary factors in competing for loans are interest rates, loan origination fees, the quality
and range of lending services and personalized services.
 
To compete with other
financial services providers, we rely principally upon local promotional activities, personal relationships established by officers,
directors and employees with its customers, and specialized services tailored to meet its customers’ needs. In those instances
in which we are unable to accommodate a customer’s needs, we attempt to arrange for those services to be provided by other
financial services providers with which we have a relationship.
 
The following table
sets forth deposit data for the Maryland and West Virginia Counties in which the Bank maintains offices as of June 30, 2011, the
most recent date for which comparative information is available.
 


  
Offices  (in Market)  
Deposits (in thousands)  
Market
Share 

Allegany County, Maryland: 
    
    
   

Susquehanna Bank 
 5  
$296,570  
 43.98%

Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company 
 6  
 158,563  
 23.52%

First United Bank & Trust 
 4  
 124,309  
 18.44%

PNC Bank NA 
 3  
 50,338  
 7.47%

Standard Bank 
 2  
 44,515  
 6.60%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report
 

[6]
 



 


Frederick County, Maryland: 
    
    
   

PNC Bank NA 
 21  
 1,029,381  
 27.90%

Branch Banking & Trust Co. 
 12  
 687,889  
 18.64%

Bank Of America NA 
 6  
 299,746  
 8.12%

Frederick County Bank 
 4  
 263,879  
 7.15%

Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company 
 6  
 238,789  
 6.47%

Woodsboro Bank 
 7  
 184,112  
 4.99%

Capital One NA 
 6  
 183,748  
 4.98%

First United Bank & Trust 
 4  
 142,891  
 3.87%

SunTrust Bank 
 3  
 128,130  
 3.47%

Middletown Valley Bank 
 4  
 120,307  
 3.26%

BlueRidge Bank 
 1  
 119,336  
 3.23%

Wells Fargo Bank NA 
 1  
 100,331  
 2.72%

Sandy Spring Bank 
 4  
 88,558  
 2.40%

Damascus Community Bank 
 2  
 31,286  
 0.85%

Columbia Bank 
 2  
 26,867  
 0.73%

Sovereign Bank 
 1  
 24,510  
 0.66%

Harvest Bank of Maryland 
 1  
 19,795  
 0.54%

WoodForest National Bank 
 1  
 197  
 0.01%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report 
 


Garrett County, Maryland: 
    
    
   

First United Bank & Trust 
 6  
 442,589  
 67.32%

Susquehanna Bank 
 2  
 97,470  
 14.82%

Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company 
 5  
 83,395  
 12.68%

Clear Mountain Bank 
 1  
 26,677  
 4.06%

Miners & Merchants Bank 
 1  
 7,353  
 1.12%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report 
 


Washington County, Maryland: 
    
    
   

Susquehanna Bank 
 10  
 526,986  
 26.35%

Columbia Bank 
 11  
 424,506  
 21.23%

Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company 
 11  
 357,603  
 17.88%

Centra Bank, Inc. 
 2  
 152,861  
 7.64%

PNC Bank NA 
 5  
 148,780  
 7.44%

Sovereign Bank 
 4  
 111,103  
 5.56%

First United Bank & Trust 
 3  
 86,581  
 4.33%

Graystone Tower Bank 
 3  
 77,695  
 3.89%

Citizens National Bank of Berkeley Springs 
 1  
 38,840  
 1.94%

Capital One NA 
 2  
 35,024  
 1.75%

Orrstown Bank 
 1  
 26,026  
 1.30%

Jefferson Security Bank 
 1  
 7,932  
 0.40%

Middletown Valley Bank 
 1  
 5,726  
 0.29%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report
 

[7]
 


 


Berkeley County, West Virginia: 
    
    
   

Branch Banking & Trust Company 
 5  
 337,309  
 30.10%

Centra Bank, Inc. 
 4  
 193,694  
 17.28%

First United Bank & Trust 
 5  
 133,671  
 11.93%

City National Bank of West Virginia 
 4  
 122,168  
 10.90%

Susquehanna Bank 
 3  
 96,589  
 8.62%

Jefferson Security Bank 
 2  
 67,322  
 6.01%

MVB Bank Inc. 
 1  
 61,112  
 5.45%

Bank of Charles Town 
 2  
 50,217  
 4.48%

Citizens National Bank of Berkeley Springs 
 3  
 37,863  
 3.38%

Summit Community Bank 
 1  
 14,010  
 1.25%

Woodforest National Bank 
 1  
 714  
 0.06%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report 
 


Hardy County, West Virginia: 
    
    
   

Summit Community Bank, Inc. 
 4  
 489,852  
 73.84%

Capon Valley Bank 
 3  
 117,307  
 17.68%

Pendleton Community Bank, Inc. 
 1  
 25,686  
 3.87%

First United Bank & Trust 
 1  
 18,965  
 2.86%

Grant County Bank 
 1  
 11,622  
 1.75%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report 
 


Mineral County, West Virginia: 
    
    
   

First United Bank & Trust 
 2  
 75,638  
 34.42%

Branch Banking & Trust Company 
 2  
 70,921  
 32.27%

Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company 
 2  
 39,864  
 18.14%

Grant County Bank 
 1  
 33,358  
 15.18%

 
Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report
 


Monongalia County, West Virginia: 
    
    
   

Centra Bank, Inc. 
 5  
 434,159  
 24.28%

Branch Banking & Trust Company 
 5  
 418,575  
 23.41%

Huntington National Bank 
 7  
 381,424  
 21.33%

United Bank 
 4  
 170,675  
 9.54%

Clear Mountain Bank 
 5  
 151,061  
 8.45%

Wesbanco Bank, Inc. 
 5  
 92,490  
 5.17%

First United Bank & Trust 
 3  
 83,467  
 4.67%

First Exchange Bank 
 2  
 29,617  
 1.66%

Citizens Bank of Morgantown, Inc. 
 1  
 21,376  
 1.20%

PNC Bank NA 
 1  
 5,380  
 0.30%

 

Source: FDIC Deposit
Market Share Report
 
For further information
about competition in our market areas, see the Risk Factor entitled “We operate in a competitive environment, and our
inability to effectively compete could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations”
in Item 1A of Part I of this annual report.
 
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
 
The following is a
summary of the material regulations and policies applicable to First United Corporation and its subsidiaries and is not intended
to be a comprehensive discussion. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may have a material effect on our business.
 


[8]
 

 

General
 
First United Corporation
is a financial holding company registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “FRB”) under
the BHC Act and, as such, is subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations
of the FRB.
 
The Bank is a Maryland
trust company subject to the banking laws of Maryland and to regulation by the Commissioner of Financial Regulation of Maryland
(the “Maryland Commissioner”), who is required by statute to make at least one examination in each calendar year (or
at 18-month intervals if the Maryland Commissioner determines that an examination is unnecessary in a particular calendar year).
The Bank also has offices in West Virginia, and the operations of these offices are subject to West Virginia laws and to supervision
and examination by the West Virginia Division of Banking. As a member of the FDIC, the Bank is also subject to certain provisions
of federal law and regulations regarding deposit insurance and activities of insured state-chartered banks, including those that
require examination by the FDIC. In addition to the foregoing, there are a myriad of other federal and state laws and regulations
that affect, impact or govern the business of banking, including consumer lending, deposit-taking, and trust operations.
 
All non-bank subsidiaries
of First United Corporation are subject to examination by the FRB, and, as affiliates of the Bank, are subject to examination by
the FDIC and the Maryland Commissioner. In addition, OakFirst Loan Center, Inc. is subject to licensing and regulation by the West
Virginia Division of Banking, OakFirst Loan Center, LLC is subject to licensing and regulation by the Maryland Commissioner, and
the Insurance Group was subject to licensing and regulation by various state insurance authorities. Retail sales of insurance products
by these insurance affiliates are also subject to the requirements of the Interagency Statement on Retail Sales of Nondeposit Investment
Products promulgated in 1994 by the FDIC, the FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Office of Thrift Supervision.
 
Regulation of Financial Holding Companies
 
In November 1999, the
federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB Act”) was signed into law. The GLB Act revised the BHC Act and repealed the
affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933, which, taken together, limited the securities, insurance and other non-banking
activities of any company that controls an FDIC insured financial institution. Under the GLB Act, a bank holding company can elect,
subject to certain qualifications, to become a “financial holding company.” The GLB Act provides that a financial holding
company may engage in a full range of financial activities, including insurance and securities sales and underwriting activities,
and real estate development, with new expedited notice procedures. Maryland law generally permits state-chartered banks, including
the Bank, to engage in the same activities, directly or through an affiliate, as national banking associations. The GLB Act permits
certain qualified national banking associations to form financial subsidiaries, which have broad authority to engage in all financial
activities except insurance underwriting, insurance investments, real estate investment or development, or merchant banking. Thus,
the GLB Act has the effect of broadening the permitted activities of First United Corporation and the Bank.
 
First United Corporation
and its affiliates are subject to the provisions of Section 23A and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. Section 23A limits
the amount of loans or extensions of credit to, and investments in, First United Corporation and its non-bank affiliates by the
Bank. Section 23B requires that transactions between the Bank and First United Corporation and its non-bank affiliates be on terms
and under circumstances that are substantially the same as with non-affiliates.
 
Under FRB policy, First
United Corporation is expected to act as a source of strength to the Bank, and the FRB may charge First United Corporation with
engaging in unsafe and unsound practices for failure to commit resources to a subsidiary bank when required. In addition, under
the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), depository institutions insured
by the FDIC can be held liable for any losses incurred by, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection
with (i) the default of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution or (ii) any assistance provided by the FDIC to
a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution in danger of default. Accordingly, in the event that any insured subsidiary
of First United Corporation causes a loss to the FDIC, other insured subsidiaries of the Corporation could be required to compensate
the FDIC by reimbursing it for the estimated amount of such loss. Such cross guaranty liabilities generally are superior in priority
to obligations of a financial institution to its shareholders and obligations to other affiliates.
 

[9]
 


 
Federal Banking Regulation
 
Federal banking regulators,
such as the FRB and the FDIC, may prohibit the institutions over which they have supervisory authority from engaging in activities
or investments that the agencies believe are unsafe or unsound banking practices. Federal banking regulators have extensive enforcement
authority over the institutions they regulate to prohibit or correct activities that violate law, regulation or a regulatory agreement
or which are deemed to be unsafe or unsound practices. Enforcement actions may include the appointment of a conservator or receiver,
the issuance of a cease and desist order, the termination of deposit insurance, the imposition of civil money penalties on the
institution, its directors, officers, employees and institution-affiliated parties, the issuance of directives to increase capital,
the issuance of formal and informal agreements, the removal of or restrictions on directors, officers, employees and institution-affiliated
parties, and the enforcement of any such mechanisms through restraining orders or other court actions.
 
The Bank is subject
to certain restrictions on extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders or any related interest
of such persons, which generally require that such credit extensions be made on substantially the same terms as those available
to persons who are not related to the Bank and not involve more than the normal risk of repayment. Other laws tie the maximum amount
that may be loaned to any one customer and its related interests to capital levels.
 
As part of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), each federal banking regulator adopted non-capital
safety and soundness standards for institutions under its authority. These standards include internal controls, information systems
and internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, and compensation, fees
and benefits. An institution that fails to meet those standards may be required by the agency to develop a plan acceptable to meet
the standards. Failure to submit or implement such a plan may subject the institution to regulatory sanctions. We believe that
the Bank meets substantially all standards that have been adopted. FDICIA also imposes capital standards on insured depository
institutions.
 
The Community Reinvestment
Act (“CRA”) requires the FDIC, in connection with its examination of financial institutions within its jurisdiction,
to evaluate the record of those financial institutions in meeting the credit needs of their communities, including low and moderate
income neighborhoods, consistent with principles of safe and sound banking practices. These factors are also considered by all
regulatory agencies in evaluating mergers, acquisitions and applications to open a branch or facility. As of the date of its most
recent examination report, the Bank has a CRA rating of “Satisfactory”.
 
On October 14, 2008,
the FDIC announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the “TLGP”) to decrease the cost of bank
funding and, hopefully, normalize lending. This program is comprised of two components. The first component guarantees senior unsecured
debt issued between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. The guarantee will remain in effect until June 30, 2012 for such debts
that mature beyond June 30, 2009. The second component, called the Transaction Accounts Guarantee Program (“TAG”),
provided full coverage for non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts, IOLTAs, and NOW accounts with interest rates of 0.25%
or less, regardless of account balance, initially until December 31, 2009. The TAG program expired on December 31, 2010. We elected
to participate in both programs and paid additional FDIC premiums in 2010 and 2009 as a result. See the section below entitled
“Deposit Insurance”.
 
On July 21, 2010, President
Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which made sweeping changes to the financial regulatory
landscape and will impact all financial institutions, including First United Corporation and the Bank.
 
On November 9, 2010,
the FDIC issued a final rule to implement Section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Act that provides temporary unlimited deposit insurance
coverage for non-interest bearing transaction accounts at all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The coverage is automatic for
all FDIC-insured institutions and does not include an opt out option. The separate coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction
accounts became effective on December 31, 2010 and terminates on December 31, 2012.
 
These new laws, regulations
and regulatory actions will cause our regulatory expenses to increase. Additionally, due in part to numerous bank failures throughout
the country since 2008, the FDIC imposed an emergency insurance assessment to help restore the Deposit Insurance Fund and further
required insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based deposit assessments through 2012 on December
30, 2009. Given the current state of the national economy, there can be no assurance that the FDIC will not impose future emergency
assessments or further revise 
 


[10]
 

 
its
rate structure.
  
The Dodd-Frank Act’s
significant regulatory changes include the creation of a new financial consumer protection agency, known as the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection (the “Consumer Protection Bureau”), that is empowered to promulgate new consumer protection regulations
and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer compliance. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt stricter
consumer protection laws and states’ attorneys general may enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. The Dodd-Frank
Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios
on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust preferred securities issuances from counting as Tier 1 capital. These developments
may limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions,
which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions.
 
The Dodd-Frank Act
will increase our regulatory compliance burden and costs and may restrict the financial products and services we offer to our customers.
In particular, the Dodd-Frank Act will require us to invest significant management attention and resources so that we can evaluate
the impact of this law and make any necessary changes to our product offerings and operations.
 
Capital Requirements
 
FDICIA established
a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. Under this system, the federal banking
regulators are required to rate supervised institutions on the basis of five capital categories: “well capitalized,”
“adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized,” and “critically
undercapitalized;” and to take certain mandatory actions (and are authorized to take other discretionary actions) with respect
to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the actions will depend upon the category in which the
institution is placed. A depository institution is “well capitalized” if it has a total risk based capital ratio of
10% or greater, a Tier 1 risk based capital ratio of 6% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to
any order, regulatory agreement, or written directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. An
“adequately capitalized” institution is defined as one that has a total risk based capital ratio of 8% or greater,
a Tier 1 risk based capital ratio of 4% or greater and a leverage ratio of 4% or greater (or 3% or greater in the case of a bank
with a composite CAMEL rating of 1).
 
FDICIA generally prohibits
a depository institution from making any capital distribution, including the payment of cash dividends, or paying a management
fee to its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions
are subject to growth limitations and are required to submit capital restoration plans. For a capital restoration plan to be acceptable,
the depository institution’s parent holding company must guarantee (subject to certain limitations) that the institution
will comply with such capital restoration plan.
 
Significantly undercapitalized
depository institutions may be subject to a number of other requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient
voting stock to become adequately capitalized and requirements to reduce total assets and stop accepting deposits from correspondent
banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or conservator; generally
within 90 days of the date such institution is determined to be critically undercapitalized.
 
Further information
about our capital resources is provided in Item 7 of Part II of this annual report under the heading “Capital Resources”.
Information about the capital ratios of First United Corporation and of the Bank as of December 31, 2011 is set forth in Note 4
to our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report (the “Consolidated
Financial Statements”).
 
Deposit Insurance
 
The deposits of the
Bank are insured to a maximum of $250,000 per depositor through the Deposit Insurance Fund, which is administered by the FDIC,
and the Bank is required to pay quarterly deposit insurance premium assessments to the FDIC. The Deposit Insurance Fund was created
pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the “Reform Act”). This law (i) required the then-existing
$100,000 deposit insurance coverage to be indexed for inflation (with adjustments every five years, commencing January 1, 2011),
and (ii) increased the deposit insurance coverage for retirement accounts to $250,000 per participant, subject to adjustment for
inflation. Effective October 3, 2008, however, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) was enacted
and, among other things, temporarily raised
 


[11]
 

  
the
basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. EESA initially contemplated that the
coverage limit would return to $100,000 after December 31, 2009, but the expiration date has since been extended to December 31,
2013. The coverage for retirement accounts did not change and remains at $250,000. On July 21, 2010, as part of the Dodd-Frank
Act, the current standard maximum deposit insurance amount was permanently raised to $250,000.
  
The Reform Act also
gave the FDIC greater latitude in setting the assessment rates for insured depository institutions which could be used to impose
minimum assessments. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC imposed an emergency insurance assessment of five basis points in an effort to restore
the Deposit Insurance Fund to an acceptable level. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring insured depository
institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based deposit assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of
2010, 2011, and 2012, on December 30, 2009, along with each institution’s risk based deposit insurance assessment for the
third quarter of 2009. It was also announced that the assessment rate would increase by 3 basis points effective January 1, 2011.
The prepayment is accounted for as a prepaid expense and is amortized quarterly. The prepaid assessment qualifies for a zero risk
weight under the risk-based capital requirements. The Bank expensed $2.4 million and $4.0 million in FDIC premiums for 2011 and
2010, respectively. In December 2009, the Bank prepaid approximately $11 million in FDIC premiums and the balance at December 31,
2011 was approximately $5 million.
 
USA PATRIOT ACT
 
Congress adopted the
USA PATRIOT Act (the “Patriot Act”) on October 26, 2001 in response to the terrorist attacks that occurred on September
11, 2001. Under the Patriot Act, certain financial institutions, including banks, are required to maintain and prepare additional
records and reports that are designed to assist the government’s efforts to combat terrorism. The Patriot Act includes sweeping
anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws that require additional regulations, including, among other things, standards
for verifying client identification when opening an account and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators
and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering.
 
Federal Securities Law
 
The shares of common
stock of First United Corporation are registered with the SEC under Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the “Exchange Act”), and listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. First United Corporation is subject to information
reporting requirements, proxy solicitation requirements, insider trading restrictions and other requirements of the Exchange Act,
including the requirements imposed under the federal Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Among other things, loans to and other transactions
with insiders are subject to restrictions and heightened disclosure, directors and certain committees of the Board must satisfy
certain independence requirements, and First United Corporation must comply with certain enhanced corporate governance requirements.
 
Governmental Monetary and Credit Policies and Economic Controls
 
The earnings and growth
of the banking industry and ultimately of the Bank are affected by the monetary and credit policies of governmental authorities,
including the FRB. An important function of the FRB is to regulate the national supply of bank credit in order to control recessionary
and inflationary pressures. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the FRB to implement these objectives are open market
operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the federal funds rate, changes in the discount rate of member bank borrowings,
and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall
growth of bank loans, investments and deposits and may also affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The monetary
policies of the FRB authorities have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are
expected to continue to have such an effect in the future. In view of changing conditions in the national economy and in the money
markets, as well as the effect of actions by monetary and fiscal authorities, including the FRB, no prediction can be made as to
possible future changes in interest rates, deposit levels, loan demand or their effect on our businesses and earnings.
 
SEASONALITY
 
Management does not
believe that our business activities are seasonal in nature. Deposit, loan, and insurance demand may vary depending on local and
national economic conditions, but management believes that any variation will not have a material impact on our planning or policy-making
strategies.
 

[12]
 


 
EMPLOYEES
 
At December 31, 2011,
we employed 429 individuals, of whom 341 were full-time employees.
 
ITEM
1A.	RISK FACTORS
 
The significant risks
and uncertainties related to us, our business and our securities of which we are aware are discussed below. You should carefully
consider these risks and uncertainties before making investment decisions in respect of our securities. Any of these factors could
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects and could negatively impact
the market price of our securities. If any of these risks materialize, you could lose all or part of your investment in First United
Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also
impair our business operations. You should also consider the other information contained in this annual report, including our financial
statements and the related notes, before making investment decisions in respect of our securities.
 
Risks Relating to First United Corporation
and its Affiliates
 
First United Corporation’s future
success depends on the successful growth of its subsidiaries.
 
First United Corporation’s
primary business activity for the foreseeable future will be to act as the holding company of the Bank and its other direct and
indirect subsidiaries. Therefore, First United Corporation’s future profitability will depend on the success and growth of
these subsidiaries. In the future, part of our growth may come from buying other banks and buying or establishing other companies.
Such entities may not be profitable after they are purchased or established, and they may lose money, particularly at first. A
new bank or company may bring with it unexpected liabilities, bad loans, or bad employee relations, or the new bank or company
may lose customers.
 
Interest rates and other economic conditions
will impact our results of operations.
 
Our results of operations
may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values,
rapid changes in interest rates and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is in part a
function of the spread between the interest rates earned on assets and the interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing
liabilities (i.e., net interest income), including advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (the “FHLB”).
Interest rate risk arises from mismatches (i.e., the interest sensitivity gap) between the dollar amount of repricing or
maturing assets and liabilities. If more assets reprice or mature than liabilities during a falling interest rate environment,
then our earnings could be negatively impacted. Conversely, if more liabilities reprice or mature than assets during a rising interest
rate environment, then our earnings could be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable.
There can be no assurance that our attempts to structure our asset and liability management strategies to mitigate the impact on
net interest income of changes in market interest rates will be successful in the event of such changes.
 
The majority of our business is concentrated
in Maryland and West Virginia, much of which involves real estate lending, so a decline in the real estate and credit markets could
materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 
 
Most of the Bank’s
loans are made to borrowers located in Western Maryland and Northeastern West Virginia, and many of these loans, including construction
and land development loans, are secured by real estate. Approximately 15%, or $143 million, of total loans are real estate acquisition
construction and development projects that are secured by real estate. Accordingly, a decline in local economic conditions would
likely have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations, and the impact on us would likely be greater
than the impact felt by larger financial institutions whose loan portfolios are geographically diverse. We cannot guarantee that
any risk management practices we implement to address our geographic and loan concentrations will be effective to prevent losses
relating to our loan portfolio.
  
In point of fact, the
national and local economies were significantly and adversely impacted by the banking crisis and resulting economic recession that
began around 2008, and these conditions have caused, and continue to cause, a host of challenges for financial institutions, including
the Bank. For example, these conditions have made it more difficult for real estate owners and owners of loans secured by real
estate to sell their assets at desirable times and prices. Not only has
 


[13]
 

  
this
impacted the demand for credit to finance the acquisition and development of real estate, but it has also impaired the ability
of banks, including the Bank, to sell real estate acquired through foreclosure. In the case of real estate acquisition, construction
and development projects that we have financed, these challenging economic conditions have caused some of our borrowers to default
on their loans. Because of the deterioration in the market values of real estate collateral caused by the recession, banks, including
the Bank, have been unable to recover the full amount due under their loans when forced to foreclose on and sell real estate collateral.
As a result, we have realized significant impairments and losses in our loan portfolio, which have materially and adversely impacted
our financial condition and results of operations. These conditions and their consequences are likely to continue until the nation
fully recovers from the recent economic recession. Management cannot predict the extent to which these conditions will cause future
impairments or losses, nor can it provide any assurances as to when, or if, economic conditions will improve.
 
The Bank’s concentrations of commercial
real estate loans could subject it to increased regulatory scrutiny and directives, which could force us to preserve or raise capital
and/or limit future commercial lending activities.
 
The FRB, the FDIC,
and the other federal banking regulators issued guidance in December 2006 entitled “Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate
Lending, Sound Risk Management Practices” directed at institutions who have particularly high concentrations of CRE loans
within their lending portfolios. This guidance suggests that these institutions face a heightened risk of financial difficulties
in the event of adverse changes in the economy and CRE markets. Accordingly, the guidance suggests that institutions whose concentrations
exceed certain percentages of capital should implement heightened risk management practices appropriate to their concentration
risk. The guidance provides that banking regulators may require such institutions to reduce their concentrations and/or maintain
higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations in CRE. Based on the Bank’s concentration of commercial
acquisition and development and construction loans as of December 31, 2011, the Bank may be subject to heightened supervisory scrutiny
during future examinations and/or be required to take steps to address our concentration and capital levels. Management cannot
predict the extent to which this guidance will impact our operations or capital requirements.
 
The Bank may experience loan losses
in excess of its allowance, which would reduce our earnings.
 
The risk of credit
losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness
of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral
for the loan. Management of the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience,
an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors,
management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance
for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is
considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses
is inadequate to absorb future losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses
as a part of its examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. Although management
continually monitors our loan portfolio and makes determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments
may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect
to our non-performing or performing loans. Material additions to the allowance for loan losses could result in a material decrease
in our net income and capital, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.
 
The market value of our investments
could decline.
 
As of December 31,
2011, we had classified all but six of our investment securities as available-for-sale pursuant to FASB Accounting Standards Codification
Topic 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities, relating to accounting
for investments. Topic 320 requires that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio
be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in shareholders’ equity (net of tax) as accumulated other
comprehensive loss. There can be no assurance that future market performance of our investment portfolio will enable us to realize
income from sales of securities. Shareholders’ equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax)
of these investments. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the market value of our investment portfolio will not decline, causing
a corresponding decline in shareholders’ equity.
  
Management believes
that several factors will affect the market value of our investment portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in
interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets,
 


[14]
 

  
inflation
rates or expectations of inflation and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between
shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term
rates). Also, the passage of time will affect the market values of our investment securities, in that the closer they are to maturing,
the closer the market price should be to par value. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently,
and management cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category.
 
We operate in a competitive environment,
and our inability to effectively compete could adversely and materially impact our financial condition and results of operations.
 
We operate in a competitive
environment, competing for loans, deposits, and customers with commercial banks, savings associations and other financial entities.
Competition for deposits comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations, credit unions, money market and mutual
funds and other investment alternatives. Competition for loans comes primarily from other commercial banks, savings associations,
mortgage banking firms, credit unions and other financial intermediaries. Competition for other products, such as insurance and
securities products, comes from other banks, securities and brokerage companies, insurance companies, insurance agents and brokers,
and other non-bank financial service providers in our market area. Many of these competitors are much larger in terms of total
assets and capitalization, have greater access to capital markets, and/or offer a broader range of financial services than those
that we offer. In addition, banks with a larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions
have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the needs of larger customers.
 
In addition, changes
to the banking laws over the last several years have facilitated interstate branching, merger and expanded activities by banks
and holding companies. For example, the GLB Act revised the BHC Act and repealed the affiliation provisions of the Glass-Steagall
Act of 1933, which, taken together, limited the securities, insurance and other non-banking activities of any company that controls
an FDIC insured financial institution. As a result, the ability of financial institutions to branch across state lines and the
ability of these institutions to engage in previously-prohibited activities are now accepted elements of competition in the banking
industry. These changes may bring us into competition with more and a wider array of institutions, which may reduce our ability
to attract or retain customers. Management cannot predict the extent to which we will face such additional competition or the degree
to which such competition will impact our financial conditions or results of operations.
 
The banking industry is heavily regulated;
significant regulatory changes could adversely affect our operations.
 
Our operations will
be impacted by current and future legislation and by the policies established from time to time by various federal and state regulatory
authorities. First United Corporation is subject to supervision by the FRB. The Bank is subject to supervision and periodic examination
by the Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation, the West Virginia Division of Banking, and the FDIC. Banking regulations,
designed primarily for the safety of depositors, may limit a financial institution’s growth and the return to its investors
by restricting such activities as the payment of dividends, mergers with or acquisitions by other institutions, investments, loans
and interest rates, interest rates paid on deposits, expansion of branch offices, and the offering of securities or trust services.
First United Corporation and the Bank are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal law and could be subject
to enforcement actions to the extent that either is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. It is not possible to
predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes
may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Management also cannot predict the nature or the extent of the effect on
our business and earnings of future fiscal or monetary policies, economic controls, or new federal or state legislation. Further,
the cost of compliance with regulatory requirements may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably.
 
Our regulatory expenses will likely
increase due to federal laws, rules and programs that have been enacted or adopted in response to the recent banking crisis and
the current national recession. 
 
In response to the
banking crisis that began in 2008 and the resulting national recession, the federal government took drastic steps to help stabilize
the credit market and the financial industry. These steps included the enactment of the EESA, which, among other things, raised
the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage to $250,000, and the FDIC’s adoption of the TLGP, which, under the
TAG portion, provides full deposit insurance coverage through December 31, 2012 for non-interest bearing transaction deposit accounts,
IOLTAs, and NOW accounts with certain interest rates, regardless of account balance. The TLGP requires participating institutions,
like us, to pay 10 basis points per annum for the additional insured deposits. These regulatory actions will cause our regulatory
expenses to increase. Additionally, due in part to the 
 


[15]
 

 
failure
of several depository institutions around the country since the banking crisis began, the FDIC imposed an emergency insurance
assessment to help restore the Deposit Insurance Fund and further required insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated
quarterly risk-based deposit assessments through 2012 on December 30, 2009. Given the current state of the national economy, there
can be no assurance that the FDIC will not impose future emergency assessments or further revise its rate structure.
  
In addition, the
Dodd-Frank Act recently became law and implements significant changes in the financial regulatory landscape that will impact
all financial institutions, including First United Corporation and the Bank. The Dodd-Frank Act is likely to increase our regulatory
compliance burden. It is too early, however, for us to assess the full impact that the Dodd-Frank Act may have on our business,
financial condition or results of operations. Many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions require subsequent regulatory rulemaking.
The Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory changes include the creation of the Consumer Protection Bureau a new financial
consumer protection agency, known as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, that is empowered to promulgate new consumer
protection regulations and revise existing regulations in many areas of consumer compliance, which will increase our regulatory
compliance burden and costs and may restrict the financial products and services we offer to our customers. Moreover, the Dodd-Frank
Act permits states to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and states’ attorneys general may enforce consumer protection
rules issued by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes more stringent capital requirements
on bank holding companies by, among other things, imposing leverage ratios on bank holding companies and prohibiting new trust
preferred issuances from counting as Tier 1 capital. These restrictions will limit our future capital strategies. The Dodd-Frank
Act also increases regulation of derivatives and hedging transactions, which could limit our ability to enter into, or increase
the costs associated with, interest rate and other hedging transactions. Although certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, such
as direct supervision by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, will not apply to banking organizations with less than $10
billion of assets, such as First United Corporation and the Bank, the changes resulting from the legislation will impact our business.
These changes will require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes.
 
Recent amendments to the FRB’s
Regulation E may negatively impact our non-interest income.
 
On November 12, 2009,
the FRB announced the final rules amending Regulation E that prohibit financial institutions from charging fees to consumers for
paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts-in, to
the overdraft service for those types of transactions. Compliance with this regulation is effective July 1, 2010 for new consumer
accounts and August 15, 2010 for existing consumer accounts. These new rules negatively impacted certain non-interest income by
approximately 25%, the effect of which is included in service charge income on the statement of operations, in 2011 when compared
to 2010.
 
Customer concern about deposit insurance
may cause a decrease in deposits held at the Bank.
 
With increased concerns
about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers
may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with us is fully insured. Decreases
in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income.
 
The Bank’s funding sources may
prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth.
 
The Bank relies on
customer deposits, advances from the FHLB, lines of credit at other financial institutions and brokered funds to fund our operations.
Although the Bank has historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that
the Bank would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or
market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained and/or our cost of funds will increase
if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if financing necessary to accommodate future growth is not available at favorable
interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our
revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected.
 
The loss of key personnel could disrupt
our operations and result in reduced earnings.
 
Our growth and profitability
will depend upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managerial, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for qualified
personnel in the financial services industry is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting
and retaining such personnel. Our current executive officers provide valuable services based on their many years of experience
and in-depth knowledge of the banking industry and the market
 


[16]
 

 
areas
we serve. Due to the intense competition for financial professionals, these key personnel would be difficult to replace and an
unexpected loss of their services could result in a disruption to the continuity of operations and a possible reduction in earnings.
  
We may lose key personnel because of
our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program. 
 
On January 30, 2009,
First United Corporation participated in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”)
adopted by the U.S. Department of Treasury (“Treasury”) by selling 30,000 shares of First United Corporation’s
Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Series A Preferred Stock”) to Treasury and issuing
a 10-year common stock purchase warrant (the “Warrant”) to Treasury, for a total consideration of $30 million. As part
of these transactions, First United Corporation adopted the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate
governance for the period during which the Treasury holds any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock and/or any shares of common
stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant. On February 17, 2009, the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act of 2009 (the “Recovery
Act”) was signed into law, which, among other things, imposed additional executive compensation restrictions on institutions
that participate in the TARP CPP for so long as any TARP CPP assistance remains outstanding. Among these restrictions is a prohibition
against making most severance payments to our “senior executive officers” (our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and
President and the two next most highly compensated executive officers) and to our next five most highly compensated employees.
The restrictions also limit the type, timing and amount of bonuses, retention awards and incentive compensation that may be paid
to certain employees. These restrictions, coupled with the competition we face from other institutions, including institutions
that do not participate in TARP, may make it more difficult for us to attract and/or retain exceptional key employees.
 
The Bank’s lending activities
subject the Bank to the risk of environmental liabilities.
 
A significant portion
of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose
on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be
found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as
for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially
reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition,
future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s
exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating
any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The
remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations.
 
We may be adversely affected by other
recent legislation.
 
As discussed above,
the GLB Act repealed restrictions on banks affiliating with securities firms and it also permitted certain bank holding companies
to become financial holding companies. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a host of financial activities, and
activities that are incidental to financial activities, that are not permitted for bank holding companies who have not elected
to become financial holding companies, including insurance and securities underwriting and agency activities, merchant banking,
and insurance company portfolio investment activities. Although we are a financial holding company, this law may increase the competition
we face from larger banks and other companies, especially considering the fact that we have agreed with the FRB to not engage in
additional financial holding company activities until the Bank is considered both “well capitalized” and “well
managed”. It is not possible to predict the full effect that the GLB Act will have on us.
 
The federal Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 requires management of every publicly traded company to perform an annual assessment of the company’s internal
control over financial reporting and to report on whether the system is effective as of the end of the company’s fiscal year.
If our management were to discover and report significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
reporting, then the market value of our securities and shareholder value could decline.
 
The Patriot Act requires
certain financial institutions, such as the Bank, to maintain and prepare additional records and reports that are designed to assist
the government’s efforts to combat terrorism. This law includes sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency
laws and required additional regulations, including, among other things, standards for
 


[17]
 

 
verifying
client identification when opening an account and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law
enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. If we fail to comply with this
law, we could be exposed to adverse publicity as well as fines and penalties assessed by regulatory agencies.
  
The Bank has been sued in a class-action
lawsuit, and this suit will likely subject the Bank to significant legal costs and could subject the Bank to significant money
damages in the event that the Bank does not prevail.  
    
 During the fourth
quarter 2011, the Bank was named as a defendant in a class-action lawsuit brought in the Circuit Court for Montgomery County, Maryland
(the “Class-Action Suit”) by two related residential customers who refinanced their residential mortgage loan through
the Bank.  The Bank originated and closed the loan using a common “table funding” process in which the Bank was
named as the lender in the loan documents, but a third-party funded the loan and became the owner of the loan by taking immediate
assignment of the loan documents from the Bank when the proceeds were disbursed.  The plaintiffs’ primary claim is that
the Bank’s use of a table funding process caused it to be both a mortgage broker and a mortgage lender and that, as a consequence,
certain fees collected by the Bank constituted impermissible finder’s fees under Maryland’s Loans-Finder’s Fee
statute.  This statute prohibits a mortgage broker from charging a finder’s fee in any transaction in which the broker
is also the mortgage lender.  The Bank intends to vigorously defend the Class-Action Suit, as it believes that the plaintiffs’
claims have no merit because, among other reasons, the Bank was not acting as a mortgage broker and, in any event, the Bank is
exempt from the statute.  The Bank will incur legal fees in defending this suit, and those fees could be significant. 
There can be no assurance that the Bank will prevail in the Class-Action Suit, and a disposition of the plaintiffs’ claims
that is adverse to the Bank could subject the Bank to money damages equal to, for each loan, three times the amount of the impermissible
finder’s fee or $500, whichever is greater.  The legal fees that the Bank will pay to defend this suit and the total
amount of money damages that the Bank might pay in the event it loses the Class-Action Suit cannot be predicted with any degree
of certainty. 
 
We may be subject to claims and the
costs of defensive actions, and such claims and costs could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results
of operations.
 
Our customers may sue
us for losses due to alleged breaches of fiduciary duties, errors and omissions of employees, officers and agents, incomplete documentation,
our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or many other reasons. Also, our employees may knowingly or unknowingly
violate laws and regulations. Management may not be aware of any violations until after their occurrence. This lack of knowledge
may not insulate us from liability. Claims and legal actions will result in legal expenses and could subject us to liabilities
that may reduce our profitability and hurt our financial condition.
 
We may not be able to keep pace with
developments in technology.
 
We use various technologies
in conducting our businesses, including telecommunication, data processing, computers, automation, internet-based banking, and
debit cards. Technology changes rapidly. Our ability to compete successfully with other financial institutions may depend on whether
we can exploit technological changes. We may not be able to exploit technological changes, and any investment we do make may not
make us more profitable.
 
Safeguarding our business and customer information increases
our cost of operations. To the extent that we, or our third party vendors, are unable to prevent the theft of or unauthorized access
to this information, our operations may become disrupted, we may be subject to claims, and our net income may be adversely affected.
 
Our business depends
heavily on the use of computer systems, the Internet and other means of electronic communication and recordkeeping. Accordingly,
we must protect our computer systems and network from break-ins, security breaches, and other risks that could disrupt our operations
or jeopardize the security of our business and customer information. Moreover, we use third party vendors to provide products and
services necessary to conduct our day-to-day operations, which exposes us to risk that these vendors will not perform in accordance
with the service arrangements, including by failing to protect the confidential information we entrust to them. Any security measures
that we or our vendors implement, including encryption and authentication technology that we use to effect secure transmissions
of confidential information, may not be effective to prevent the loss or theft of our information or to prevent risks associated
with the Internet, such as cyber-fraud. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other
developments could permit unauthorized persons to gain access to our confidential information in spite of the use of security measures
that we believe are adequate. Any compromise of our security measures
 


[18]
 

 
or
of the security measures employed by our vendors of our third party could disrupt our business and/or could subject us to claims
from our customers, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
  
Risks Relating to First United Corporation’s
Securities
 
First United Corporation and the Bank
have entered into informal agreements with their regulators that limit their abilities to pay dividends and make other distributions
on outstanding securities, and First United Corporation has deferred the payment of certain dividends and distributions pursuant
to these agreements.
 
First United Corporation
is a party to an informal agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (the “Reserve Bank”) pursuant to which
First United Corporation agreed not to pay dividends on outstanding shares of its common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock,
make interest payments under the junior subordinated debentures underlying the trust preferred securities issued by the Trusts
(the “TPS Debentures”), or take any other action that reduces regulatory capital without the prior approval of the
Reserve Bank. The Bank is a party to a similar agreement with the FDIC and the Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation. These
agreements give our regulators the ability to prohibit a proposed dividend payment, or any other distribution with respect to outstanding
securities, including the repurchase of stock, at a time or times when applicable banking and corporate laws would otherwise permit
such a dividend or distribution. On November 15, 2010, First United Corporation elected, at the request of the Reserve Bank pursuant
to its agreement, to defer cash dividend payments on its common stock and to defer regularly scheduled quarterly cash dividend
payments under the Series A Preferred Stock, starting with the dividend payment due November 15, 2010. On December 15, 2010, at
the request of the Reserve Bank pursuant to its agreement, the Corporation elected to defer regularly scheduled quarterly interest
payments with respect to an aggregate of $41.73 million of the TPS Debentures, starting with the interest payments due in March
2011, and this deferral requires the Trusts to defer regular quarterly dividend payments on their trust preferred securities. Both
the deferral of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and the deferral of interest on the TPS Debentures are permitted under
the terms of those securities and do not constitute events of default. During the deferral periods, dividends on the Series A Preferred
Stock and interest under the TPS Debentures, and dividends on the related trust preferred securities, continue to accrue and must
be paid at the time First United Corporation recommences regular payments. Although First United Corporation intends to periodically
reevaluate the deferral of, and, in consultation with its regulators, consider reinstating, these payments when appropriate, no
assurances can be given as to when, or if, these payments will recommence.
 
Even if First United
Corporation were to conclude at a later date that its financial condition and results of operations warrant the recommencement
of these payments, there can be no guarantee that our regulators will agree with our conclusion. Moreover, there is no requirement
that our regulators take consistent approaches when exercising their powers under these agreements. For example, even though the
Reserve Bank might approve the payment of a particular dividend, that dividend could be effectively prohibited by the FDIC and/or
the Maryland Commissioner if First United Corporation intended to fund that dividend through a dividend by the Bank and the FDIC
and/or the Maryland Commissioner were to deny the Bank’s dividend request. Similarly, even though the FDIC and the Maryland
Commissioner might approve a dividend by the Bank to First United Corporation, the Reserve Bank could prevent the Corporation from
using that dividend to make a distribution to the holders of its outstanding common stock, Series A Preferred Stock, or outstanding
TPS Debentures.
 
Accordingly, holders
of shares of First United Corporation’s common stock and shares of the Series A Preferred Stock should not expect to receive
cash dividends for the foreseeable future.
 
These agreements increase
the likelihood that we will realize the other risks discussed below related to our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions.
 
The terms of the Series A Preferred
Stock limit First United Corporation’s ability to pay dividends and make other distributions on its capital securities, and
First United Corporation’s deferral of dividend payments under the Series A Preferred Stock has triggered additional dividend
restrictions. 
 
Under the terms of
the transaction documents relating to First United Corporation’s issuance of Series A Preferred Stock and the warrant to
the Treasury, First United Corporation’s ability to declare or pay dividends on shares of its capital securities is limited. 
Specifically, First United Corporation is unable to declare dividends on common stock, other stock ranking junior to the Series
A Preferred Stock, or preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, and First United Corporation is also
prohibited from repurchasing shares of such common stock, junior stock or parity stock,
 


[19]
 

 
if
First United Corporation is in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends.    As
noted above, First United Corporation has elected to defer cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock, so no cash dividends
or other distributions on, or repurchases of, the common stock are currently permitted.  First United Corporation cannot
predict when, or if, it will be able to pay accrued and future dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock.  Accordingly, the
holders of First United Corporation’s common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock should not expect to receive cash dividends
for the foreseeable future.
  
Because First United Corporation has
failed to make six quarterly dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock, the holders thereof have the right to elect up
to two additional directors to First United Corporation’s board of directors.
 
Subject to the declaration
thereof by First United Corporation’s board of directors, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock provide for the payment
of quarterly cash dividends on February 15th, May 15th, August 15th and November 15th of each year. Dividends will accrue regardless
of whether the board declares a dividend on any such date. The terms further provide that whenever, at any time or times, dividends
payable on the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend
periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors then constituting First United Corporation’s
board of directors will automatically be increased by two, from 13 directors to 15 directors (based on the current board structure).
Thereafter, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with holders of any outstanding stock having voting rights similar
to the Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a single class, will be entitled to fill the vacancies created by the automatic increase
by electing up to two additional directors (the “Preferred Stock Directors”) at the next annual meeting (or at a special
meeting called for the purpose of electing the Preferred Stock Directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent
annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. First United Corporation
currently does not have any outstanding stock with voting rights on par with the Series A Preferred Stock. As discussed above,
the Corporation has deferred the payment of cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for six quarterly dividend periods,
since November 15, 2010. The Treasury has not informed us that it intends to elect Preferred Stock Directors. If it were to do
so, however, the holders of the common stock would not be entitled to vote on the election of those Preferred Stock Directors.
 
First United Corporation’s ability
to pay dividends on its capital securities is also subject to the terms of its outstanding debentures, and First United Corporation’s
deferral of interest payments under the TPS Debentures has also triggered dividend restrictions. 
 
In March 2004, First
United Corporation issued approximately $30.9 million of TPS Debentures to Trust I and Trust II in connection with the sales by
those Trusts of $30.0 in mandatorily redeemable preferred capital securities to third party investors. In December 2004, First
United Corporation issued $5.0 million of additional junior subordinated debentures that were not tied to trust preferred securities
offerings. Between December 2009 and January 2010, First United Corporation issued approximately $10.8 million of TPS Debentures
to Trust III in connection with the sale by Trust III of approximately $10.5 million in mandatorily redeemable preferred capital
securities to third party investors. The terms of these debentures require us to make quarterly payments of interest to the holders
of the debentures. Under the TPS Debentures, First United Corporation has the ability to defer payments of interest for up to 20
consecutive quarterly periods. As noted above, First United Corporation elected to defer interest payments under all of its TPS
Debentures on December 15, 2010. Accordingly, First United Corporation is not currently permitted to pay dividends or make distributions
on, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, any shares of the common stock or the Series A Preferred Stock. First United Corporation
cannot predict when, or if, it will resume making interest payments under the TPS Debentures. Holders of shares of the common stock
and the Series A Preferred Stock should not expect to receive cash dividends for the foreseeable future.
 
Applicable banking and Maryland laws
impose additional restrictions on the ability of First United Corporation and the Bank to pay dividends and make other distributions
on their capital securities, and, in any event, the payment of dividends is at the discretion of the boards of directors of First
United Corporation and the Bank. 
 
In the past, First
United Corporation’s ability to pay dividends to shareholders has been largely dependent upon the receipt of dividends from
the Bank. Since December 2009, First United Corporation has used its cash to pay dividends. In December 2010, however, First United
Corporation contributed substantially all of its excess cash to the Bank to strengthen the Bank’s capital levels. Accordingly,
in the event that First United Corporation desires to pay cash dividends on the common stock and/or the Series A Preferred Stock
in the future, and assuming such dividends are then permitted under the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and the TPS Debentures,
First United Corporation will likely need to rely
 


[20]
 

 
on
dividends from the Bank to pay such dividends, and there can be no guarantee that the Bank will be able to pay such dividends.
Both federal and state laws impose restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends. Under Maryland law, a state-chartered
commercial bank may pay dividends only out of undivided profits or, with the prior approval of the Maryland Commissioner, from
surplus in excess of 100% of required capital stock. If, however, the surplus of a Maryland bank is less than 100% of its required
capital stock, cash dividends may not be paid in excess of 90% of net earnings. In addition to these specific restrictions, bank
regulatory agencies have the ability to prohibit proposed dividends by a financial institution which would otherwise be permitted
under applicable regulations if the regulatory body determines that such distribution would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice.
Banks that are considered “troubled institution” are prohibited by federal law from paying dividends altogether. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, shareholders must understand that the declaration and payment of dividends and the amounts thereof are at the discretion
of First United Corporation’s board of directors. Thus, even at times when First United Corporation is not prohibited from
paying cash dividends on its capital securities, neither the payment of such dividends nor the amounts thereof can be guaranteed.
 

The shares of common stock, Series A
Preferred Stock, and the Warrant are not insured.
 
The shares of First
United Corporation’s common stock, including the shares underlying the Warrant, the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock,
and the Warrant are not deposits and are not insured against loss by the FDIC or any other governmental or private agency.
 
There is no market for the Series A
Preferred Stock or the Warrant, and the common stock is not heavily traded.
 
There is no established
trading market for the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock or the Warrant. First United Corporation does not intend to apply
for listing of the Series A Preferred Stock on any securities exchange or for inclusion of the Series A Preferred Stock in any
automated quotation system unless requested by the Treasury. The common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, but
shares of the common stock are not heavily traded. Securities that are not heavily traded can be more volatile than stock trading
in an active public market. Factors such as our financial results, the introduction of new products and services by us or our competitors,
and various factors affecting the banking industry generally may have a significant impact on the market price of the shares the
common stock. Management cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for any of First United Corporation’s
securities will develop or be sustained in the future. Accordingly, holders of First United Corporation’s securities may
not be able to sell such securities at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire.
 
First United Corporation’s Articles
of Incorporation and Bylaws and Maryland law may discourage a corporate takeover.
 
First United Corporation’s
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (the “Charter”) and its Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended (the
“Bylaws”) contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of First United Corporation’s board of directors
to deal with attempts to acquire control of First United Corporation. First, the board of directors is classified into three classes.
Directors of each class serve for staggered three-year periods, and no director may be removed except for cause, and then only
by the affirmative vote of either a majority of the entire board of directors or a majority of the outstanding voting stock. Second,
the board has the authority to classify and reclassify unissued shares of stock of any class or series of stock by setting, fixing,
eliminating, or altering in any one or more respects the preferences, rights, voting powers, restrictions and qualifications of,
dividends on, and redemption, conversion, exchange, and other rights of, such securities. The board could use this authority, along
with its authority to authorize the issuance of securities of any class or series, to issue shares having
terms favorable to management to a person or persons affiliated with or otherwise friendly to management. In addition, the Bylaws
require any shareholder who desires to nominate a director to abide by strict notice requirements. 
 
Maryland law also contains
anti-takeover provisions that apply to First United Corporation. The Maryland Business Combination Act generally prohibits, subject
to certain limited exceptions, corporations from being involved in any “business combination” (defined as a variety
of transactions, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange, asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities)
with any “interested shareholder” for a period of five years following the most recent date on which the interested
shareholder became an interested shareholder. An interested shareholder is defined generally as a person who is the beneficial
owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation after the date on which the corporation
had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock or who is an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the beneficial owner,
directly or indirectly, of 10% percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding stock of the corporation at any time
within the two-year period
 


[21]
 

 
immediately
prior to the date in question and after the date on which the corporation had 100 or more beneficial owners of its stock. The
Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act applies to acquisitions of “control shares”, which, subject to certain exceptions,
are shares the acquisition of which entitle the holder, directly or indirectly, to exercise or direct the exercise of the voting
power of shares of stock of the corporation in the election of directors within any of the following ranges of voting power: one-tenth
or more, but less than one-third of all voting power; one-third or more, but less than a majority of all voting power or a majority
or more of all voting power. Control shares have limited voting rights.
  
Although these provisions
do not preclude a takeover, they may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or deferring a tender offer or takeover attempt
that a shareholder might consider in his or her best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the
market price for the common stock. Such provisions will also render the removal of the board of directors and of management more
difficult and, therefore, may serve to perpetuate current management. These provisions could potentially adversely affect the market
prices of First United Corporation’s securities.
 

ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

 
First United Corporation
is a “smaller reporting company” and, thus, this Item 1B is not applicable.
 

ITEM 2.PROPERTIES

 
The headquarters of
First United Corporation and the Bank occupies approximately 29,000 square feet at 19 South Second Street, Oakland, Maryland, a
30,000 square feet operations center located at 12892 Garrett Highway, Oakland Maryland and 8,500 square feet at 102 South Second
Street, Oakland, Maryland. These premises are owned by First United Corporation. The Bank owns 21 of its banking offices and leases
seven, which includes one specialty office. As of December 31, 2011, First United Corporation also leased six offices of non-bank
subsidiaries. Total rent expense on the leased offices and properties was $.6 million in 2011.
 

ITEM 3.LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

 
We are at times, in
the ordinary course of business, subject to legal actions. Management, upon the advice of counsel, believes that losses, if any,
resulting from current legal actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
 

ITEM 4.MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

 
Not applicable.
 


[22]
 

  
PART II
 

ITEM 5.MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

 
Shares of First United
Corporation’s common stock are listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “FUNC”. As of February
27, 2012, First United Corporation had 1,889 shareholders of record. The high and low sales prices for, and the cash dividends
declared on, the shares of First United Corporation’s common stock for each quarterly period of 2011 and 2010 are set forth
below. On March 12, 2012, the closing sales price of the common stock as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market was $4.76 per
share.
  


  
High  
Low  
Dividends  Declared 

2011 
    
    
   

1st Quarter 
$4.93  
$2.76  
$.000 

2nd Quarter 
 6.00  
 2.92  
 .000 

3rd Quarter 
 5.50  
 3.38  
 .000 

4th Quarter 
 4.81  
 2.93  
 .000 

  
    
    
   

2010 
    
    
   

1st Quarter 
$7.36  
$4.66  
$.010 

2nd Quarter 
 7.12  
 3.80  
 .010 

3rd Quarter 
 5.04  
 3.32  
 .010 

4th Quarter 
 5.00  
 3.06  
 .000 

 
As a result of First
United Corporation’s deferral of cash dividends under its Series A Preferred Stock in November 2010 and its December 2010
decision to defer interest payments under its TPS Debentures, First United Corporation is currently prohibited from declaring or
paying cash dividends on outstanding shares of common stock. Subject to the restrictions imposed on First United Corporation by
banking and corporate laws and the terms of its other securities, the payment of dividends on the shares of common stock and the
amounts thereof are at the discretion of First United Corporation’s Board of Directors. Prior to November 2010, cash dividends
were typically declared on a quarterly basis. Historically, dividends to shareholders were generally dependent on the ability of
First United Corporation’s subsidiaries, especially the Bank, to declare dividends to the Corporation. The ability of the
Bank to declare dividends is limited by federal and state banking laws and state corporate laws. A complete discussion of these
dividend restrictions is contained in Item 1A of Part I of this annual report under the heading, “Risks Relating to
First United Corporation’s Securities” and in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, both of which
are incorporated herein by reference. There can be no guarantee that dividends will be declared in any future fiscal quarter.
 
Issuer Repurchases
 
Neither
First United Corporation nor any of its affiliates (as defined by Exchange Act Rule 10b-18) repurchased any shares of First
United Corporation’s common stock during the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
Equity Compensation Plan Information
 
Pursuant to the SEC’s
Regulation S-K Compliance and Disclosure Interpretation 106.01, the information regarding First United Corporation’s equity
compensation plans required by this Item pursuant to Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is located in Item 12 of Part III of this annual
report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 


[23]
 

  


ITEM 6.SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

 
The following table
sets forth certain selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, and is qualified in its entirety by the detailed
information and financial statements, including notes thereto, included elsewhere or incorporated by reference in this annual report.

 


(Dollars in thousands, except for share data) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Balance Sheet Data 
    
    
    
    
   

Total Assets 
$1,390,865  
$1,696,445  
$1,743,796  
$1,639,104  
$1,478,909 

Net Loans 
 919,214  
 987,615  
 1,101,794  
 1,120,199  
 1,035,962 

Investment Securities 
 245,023  
 229,687  
 273,784  
 354,595  
 304,908 

Deposits 
 1,027,784  
 1,301,646  
 1,304,166  
 1,222,889  
 1,126,552 

Long-term Borrowings 
 207,044  
 243,100  
 270,544  
 277,403  
 178,451 

Shareholders’ Equity 
 96,656  
 95,640  
 100,566  
 72,690  
 104,665 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating Data 
    
    
    
    
   

Interest Income 
$59,496  
$70,747  
$85,342  
$95,216  
$93,565 

Interest Expense 
 21,206  
 29,164  
 32,104  
 43,043  
 49,331 

Net Interest Income 
 38,290  
 41,583  
 53,238  
 52,173  
 44,234 

Provision for Loan Losses 
 9,157  
 15,726  
 15,588  
 12,925  
 2,312 

Other Operating Income 
 15,115  
 15,356  
 15,390  
 15,766  
 16,697 

Net Securities Impairment Losses 
 (19) 
 (8,364) 
 (26,693) 
 (2,724) 
 0 

Net Gains/(Losses) – Other 
 620  
 (6,014) 
 411  
 727  
 (1,605)

Other Operating Expense 
 41,858  
 45,049  
 46,578  
 40,573  
 38,475 

Income/(Loss) Before Taxes 
 2,991  
 (18,214) 
 (19,820) 
 12,444  
 18,539 

Income Tax (benefit)/expense 
 (635) 
 (8,017) 
 (8,496) 
 3,573  
 5,746 

Net Income/(Loss) 
$3,626  
$(10,197) 
$(11,324) 
$8,871  
$12,793 

Accumulated preferred stock dividend and discount accretion 
 (1,609) 
 (1,559) 
 (1,430) 
 0  
 0 

Net income available to/(loss) attributable to common shareholders 
$2,017  
$(11,756) 
$(12,754) 
$8,871  
$12,793 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Per Share Data 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic net Income/(Loss) per common share 
$.33  
$(1.91) 
$(2.08) 
$1.45  
$2.08 

Diluted net Income/(Loss) per common share 
$.33  
$(1.91) 
$(2.08) 
$1.45  
$2.08 

Dividends Paid 
 .00  
 .13  
 .80  
 .80  
 .78 

Book Value 
 10.80  
 10.68  
 11.49  
 11.89  
 17.05 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Significant Ratios 
    
    
    
    
   

Return on Average Assets 
 .24% 
 (.58)% 
 (.67)% 
 .55% 
 .90%

Return on Average Equity 
 3.71% 
 (10.10)% 
 (11.02)% 
 9.31% 
 12.70%

Dividend Payout Ratio 
 0% 
 (7.85)% 
 (43.21)% 
 55.17% 
 37.50%

Average Equity to Average Assets 
 6.55% 
 5.73% 
 6.06% 
 5.95% 
 7.10%

Total Risk-based Capital Ratio 
 13.05% 
 11.57% 
 11.20% 
 12.18% 
 12.51%

Tier I Capital to Risk Weighted Assets 
 11.30% 
 9.74% 
 9.60% 
 10.59% 
 11.40%

Tier I Capital to Average Assets 
 9.10% 
 7.34% 
 8.53% 
 8.10% 
 8.91%

 


[24]
 


 

ITEM 7.MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

 
This discussion and
analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto for the year ended December
31, 2011, which are included in Item 8 of Part II of this annual report.
 
Recent Developments
 
Effective on January
1, 2012, the Insurance Group sold substantially all of its assets, net of cash, to an unrelated third party (the “Acquirer”)
for $3.6 million. Prior to that date, the Insurance Group operated as a full service insurance
agency with offices in Maryland and West Virginia. As part of this sale, we agreed that we would not compete with the Acquirer
for insurance business other than with respect to insurance related to our banking, trust, lending, consumer finance company, and/or
securities sales businesses. We also agreed to not solicit the Acquirer’s customers or any person who was a customer of the
Insurance Group at any time within three years prior to the sale. These restrictions will terminate on January 1, 2017. As a result
of these agreements, we anticipate that our insurance activities for the foreseeable future will be limited to the sale of credit-related
insurance products and the sale, through our networking arrangements, of annuities. Also as part of the sale, we agreed, until
January 1, 2013, to refer insurance business to the Acquirer. To the extent permitted by law, we will be entitled to a referral
fee, equal to 10% of the commission payable to the Acquirer, when our referrals result in the sale of an insurance policy of a
type not previously sold to the customer by the Acquirer. Total revenues for 2011 were $2.4 million and pre-tax operating expenses,
net of amortization expense and expenses related to the sale were $2.2 million. Management does not expect the sale of the Insurance
Group’s assets or the referral arrangement to have a material impact on our future financial condition or results of operations.
 
Overview
 
First United Corporation
is a financial holding company which, through the Bank and its non-bank subsidiaries, provides an array of financial products and
services primarily to customers in four Western Maryland counties and four Northeastern West Virginia
counties. Its principal operating subsidiary is the Bank, which consists of a community banking network of 28 branch offices located
throughout its market areas. Our primary sources of revenue are interest income earned from our loan and investment securities
portfolios and fees earned from financial services provided to customers.
 
Consolidated net income
available to common shareholders was $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to a net loss attributable to
common shareholders of $11.8 million for the same period of 2010. Basic and diluted net income per common share for the year ended
December 31, 2011 were $.33, compared to basic and diluted net loss per common share of $1.91 for the same period of 2010. The
change in earnings, from a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2010 to net income for the year ended December 31, 2011, resulted
primarily from a $6.6 million reduction in provision for loan losses and a $3.8 million reduction in net losses from sales of securities
and other real estate owned. In addition, $19,000 in non-cash other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges were
realized for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $8.4 million for the same period of 2010. During 2011, we also recognized
a gain of $1.4 million from the sale of a portion of the indirect auto loan portfolio. The decreases in expenses and the gain on
the sale of indirect auto loans were offset by a decrease of $7.4 million in income tax benefit and a decline in net interest income
of $3.3 million. The decrease in net interest income was driven by an $11.7 million reduction in interest income on a fully tax-equivalent
(“FTE”) basis attributable to lower levels of loans, the sale of a portion of the indirect auto portfolio and the lower
interest rate environment. The net interest margin for the year ended December 31, 2011, on an FTE basis, increased to 2.96% from
2.71% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in the net interest margin was driven primarily by the strategic plan
to reduce cash levels by paying off certain liabilities that matured during 2011 and to change the composition of our deposit mix,
focusing on lower cost core deposits.
 
The provision for loan
losses was $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $15.7 million for fiscal year 2010. The lower provision
expense was primarily due to a leveling in the credit quality of our loan portfolio. Management continued to make specific allocations
for impaired loans where it was determined that the collateral supporting the loans is not adequate to cover the loan balance,
and management adjusted the qualitative factors affecting the allowance for loan losses (the “ALL”) to reflect changes
in the economic environment.
 

[25]
 


 
Interest expense on
our interest-bearing liabilities decreased $8.0 million during 2011 when compared to 2010 due primarily to a planned decrease of
$260.1 million in average interest-bearing deposits and a $39.1 million decrease in average debt outstanding. Management used cash
to repay wholesale deposits and FHLB advances. The decline in expense was also due to the low interest rate environment and our
strategy to provide special pricing only to full relationship customers.
 
Other operating income
increased $14.7 million during 2011 when compared to 2010. This increase was primarily attributable to an $8.4 million decrease
in non-cash credit-related OTTI charges, and a decrease of $6.1 million in net losses related to sales of securities, sales and
write downs of other real estate owned and a gain recognized on the sale of a portion of the indirect auto loan portfolio. Operating
expenses decreased $3.2 million during 2011 when compared to the same period of 2010. This decrease was due primarily to a $1.1
million decline in salaries and benefits related to a reduction in full-time equivalents through attrition and reduced pension
expense and a decline of $1.7 million in FDIC premiums attributable to the repayment of brokered deposits.
 
Comparing December
31, 2011 to December 31, 2010, outstanding loans decreased by $38.6 million (3.8%), net of the sale of $32.5 million of the indirect
auto portfolio. CRE loans decreased $12.4 million as a result of the payoff of several large loans, charge-offs of loan balances
and ongoing scheduled principal payments. Commercial and industrial (“C&I”) loans increased $8.7 million and residential
mortgages declined $9.5 million. Acquisition and development loans decreased $14.0 million due to principal repayments and charge
offs. The decrease in the residential mortgage portfolio was attributable to regularly scheduled principal payments on existing
loans and management’s decision to use secondary market outlets such as Fannie Mae for the majority of new, longer-term,
fixed-rate residential loan originations. The consumer loan portfolio declined $43.9 million due primarily to the sale of $32.5
million of retail installment contracts in our indirect auto loan portfolio and $11.4 million of repayment activity in the indirect
auto portfolio which exceeded new production due to special financing offered by the automotive manufacturers, credit unions and
certain large regional banks. At December 31, 2011, approximately 64% of the commercial loan portfolio was collateralized by real
estate, compared to approximately 71% at December 31, 2010.
 
Interest income on
loans in 2011 decreased by $8.8 million (on an FTE basis) when compared to 2010 due to the decrease in interest rates and the decline
the in loan balances during 2011. Interest income on the investment securities decreased by $2.7 million (on an FTE basis) due
to reinvesting called securities at lower rates. (Additional information on the composition of interest income is available in
Table 1 that appears on page 32).
 
Total
deposits decreased $273.9 million during 2011 when compared to deposits at December 31, 2010. The decline in deposits was due to
a strategic decision to use cash to repay wholesale deposits and FHLB advances. The repayment of approximately $161 million in
wholesale deposits was offset by increases of $28.7 million in non-interest bearing deposits, $9.0 million in traditional savings
accounts and $2.1 million in retail money market accounts. Time deposits less than $100,000 declined $62.3 million while time deposits
greater than $100,000 decreased $196.9 million. The decrease was due to a $160.4 million decline in brokered certificates of deposit
and CDARS® participation,
and a decrease of $36.5 million in retail certificates of deposit. 
 
Interest expense decreased
$8.0 million in 2011 when compared to 2010. The decline was due to an overall reduction in interest rates on time deposits driven
by our decision to increase special rates only for full relationship customers, the shorter duration of the portfolio, lower balances
and the increase in non-interest bearing deposits. The overall net interest margin increased during 2011 to 2.96% from 2.71% in
2010 on a fully taxable equivalent basis.
 
Other
Operating Income/Other Operating Expense – Other
operating income, exclusive of losses, decreased $.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 when compared to fiscal year
2010. Service charge income decreased $.7 million due primarily to a reduction in non-sufficient funds (“NSF”) fees
resulting from newly enacted regulation of overdraft fees. Debit card income increased $.5 million during 2011 when compared to
2010 due to increased consumer spending and higher customer awareness of our rewards program. Trust department income increased
$.3 million during 2011 when compared to 2010 due to a slight increase in assets under management and the fees received on those
accounts and increased fees collected on estate administration. Assets under management were approximately $595 million at December
31, 2011, a 1% increase over December 31, 2010. 
 
Net gains of $.6 million
were reported through other income during 2011, compared to net losses of $14.4 million during 2010. There were $19,000 in losses
during 2011 that were attributable to non-cash OTTI charges on the investment portfolio, down from the $8.4 million during fiscal
year 2010. The reduced OTTI charges resulted from the improvement in the financial industry, the debt securities of which make
up the primary collateral for the securities in our collateralized 
 


[26]
 

 
debt
obligation (“CDO”) portfolio. Net gains of $.9 million from sales of investments, the $1.4 million gain from the sale
of our indirect auto loan portfolio and $.3 million of gains on sales of other real estate owned were offset by $2.0 million in
write-downs of other real estate owned.
 

Other operating expenses
decreased $3.2 million (7%) for the year ended December 31, 2011 when compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The decrease
was primarily due to a $1.1 million decline in salaries and benefits, resulting primarily from a reduction of full-time equivalent
employees through attrition and reduced pension expense, and a $1.7 million decline in FDIC premiums attributable to the repayment
of brokered deposits.
 
Dividends
– During 2011, First United Corporation did not declare or pay any dividends on the shares of its common stock
on account of the board of directors’ decision in November 2010 to defer quarterly cash dividends on the Series A Preferred
Stock. There were no dividends paid on the Series A Preferred Stock in 2011. In 2010, First United Corporation paid a total of
$.8 million in cash dividends on the shares of common stock and a total of $1.1 million in cash dividends on the Series A Preferred
Stock.
 
Looking
Forward – We will continue to face risks and challenges in the future, including, without limitation,
changes in local economic conditions in our core geographic markets, potential yield compression on
loan and deposit products from existing competitors and potential new entrants in our markets, fluctuations in interest rates,
and changes to existing federal and state laws and regulations that apply to banks and financial holding companies. For a more
complete discussion of these and other risk factors, see Item 1A of Part I of this annual report.
 
Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates
 
This discussion and
analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation
of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. (See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.)
On an on-going basis, management evaluates estimates, including those related to loan losses and intangible assets. Management
bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances,
the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management
believes the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation
of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses, or ALL
 
One of our most important
accounting policies is that related to the monitoring of the loan portfolio. A variety of estimates impact the
carrying value of the loan portfolio, including the calculation of the ALL, the valuation of underlying collateral, the timing
of loan charge-offs and the placement of loans on non-accrual status. The allowance is established and maintained at a level that
management believes is adequate to cover losses resulting from the inability of borrowers to make required payment on loans. Estimates
for loan losses are arrived at by analyzing risks associated with specific loans and the loan portfolio, current and historical
trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, and changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio. The analysis also requires
consideration of the economic climate and direction, changes in lending rates, political conditions, legislation impacting the
banking industry and economic conditions specific to Western Maryland and Northeastern West Virginia. Because the calculation of
the ALL relies on management’s estimates and judgments relating to inherently uncertain events, actual results may differ
from management’s estimates.
 
The ALL is also discussed
below in Item 7 under the heading “Allowance for Loan Losses” and in Note 7 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Accounting Standards
Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, establishes standards for the amortization
of acquired intangible assets and impairment assessment of goodwill.  We have $1.6 million related
to acquisitions of insurance “books of business” which are subject to amortization.
The $12.9 million in recorded goodwill is primarily related to the acquisition of Huntington National Bank branches that occurred
in 2003 and the acquisition of insurance books of business in 2008 that are not subject to periodic amortization.  
 

[27]
 

 
Goodwill arising from
business combinations represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements in the business acquired. Goodwill
is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
asset might be impaired. Impairment testing requires that the fair value of each of First United Corporation’s reporting
units be compared to the carrying amount of its net assets, including goodwill.  If the estimated current fair value of the
reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, no additional testing is required and an impairment loss is not recorded. Otherwise,
additional testing is performed, and to the extent such additional testing results in a conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill
exceeds its implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.
 
Our goodwill relates
to the value inherent in the banking business, and that value is dependent upon our ability to provide quality, cost effective
services in a highly competitive local market.  This ability relies upon continuing investments in processing systems, the
development of value-added service features and the ease of use of our services.  As such, goodwill value is supported ultimately
by revenue that is driven by the volume of business transacted.  A decline in earnings as a result of a lack of growth or
the inability to deliver cost effective services over sustained periods can lead to impairment of goodwill, which could adversely
impact earnings in future periods.  ASC Topic 350 requires an annual evaluation of goodwill for impairment.  The determination
of whether or not these assets are impaired involves significant judgments and estimates. 
 
Throughout
2011, consistent with First United Corporation’s peer group, the shares of First United Corporation common stock traded below
its book value.  At December 31, 2011, First United Corporation’s stock price was significantly below its tangible
book value.  Management believed that these circumstances could indicate the possibility of impairment. Accordingly, management
consulted a third party valuation specialist to assist it with the determination of the fair value of First United Corporation,
considering both the market approach (guideline public company method) and the income approach (discounted future benefits method).
Due to the illiquidity in the common stock and the adverse conditions surrounding the banking industry, reliance was placed on
the income approach in determining the fair value of First United Corporation. The income approach is a discounted cash flow analysis
that is determined by adding (i) the present value, which is a representation of the current value of a sum that is to be received
some time in the future, of the estimated net income, net of dividends paid out, that First United Corporation could generate over
the next five years and (ii) the present value of a terminal value, which is a representation of the current value of an entity
at a specified time in the future.  The terminal value was calculated using both a price to tangible book multiple method
and a capitalization method and the more conservative of the two was utilized in the fair value calculation.  
 
Significant assumptions
used in the above methods include:
 

·Net income from First United Corporation’s
forward five-year operating budget, incorporating conservative growth and mix assumptions;

·A discount rate of 11.0% based on the
most recent [third quarter of 2011] Cost of Capital Report from Morningstar/Ibbotson Associates for the Commercial Banking Sector
adjusted for a size and risk premium of 302 basis points;

·A price to tangible book multiple of 1.12,
which was the median multiple of commercial bank mergers and acquisitions during 2011 for selling banks and holding companies with
non-performing assets to average assets between 4.0% and 6.0%, as provided by Sheshunoff & Co.; and

·A capitalization rate of 8.0% (discount
rate of 11.0% adjusted for a conservative growth rate of 3.0%).
 
The resulting fair
value of the income approach resulted in the fair value of First United Corporation exceeding the carrying value by 66%. 
Management stressed the assumptions used in the analysis to provide additional support for the derived value.  This stress
testing showed that (i) the discount rate could increase to 27% before the excess would be eliminated in the tangible multiple
method, and (ii) the assumption of the tangible book multiple could decline to 0.41 and still result in a fair value in excess
of book value.  Based on the results of the evaluation, management concluded that the recorded value of goodwill at December
31, 2011 was not impaired.  However, future changes in strategy and/or market conditions could significantly impact these
judgments and require adjustments to recorded asset balances. Management will continue to evaluate goodwill
for impairment on an annual basis and as events occur or circumstances change. 
 
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
First United Corporation
accounts for income taxes by recording deferred income taxes that reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Management
exercises significant judgment in the evaluation of the amount and
 


[28]
 

 
timing
of the recognition of the resulting tax assets and liabilities. The judgments and estimates required for the evaluation are updated
based upon changes in business factors and the tax laws. 
 
A valuation allowance
is recognized to reduce any deferred tax assets that based upon available information, it is more-likely-than-not all, or any portion,
of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  Assessing the need for, and amount of, a valuation allowance for deferred
tax assets requires significant judgment and analysis of evidence regarding realization of the deferred tax assets.  In most
cases, the realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the recognition of deferred tax liabilities and generating a sufficient
level of taxable income in future periods, which can be difficult to predict.  Our largest deferred tax assets involve differences
related to ALL and unrealized losses on investment securities.  Given the nature of our deferred tax assets, management determined
no valuation allowances were needed at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010 except for a state valuation allowance for certain
state deferred tax assets associated with our Parent Company.
 
Management expects
that First United Corporation’s adherence to the required accounting guidance may result in increased volatility in quarterly
and annual effective income tax rates because of changes in judgment or measurement including changes in actual and forecasted
income before taxes, tax laws and regulations, and tax planning strategies.
 
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment Securities
 
Securities available-for-sale:
Securities available-for-sale are stated at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in the accumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss) component in shareholders’ equity.
 
The amortized cost
of debt securities classified as available-for-sale is adjusted for amortization of premiums to the first call date, if applicable,
or to maturity, and for accretion of discounts to maturity, or in the case of mortgage-backed securities, over the estimated life
of the security. Such amortization and accretion, plus interest and dividends, are included in interest income from investments.
Gains and losses on the sale of securities are recorded using the specific identification method.
 
Management
systematically evaluates securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. Based upon application of accounting guidance for subsequent
measurement in ASC Topic 320 (Section 320-10-35), management assesses whether (i) it has the intent
to sell a security being evaluated and (ii) it is more likely than not that First United Corporation
will be required to sell the security prior to its anticipated recovery. If neither applies, then declines in the fair values
of securities below their cost that are considered other-than-temporary declines are split into two components. The first is the
loss attributable to declining credit quality. Credit losses are recognized in earnings as realized losses in the period in which
the impairment determination is made. The second component consists of all other losses, which are recognized in other comprehensive
loss. In estimating OTTI losses, management considers (a) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less
than cost, (b) adverse conditions specifically related to the security, an industry, or a geographic area, (c) the historic and
implied volatility of the fair value of the security, (d) changes in the rating of the security by a rating agency, (e) recoveries
or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date, (f) failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled
interest or principal payments, and (g) the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able
to make payments that increase in the future. Management also monitors cash flow projections
for securities that are considered beneficial interests under the guidance of ASC Subtopic 325-40, Investments – Other
– Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, (ASC Section 325-40-35). 
This process is described more fully in the section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet Review entitled “Investment Securities”.

 
Fair Value of Investments
 
We
have determined the fair value of our investment securities in accordance with the requirements of ASC Topic 820, Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements required under other accounting pronouncements. We measure the
fair market values of our investments based on the fair value hierarchy established in Topic 820. The determination of fair value
of investments and other assets is discussed further in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
  
Pension Plan Assumptions
 
Our pension plan costs
are calculated using actuarial concepts, as discussed within the requirements of ASC Topic 715, Compensation – Retirement
Benefits. Pension expense and the determination of our projected pension liability are based upon two critical assumptions:
the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. We evaluate each of these
 


[29]
 

 
critical
assumptions annually. Other assumptions impact the determination of pension expense and the projected liability including the
primary employee demographics, such as retirement patterns, employee turnover, mortality rates, and estimated employer compensation
increases. These factors, along with the critical assumptions, are carefully reviewed by management each year in consultation
with our pension plan consultants and actuaries. Further information about our pension plan assumptions, the plan’s funded
status, and other plan information is included in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Other than as discussed
above, management does not believe that any material changes in our critical accounting policies have occurred since December 31,
2010.
 
Adoption of New Accounting Standards and Effects of New Accounting
Pronouncements 
 
Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements discusses new accounting pronouncements that, when adopted, could affect our future consolidated financial
statements.
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME REVIEW
 
Net Interest Income
 
Net interest income is our largest source
of operating revenue. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on interest-earning
assets and the interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. For analytical and discussion purposes, net interest
income is adjusted to an FTE basis to facilitate performance comparisons between taxable and tax-exempt assets by increasing tax-exempt
income by an amount equal to the federal income taxes that would have been paid if this income were taxable at the statutorily
applicable rate. 
 
The table below summarizes net interest
income (on a fully taxable equivalent basis) for the 2011 and 2010.
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Interest income 
$61,029  
$72,730 

Interest expense 
 21,206  
 29,164 

Net interest income 
$39,823  
$43,566 

  
    
   

Net interest margin % 
 2.96% 
 2.71%

 
Net interest income
on an FTE basis decreased $3.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 over the same period in 2010 due to an $11.7 million
(16.1%) decrease in interest income, which was partially offset by an $8.0 million (27.3%) decrease in interest expense. The decrease
in net interest income resulted primarily from a lower level of loans and the lower interest rate environment in 2011 when compared
to 2010.
 
Average interest-earning
assets decreased by $264.7 million during 2011. The average yield on our average earning assets increased slightly to 4.54% at
December 31, 2011 from 4.52% at December 31, 2010. This increase was due primarily to our strategy to deploy excess liquidity,
invested at lower rates, to repay brokered and wholesale funding at their stated maturities rather than renew.
 
Interest expense decreased
during 2011 when compared to 2010 due to an overall reduction in interest rates paid on time deposits, driven by our decision to
provide special rates only to full relationship customers, as well as lower balances and the shorter duration of the portfolio.
The overall decrease of $299.2 million in average interest-bearing liabilities in 2011 when compared to 2010 decreased the average
rate paid from 1.89% at December 31, 2010 to 1.71% at December 31, 2011.
 
As shown below, the
composition of total interest income between 2011 and 2010 reflects a slight shift toward interest and fees on loans from investment
securities.
 

[30]
 


 


  
% of Total  Interest Income 

  
2011  
2010 

Interest and fees on loans 
 88% 
 86%

Interest on investment securities 
 11% 
 13%

Other 
 1% 
 1%

 
Table 1 sets forth
the average balances, net interest income and expense, and average yields and rates for our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing
liabilities for 2011, 2010 and 2009. Table 2 sets forth an analysis of volume and rate changes in interest income and interest
expense of our average interest-earning assets and average interest-bearing liabilities for 2011, 2010 and 2009. Table 2 distinguishes
between the changes related to average outstanding balances (changes in volume created by holding the interest rate constant) and
the changes related to average interest rates (changes in interest income or expense attributed to average rates created by holding
the outstanding balance constant).
 

[31]
 


 
Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and
Shareholders’ Equity
Interest Rates and Interest Differential
– Tax Equivalent Basis
Table 1
 


  
For the Years Ended December 31 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Average
    Balance  
Interest  
Average
    Yield/Rate  
Average
    Balance  
Interest  
Average
    Yield/Rate  
Average
    Balance  
Interest  
Average
    Yield/Rate 

Assets 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Loans 
$953,774  
$52,343  
 5.49% 
$1,074,080  
$61,115  
 5.69% 
$1,132,569  
$68,271  
 6.03%

Investment Securities: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Taxable 
 173,811  
 4,081  
 2.35  
 148,565  
 5,524  
 3.72  
 224,647  
 13,106  
 5.83 

Non taxable 
 76,237  
 4,228  
 5.55  
 94,728  
 5,518  
 5.83  
 98,960  
 5,962  
 6.02 

Total 
 250,048  
 8,309  
 3.32  
 243,293  
 11,042  
 4.54  
 323,607  
 19,068  
 5.89 

Federal funds sold 
 109,287  
 265  
 .24  
 190,878  
 422  
 .22  
 48,979  
 96  
 .20 

Interest-bearing deposits
    with other banks 
 19,922  
 15  
 .08  
 87,860  
 104  
 .12  
 34,389  
 28  
 .08 

Other
    interest earning assets 
 11,797  
 97  
 .82  
 13,453  
 47  
 .35  
 13,819  
 15  
 .11 

Total earning assets 
 1,344,828  
 61,029  
 4.54% 
 1,609,564  
 72,730  
 4.52% 
 1,553,363  
 87,478  
 5.63%

Allowance for loan losses 
 (21,495) 
    
    
 (22,530) 
    
    
 (14,960) 
    
   

Non-earning assets 
 167,896  
    
    
 176,265  
    
    
 157,741  
    
   

Total Assets 
$1,491,229  
    
    
$1,763,299  
    
    
$1,696,144  
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Liabilities
    and Shareholders’ Equity 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest-bearing demand
    deposits 
$98,395  
$134  
 .14% 
$115,478  
$387  
 .34% 
$107,869  
$195  
 .18%

Interest-bearing money
    markets 
 224,303  
 748  
 .33  
 286,639  
 2,418  
 .84  
 283,430  
 2,802  
 .99 

Savings deposits 
 100,598  
 277  
 .28  
 83,734  
 566  
 .68  
 76,703  
 498  
 .65 

Time deposits: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Less than $100k 
 290,651  
 5,650  
 1.94  
 366,922  
 7,802  
 2.13  
 323,409  
 9,241  
 2.86 

$100k or more 
 267,648  
 5,090  
 1.90  
 388,945  
 6,910  
 1.78  
 355,589  
 7,480  
 2.10 

Short-term borrowings 
 41,780  
 236  
 .56  
 45,055  
 283  
 .63  
 44,473  
 318  
 .72 

Long-term borrowings 
 217,112  
 9,071  
 4.18  
 252,889  
 10,798  
 4.27  
 274,718  
 11,570  
 4.21 

Total
    interest-bearing liabilities 
 1,240,487  
 21,206  
 1.71% 
 1,539,662  
 29,164  
 1.89% 
 1,466,191  
 32,104  
 2.19%

Non-interest-bearing deposits 
 135,365  
    
    
 109,145  
    
    
 110,883  
    
   

Other liabilities 
 17,662  
    
    
 13,507  
    
    
 16,240  
    
   

Shareholders’ Equity 
 97,715  
    
    
 100,985  
    
    
 102,830  
    
   

Total
    Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 
$1,491,229  
    
    
$1,763,299  
    
    
$1,696,144  
    
   

Net
    interest income and spread 
    
$39,823  
 2.83% 
    
$43,566  
 2.63% 
    
$55,374  
 3.44%

Net interest margin 
    
    
 2.96% 
    
    
 2.71% 
    
    
 3.56%

 
Notes:

(1)The above table reflects the average rates earned or paid stated on an FTE basis assuming a tax rate of 35% for 2011, 2010
and 2009. The FTE adjustments for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $1,533, $1,983 and $1,613, respectively.

(2)The average balances of non-accrual loans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, which were reported in the
average loan balances for these years, were $39,806, $42,506 and $39,851, respectively.

(3)Net interest margin is calculated as net interest income divided by average earning assets.

(4)The average yields on investments are based on amortized cost.
 

[32]
 


 
Interest Variance Analysis (1) 
Table 2


  
2011 Compared to 2010  
2010 Compared to 2009 

(In thousands and tax equivalent basis) 
Volume  
Rate  
Net  
Volume  
Rate  
Net 

Interest Income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Loans 
$(6,605) 
$(2,167) 
$(8,772) 
$(3,328) 
$(3,828) 
$(7,156)

Taxable Investments 
 593  
 (2,036) 
 (1,443) 
 (2,829) 
 (4,753) 
 (7,582)

Non-taxable Investments 
 (1,026) 
 (264) 
 (1,290) 
 (247) 
 (197) 
 (444)

Federal funds sold 
 (196) 
 39  
 (157) 
 313  
 13  
 326 

Other interest earning assets 
 (624) 
 586  
 (38) 
 247  
 (139) 
 108 

Total interest income 
 (7,858) 
 (3,842) 
 (11,700) 
 (5,844) 
 (8,904) 
 (14,748)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest Expense: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Interest-bearing demand deposits 
 (23) 
 (230) 
 (253) 
 26  
 166  
 192 

Interest-bearing money markets 
 (206) 
 (1,465) 
 (1,671) 
 27  
 (411) 
 (384)

Savings deposits 
 47  
 (336) 
 (289) 
 47  
 21  
 68 

Time deposits less than $100 
 (1,480) 
 (672) 
 (2,152) 
 925  
 (2,364) 
 (1,439)

Time deposits $100 or more 
 (2,305) 
 485  
 (1,820) 
 593  
 (1,163) 
 (570)

Short-term borrowings 
 (18) 
 (29) 
 (47) 
 4  
 (39) 
 (35)

Long-term borrowings 
 (1,495) 
 (232) 
 (1,727) 
 (932) 
 160  
 (772)

Total interest expense 
 (5,480) 
 (2,479) 
 (7,959) 
 690  
 (3,630) 
 (2,940)

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net interest income 
$(2,378) 
$(1,363) 
$(3,741) 
$(6,534) 
$(5,274) 
$(11,808)

 
Note:

(1)The change in interest income/expense due to both volume and rate has been allocated to volume and rate changes in proportion
to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.
 
Provision for Loan Losses
 
The provision for loan
losses was $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $15.7 million for fiscal year 2010.  The lower provision
for loan losses resulted primarily from stabilization in our total rolling historical loss rates and qualitative factors utilized
in the determination of the ALL and stabilization in the level of classified assets. Approximately $.6 million of the lower provision
for 2011 was related to the sale of $32.5 million of our indirect auto portfolio in the second quarter 2011. Management strives
to ensure that the ALL reflects a level commensurate with the risk inherent in our loan portfolio.
 
Other Operating Income
 
The following table
shows the major components of other operating income for the past two years, exclusive of net gains/(losses), and the percentage
changes during these years: 
  


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
% Change 

Service charges on deposit accounts 
$3,019  
$3,765  
 -19.8%

Other service charge income 
 652  
 641  
 1.7%

Debit card income 
 2,125  
 1,580  
 34.5%

Trust department income 
 4,413  
 4,096  
 7.7%

Insurance commissions 
 2,424  
 2,712  
 -10.6%

Bank owned life insurance (BOLI) 
 1,030  
 1,019  
 1.1%

Brokerage commissions 
 767  
 694  
 10.5%

Other income 
 685  
 849  
 -19.3%

Total other operating income 
$15,115  
$15,356  
 -1.6%

 
As the table above
illustrates, other operating income decreased by $.2 million in 2011 when compared to 2010, exclusive of net losses. The decline
in service charges on deposit accounts was due primarily to a reduction in NSF fees, increased charge-off overdrafts and the new
overdraft regulation implemented in August 2010 as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act. The creation of the Consumer Protection Bureau
and its proposed regulation of overdraft fees and interchange fees
 


[33]
 

 
could
have a material and adverse impact on our future service charge income. At this time, management cannot predict whether and when
this regulation will be finalized and, if so, the extent to which it will reduce service charge income. We also experienced decreases
in other income such as fee income from our investments in Maryland and West Virginia title companies.
  
Debit card income increased
due to increased consumer spending and higher customer awareness of our rewards program. Insurance commissions decreased in 2011
when compared to 2010 due primarily to reduced premiums.
 
Trust department income
increased during 2011 when compared to 2010 due to a slight increase in assets under management and the fees received on those
account, and increased fees on estate administration. Assets under management were $595 million and $590 million for 2011 and 2010,
respectively. Brokerage commissions also increased during 2011 by 10.5% when compared to 2010.
 
Other Operating Expense
 
Other operating expense
for 2011 decreased by $3.2 million (7.1%) when compared to 2010. The following table shows the major
components of other operating expense for the past two years and the percentage changes during these years:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
% Change 

Salaries and employee benefits 
$20,225  
$21,307  
 -5.1%

Other expenses 
 7,426  
 8,409  
 -11.7%

FDIC premiums 
 2,362  
 4,017  
 -41.2%

Equipment 
 3,015  
 3,197  
 -5.7%

Occupancy 
 2,804  
 2,977  
 -5.8%

Data processing 
 2,744  
 2,637  
 4.1%

Professional services 
 1,575  
 1,388  
 13.5%

Other real estate owned expense 
 858  
 589  
 45.7%

Miscellaneous loan fees 
 849  
 528  
 60.8%

Total other operating expense 
$41,858  
$45,049  
 -7.1%

 
The $1.1 million decrease
in salaries and employee benefits during 2011 when compared to 2010 resulted primarily from a reduction
of full-time equivalent employees through attrition and reduced service costs in the pension plan. Professional services expenses
increased by 13.5% due primarily to increases in legal and consulting expenses. Other expenses decreased by 11.7% due primarily
to decreases in marketing, postage and contract labor expenses. FDIC premiums decreased 41.2% as a result of reduced balances in
deposits and a change in the deposit mix. The reduction in equipment expense resulted from a decrease in depreciation. Other real
estate owned expenses increased 45.7% due primarily to an increase in other real estate owned properties in 2011. Miscellaneous
loan fees increased 60.8% from 2010 to 2011 due primarily to an increase in problem loans.
 
Applicable Income Taxes
 
Due
to improved operating results in 2011, we recognized a smaller net tax benefit of $.6 million in 2011, compared to a net
tax benefit of $8.0 million in 2010. The decrease resulted primarily from the change in earnings, from a net loss in 2010 to net
income for 2011. The net tax benefit in 2010 resulted primarily from the $8.4 million non-cash OTTI charges on our investment portfolio
and the increased loan loss provision. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the heading “Income Taxes”
for a detailed analysis of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance has been provided
for the $1.4 million in state tax loss carry forwards included in deferred tax assets, which will expire commencing in 2030. 
 
We have concluded that
no valuation allowance is necessary for our remaining federal and state net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011, as it is
more likely than not that they will be realized based on the following:
 

·the expected reversal of all but $1.0
million of the total $4.6 million of deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2011 in such a manner so as to substantially utilize
the dollar for dollar impact against the deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011;
 

[34]
 


 

·for the remaining excess deferred tax
assets that will not be utilized by the reversal of deferred tax liabilities, our expected future income will be sufficient to
utilize the deferred tax assets as they reverse or before any net operating loss, if created, would expire; and

·tax planning strategies that can provide
both one-time increases to taxable income of up to approximately $6.0 million and recurring annual decreases in unfavorable permanent
items.
 
We will need to generate
future taxable income of approximately $75 million to fully utilize the net deferred tax assets in the years in which they are
expected to reverse. Management estimates that we can fully utilize the deferred tax assets in approximately seven years based
on the historical pre-tax income and forecasts of estimated future pre-tax income as adjusted for permanent book to tax differences.
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET REVIEW 
 
Overview
 
Our total assets were
$1.39 billion at December 31, 2011, representing a decrease of $305.6 million (18.0%) from assets at December 31, 2010. The decrease
resulted from a strategic decision to right-size our balance sheet to better reflect our current capital levels.
 
The total interest-earning
asset mix at December 31, 2011 shows a slight increase in the percentage of loans and investments and a decline in cash and cash
equivalents as a percentage of total assets from 2010 to 2011. These changes resulted from the implementation of our strategy to
use our excess liquidity to repay, rather than renew, brokered and wholesale funding obligations at their stated maturities during
the year. The mix for each year is illustrated below:
 


  
Year End Percentage  of Total Assets 

  
2011  
2010 

Cash and cash equivalents 
 5% 
 18%

Net loans 
 66% 
 58%

Investments 
 18% 
 14%

 
The year-end total
liability mix has remained consistent during the two-year period as illustrated below.
 



  
Year End Percentage  of Total Liabilities 

  
2011  
2010 

Total deposits 
 79% 
 81%

Total borrowings 
 19% 
 18%

 
Loan Portfolio
 
The Bank is actively
engaged in originating loans to customers primarily in Allegany County, Frederick County, Garrett County, and Washington County
in Maryland, and in Berkeley County, Hardy County, Mineral County, and Monongalia County in West Virginia; and the surrounding
regions of West Virginia and Pennsylvania. We have policies and procedures designed to mitigate credit risk and to maintain the
quality of our loan portfolio. These policies include underwriting standards for new credits as well as continuous monitoring and
reporting policies for asset quality and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. These policies, coupled with ongoing training
efforts, have provided effective checks and balances for the risk associated with the lending process. Lending authority is based
on the type of the loan, and the experience of the lending officer.
 
Commercial
loans are collateralized primarily by real estate and, to a lesser extent, equipment and vehicles. Unsecured commercial loans represent
an insignificant portion of total commercial loans. Residential mortgage loans are collateralized by the related property. Generally,
a residential mortgage loan exceeding a specified internal loan-to-value ratio requires private
mortgage insurance. Installment loans are typically collateralized, with loan-to-value ratios which are established based on the
financial condition of the borrower. We will also make unsecured consumer loans to qualified borrowers meeting our underwriting
standards. Additional information about our loans and underwriting policies can be
 


[35]
 

 
found
in Item 1 of Part I of this annual report under the heading “Banking Products and Services”.
  
Table
3 sets forth the composition of our loan portfolio. Historically, our policy has been to make
the majority of our loan commitments in our market areas. We had no foreign loans in our portfolio as of December 31 for any of
the years presented.
 
Summary of Loan Portfolio
 
Table 3
 
The following table
presents the composition of our loan portfolio for the past five years:
 


(In millions) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Commercial real estate 
$336.2  
$348.6  
$326.8  
$322.4  
$232.1 

Acquisition and development 
 142.9  
 156.9  
 231.7  
 227.0  
 231.0 

Commercial and industrial 
 78.7  
 70.0  
 81.3  
 77.7  
 81.5 

Residential mortgage 
 347.2  
 356.7  
 373.2  
 382.0  
 357.3 

Consumer 
 33.7  
 77.6  
 108.9  
 125.4  
 141.4 

Total Loans 
$938.7  
$1,009.8  
$1,121.9  
$1,134.5  
$1,043.3 

 
Comparing December
31, 2011 to December 31, 2010, outstanding loans decreased by $38.6 million (3.8%), net of the sale of $32.5 million of the indirect
auto portfolio. CRE loans decreased $12.4 million as a result of the payoff of several large loans, charge-offs of loan balances
and ongoing scheduled principal payments. Commercial and industrial (“C&I”) loans increased $8.7 million and residential
mortgages declined $9.5 million. Acquisition and development loans decreased $14.0 million due primarily to principal repayments
and charge offs. The decrease in the residential mortgage portfolio was attributable to regularly scheduled principal payments
on existing loans and management’s decision to use secondary market outlets such as Fannie Mae for the majority of new, longer-term,
fixed-rate residential loan originations. The consumer portfolio declined $43.9 million due primarily to the sale of $32.5 million
of retail installment contracts in our indirect auto loan portfolio and $11.4 million of repayment activity in the indirect auto
portfolio exceeded new production due to special financing offered by the automotive manufacturers, credit unions and certain large
regional banks. At December 31, 2011, approximately 64% of the commercial loan portfolio was collateralized by real estate, compared
to approximately 71% at December 31, 2010.
 
At December 31, 2011,
adjustable interest rate loans made up 63% of total loans, compared to 62% at December 31, 2010. Fixed–interest rate loans
made up 37% of the total loan portfolio at December 31, 2011, compared to 38% of total loans at December 31, 2010.
 
Comparing loans at
December 31, 2010 to loans at December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio decreased $112.1 million (10%). CRE loans increased $21.8 million,
as management focused on growing the small business loan portfolio and as certain acquisition and development (“A&D”)
loans, which decreased $74.8 million, were completed and transferred to permanent financing. The A&D category also declined
due to charged-off balances, foreclosures, and working some troubled credits out of the Bank. Commercial and industrial loans declined
$11.3 million and residential mortgage declined $16.5 million. The decrease in the residential mortgage portfolio was attributable
to the increased amount of loan refinancing that were occurring as consumers sought long-term fixed rate loans. We do not retain
these long-term fixed rate loans, but use secondary market and Fannie Mae outlets to satisfy these loan requests. The consumer
portfolio declined $31.3 million as repayment activity in the indirect auto portfolio exceeded new production resulting from the
continued slowdown in economic activity and management’s decision not to compete with the special financing offered by the
automotive manufacturers.
 

[36]
 


 
The
following table sets forth the maturities, based upon contractual dates, for selected loan categories
as of December 31, 2011:
 
Maturities of Loan Portfolio at December
31, 2011
Table 4
 


(In thousands) 
Maturing Within One Year  
After One But Within Five Years  
Maturing After Five Years  
Total 

Commercial Real Estate 
$48,244  
$48,806  
$239,184  
$336,234 

Acquisition and Development 
 53,750  
 25,437  
 63,684  
 142,871 

Commercial and Industrial 
 23,460  
 23,422  
 31,815  
 78,697 

Residential Mortgage 
 17,433  
 6,672  
 323,115  
 347,220 

Consumer 
 6,787  
 22,974  
 3,911  
 33,672 

Total Loans 
$149,674  
$127,311  
$661,709  
$938,694 

  
    
    
    
   

Classified by Sensitivity to Change in Interest Rates 
    
    
    
   

Fixed-Interest Rate Loans 
$69,059  
$105,789  
$176,439  
$351,287 

Adjustable-Interest Rate Loans 
 80,615  
 21,522  
 485,270  
 587,407 

Total Loans 
$149,674  
$127,311  
$661,709  
$938,694 

 
Management monitors
the performance and credit quality of the loan portfolio by analyzing the age of the portfolio as determined by the length of time
a recorded payment is past due. A loan is considered to be past due when a payment has not been received for 30 days past its contractual
due date. For all loan segments, the accrual of interest is discontinued when principal or interest is delinquent for 90 days or
more unless the loan is well-secured and in the process of collection. All non-accrual loans are considered to be impaired. Interest
payments received on non-accrual loans are applied as a reduction of the loan principal balance. Loans are returned to accrual
status when all principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.
Our policy for recognizing interest income on impaired loans does not differ from our overall policy for interest recognition.
 

[37]
 


 
Table 5 sets forth
the amounts of non-accrual, past-due and restructured loans for the past five years:
 
Risk Elements of Loan Portfolio
Table 5
 


  
At December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Non-accrual loans: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
$10,069  
$11,893  
$4,046  
$2,175  
$382 

Acquisition and development 
 14,938  
 16,269  
 37,244  
 16,520  
 4,977 

Commercial and industrial 
 9,364  
 1,355  
 0  
 2,338  
 0 

Residential mortgage 
 3,796  
 5,236  
 5,227  
 3,434  
 60 

Consumer 
 21  
 152  
 67  
 86  
 24 

Total non-accrual loans 
$38,188  
$34,905  
$46,584  
$24,553  
$5,443 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Accruing Loans Past Due 90 days or more: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
$0  
$0  
$0  
$513  
$166 

Acquisition and development 
 128  
 128  
 0  
 430  
 975 

Commercial and industrial 
 0  
 44  
 0  
 174  
 563 

Residential mortgage 
 1,509  
 2,437  
 1,483  
 1,686  
 1,004 

Consumer 
 142  
 183  
 287  
 673  
 552 

Total accruing loans past due 90 days or more 
$1,779  
$2,792  
$1,770  
$3,476  
$3,260 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total non-accrual and accruing loans past due 90 days or more 
$39,967  
$37,697  
$48,354  
$28,029  
$8,703 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Restructured Loans (TDRs): 
    
    
    
    
   

Performing 
$10,657  
$5,506  
$22,160  
$349  
$0 

Non-accrual (included above) 
 7,385  
 9,593  
 13,321  
 119  
 0 

Total TDRs 
$18,042  
$15,099  
$35,481  
$468  
$0 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Other Real Estate Owned 
$16,676  
$18,072  
$7,591  
$2,424  
$825 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Impaired loans without a valuation allowance 
$41,778  
$42,890  
$102,553  
$66,816  
$6,814 

Impaired loans with a valuation allowance 
 20,048  
 19,713  
 28,677  
 16,519  
 176 

Total impaired loans 
$61,826  
$62,603  
$131,230  
$83,335  
$6,990 

Valuation allowance related to impaired loans 
$3,951  
$4,366  
$7,624  
$4,759  
$176 

  
Non-Accrual Loans as a % of Applicable Portfolio 
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Commercial real estate 
 3.0% 
 3.4% 
 1.2% 
 .7% 
 .2%

Acquisition and development 
 10.5% 
 10.4% 
 16.1% 
 7.3% 
 2.2%

Commercial and industrial 
 11.9% 
 1.9% 
 0  
 3.0% 
 0 

Residential mortgage 
 1.1% 
 1.5% 
 1.4% 
 .9% 
 .02%

Consumer 
 .1% 
 .2% 
 .1% 
 .1% 
 .02%

 
Interest income not
recognized as a result of placing loans on non-accrual status was $1.9 million, and there was no interest income recognized on
these loans during 2011.
 
Performing loans considered
to be impaired (including performing troubled debt restructurings, or TDRs), as defined and identified by management, amounted
to $23.6 million at December 31, 2011 and $27.7 million at December 31, 2010. Loans are identified as impaired when, based on current
information and events, management determines that we
 


[38]
 

 
will
be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms. These loans consist primarily of A&D loans and CRE loans.
The fair values are generally determined based upon independent third party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows
based upon the expected proceeds. Specific allocations have been made where management believes there is insufficient collateral
to repay the loan balance if liquidated and there is no secondary source of repayment available.
  
The
level of performing impaired loans (other than performing TDRs) decreased $9.2 million during the year ended December 31,
2011. Two CRE loans totaling $1.3 million were removed from impaired status due to satisfactory payment
performance. Three A&D loans, two CRE loans and one residential mortgage loan, totaling $3.8 million, that were previously
deemed to be performing impaired loans were modified and classified as performing TDRs. One $2.3 million A&D loan that was
previously deemed to be a performing impaired loan was transferred to non-performing, and net principal repayments totaling $1.8
million were received on other loans deemed to be performing impaired loans during the year. Management will continue to monitor
all loans that have been removed from an impaired status and take appropriate steps to ensure that satisfactory performance is
sustained. 
 
The following table
presents the details of TDRs by loan class at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

(in thousands) 
Number of
 Contracts  
Recorded
 Investment  
Number of
 Contracts  
Recorded
 Investment 

Performing 
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
 2  
$287  
 0  
$0 

All other CRE 
 1  
 3,162  
 0  
 0 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 1  
 2,489  
 0  
 0 

All other A&D 
 4  
 2,645  
 4  
 2,778 

Commercial and industrial 
 1  
 693  
 1  
 717 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage – term 
 5  
 1,381  
 7  
 2,011 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Consumer 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Total performing 
 14  
$10,657  
 12  
$5,506 

  
    
    
    
   

Non-accrual 
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
 1  
$448  
 2  
$1,630 

All other CRE 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

All other A&D 
 7  
 6,719  
 5  
 6,361 

Commercial and industrial 
 0  
 0  
 1  
 1,355 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage – term 
 1  
 218  
 2  
 247 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Consumer 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Total non-accrual 
 9  
 7,385  
 10  
 9,593 

Total TDRs 
 23  
$18,042  
 22  
$15,099 

 
The level of TDRs increased
$2.9 million during 2011, reflecting the addition of 10 loans totaling $9.2 million to performing TDRs and the addition of one
loan totaling $.2 million to non-accrual TDRs. One performing TDR totaling $.3 million and two non-accrual TDRs totaling $.7 million
were repaid during the year. Loans totaling $1.0 million that had been modified at market rates prior to 2011 were removed from
performing TDRs in 2011 because the borrowers had made at least six consecutive payments and were current at the time of reclassification.
During 2011, principal payments of
 


[39]
 

 
$.3
million and $2.4 million were received on performing TDRs and non-accrual TDRs, respectively. During 2011, there were partial
charge-offs of $.2 million on two performing TDRs and full charge-offs of one $.5 million non-accrual C&I TDR and one $1.1
million non-accrual non-owner occupied CRE TDR. Two performing A&D TDRs totaling $2.3 million were transferred to non-accrual
during 2011.
  
At December 31, 2011,
additional funds of up to $1.6 million were committed to be advanced in connection with TDRs. Interest income not recognized due
to rate modifications of TDRs was $.1 million, and interest income recognized on all TDRs was $.4 million in 2011.
 
Allowance for Loan Losses
 
The ALL is maintained
to absorb losses from the loan portfolio. The ALL is based on management’s continuing evaluation of the quality of the loan
portfolio, assessment of current economic conditions, diversification and size of the portfolio, adequacy of collateral, past and
anticipated loss experience, and the amount of non-performing loans.
 
The ALL is also based
on estimates, and actual losses will vary from current estimates. These estimates are reviewed quarterly, and as adjustments, either
positive or negative, become necessary, a corresponding increase or decrease is made in the ALL. The methodology used to determine
the adequacy of the ALL is consistent with prior years. An estimate for probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments,
such as letters of credit and binding but unfunded loan commitments is also prepared. This estimate is computed in a manner similar
to the methodology described above, adjusted for the probability of actually funding the commitment.
 
The ALL decreased to
$19.5 million at December 31, 2011 from $22.1 million at December 31, 2010. The provision for loan losses for the year ended December
31, 2011 decreased to $9.2 million from $15.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Net charge-offs declined to $11.8 million
at December 31, 2011 from $13.7 million at December 31, 2010. Included in the net charge-offs for the year ended December 31, 2011
were partial charge-offs of $5.1 million for two large CRE loans and $1.5 million for one other A&D loan. The decrease in the
provision for loan losses from 2010 to 2011 resulted from management’s analysis of the adequacy of the loan loss reserve,
declining loan balances, charge-offs and improving economic conditions as noted by the Federal Reserve. The sale of $32.5 million
of the indirect auto portfolio, which released $.6 million in provision expense, was a contributing factor to the lower provision
expense. The ratio of the ALL to loans outstanding as of December 31, 2011 was 2.08%, compared to 2.19% as of December 31, 2010.
The decrease was due to a focused effort by management to recognize potential problem loans, charge-off potentially uncollectible
balances, and record specific allocations and adjust qualitative factors to reflect the current quality of the loan portfolio.
 
The ratio of net charge-offs
to average loans for the year ended December 31, 2011 totaled 1.24%, compared to 1.28% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Relative
to December 31, 2010, all segments of loans, with the exception of CRE loans, showed improvement. The net charge-off ratio for
CRE loans as of December 31, 2011 was 2.02%, compared to .13% as of December 31, 2010 as a result of the $5.1 million partial charge-offs
described above. The net charge-off ratio for A&D loans as of December 31, 2011 was 1.91%, compared to 4.46% as of December
31, 2010. The ratios for C&I loans were .99% and 2.23% for December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The ratios
for residential mortgage loans were .32% and .44% for December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The ratios for consumer loans were
1.17% and 1.34% for December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Accruing loans past
due 30 days or more declined to 2.86% of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2011, compared to 3.62% at December 31, 2010. The delinquency
ratio in the consumer segment at December 31, 2011 was 6.45%, compared to 3.87% at December 31, 2010, and was negatively impacted
by the sale of $32.5 million of our indirect auto portfolio, although the 30 days or more past due loans declined by $.8 million.
Other improvements in the levels of past-due loans were attributable to a combination of a slowly improving economy and vigorous
collection efforts by the Bank.
 
Non-accrual loans totaled
$38.2 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $34.9 million as of December 31, 2010. Non-accrual loans which have been subject
to a partial charge-off totaled $13.4 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $2.9 million as of December 31, 2010.
 
Management believes
that the ALL at December 31, 2011 is adequate to provide for probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Amounts that will
be recorded for the provision for loan losses in future periods will depend upon trends in the loan balances, including the composition
of the loan portfolio, changes in loan quality and loss experience trends, potential recoveries on previously charged-off loans
and changes in other qualitative factors. Management also applies
 


[40]
 

 
interest
rate risk, collateral value and debt service sensitivity analyses to the CRE loan portfolio and obtains new appraisals on specific
loans under defined parameters to assist in the determination of the periodic provision for loan losses.
  
The ALL increased to
$22.1 million at December 31, 2010 from $20.1 million at December 31, 2009. The provision for loan losses remained stable for the
year ended December 31, 2010 at $15.7 million, compared to $15.6 million for fiscal year 2009. Net charge-offs increased to $13.7
million at December 31, 2010 from $9.8 million at December 31, 2009. As part of our loan review process, management noted an increase
in foreclosures and bankruptcies in the geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, the current economic environment caused
a decline in real estate sales. Consequently, we closely reviewed and applied sensitivity analyses to collateral values to more
adequately measure potential future losses. Where necessary, we obtained new appraisals on collateral. Specific allocations of
the ALL were provided in those instances where we believed that losses might occur. As of December 31, 2010, the balance of the
ALL was equal to 2.19% of total loans.
 
Table 6 presents the
activity in the allowance for loan losses by major loan category for the past five years.
 
Analysis of Activity in the Allowance
for Loan Losses
Table 6



  
For the Years Ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Balance, January 1 
$22,138  
$20,090  
$14,347  
$7,304  
$6,530 

Charge-offs: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
 (6,886) 
 (543) 
 (729) 
 (109) 
 (10)

Acquisition and development 
 (3,055) 
 (9,770) 
 (3,902) 
 (838) 
 (211)

Commercial and industrial 
 (840) 
 (2,225) 
 (2,246) 
 (2,951) 
 (152)

Residential mortgage 
 (1,664) 
 (2,008) 
 (1,495) 
 (672) 
 (213)

Consumer 
 (893) 
 (1,791) 
 (2,413) 
 (2,025) 
 (1,636)

Total charge-offs 
 (13,338) 
 (16,337) 
 (10,785) 
 (6,595) 
 (2,222)

Recoveries: 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
 95  
 94  
 103  
 0  
 0 

Acquisition and development 
 322  
 1,097  
 40  
 23  
 0 

Commercial and industrial 
 57  
 538  
 201  
 33  
 45 

Residential mortgage 
 550  
 391  
 80  
 120  
 14 

Consumer 
 499  
 539  
 516  
 537  
 625 

Total recoveries 
 1,523  
 2,659  
 940  
 713  
 684 

Net credit losses 
 (11,815) 
 (13,678) 
 (9,845) 
 (5,882) 
 (1,538)

Provision for loan losses 
 9,157  
 15,726  
 15,588  
 12,925  
 2,312 

Balance at end of period 
$19,480  
$22,138  
$20,090  
$14,347  
$7,304 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for loan losses to loans outstanding (as %) 
 2.08% 
 2.19% 
 1.79% 
 1.26% 
 0.70%

Net charge-offs to average loans outstanding during the period, annualized (as %) 
 1.24% 
 1.28% 
 0.87% 
 0.54% 
 0.15%

 
Table 7 presents management’s
allocation of the ALL by major loan category in comparison to that loan category’s percentage of total loans.
Changes in the allocation over time reflect changes in the composition of the loan portfolio risk profile and refinements to the
methodology of determining the ALL. Specific allocations in any particular category may be reallocated in the future as needed
to reflect current conditions. Accordingly, the entire ALL is considered available to absorb losses in any category.
 

[41]
 


 
Allocation of the Allowance for Loan
Losses
Table 7
 


  
For the Years Ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
% of Total
    Loans  
2010  
% of Total
    Loans  
2009  
% of Total
    Loans  
2008  
% of Total Loans  
2007  
% of Total
    Loans 

Commercial real estate 
$6,218  
 36% 
$8,658  
 35% 
$5,351  
 29% 
$3,289  
 28% 
$1,568  
 22%

Acquisition and development 
 7,190  
 15% 
 6,345  
 16% 
 7,922  
 21% 
 3,396  
 20% 
 1,641  
 22%

Commercial and industrial 
 2,190  
 8% 
 1,345  
 7% 
 1,945  
 7% 
 2,318  
 7% 
 615  
 8%

Residential mortgage 
 3,430  
 37% 
 4,211  
 35% 
 3,061  
 33% 
 3,437  
 34% 
 1,830  
 34%

Consumer 
 452  
 4% 
 1,579  
 7% 
 1,811  
 10% 
 1,907  
 11% 
 1,650  
 14%

Total 
$19,480  
 100% 
$22,138  
 100% 
$20,090  
 100% 
$14,347  
 100% 
$7,304  
 100%

 
Investment Securities
 
Investment securities
classified as available-for-sale are held for an indefinite period of time and may be sold in response
to changing market and interest rate conditions or for liquidity purposes as part of our overall asset/liability management strategy.
Available-for-sale securities are reported at market value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported
as a separate component of other comprehensive income included in shareholders’ equity, net of applicable income taxes. 
For additional information, see Notes 1 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The following table
sets forth the composition of our available-for-sale securities portfolio, reported at fair value, by major category as of the
indicated dates:
 
Table 8
 


  
At December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

(In thousands) 
Amortized
    Cost  
Fair Value
    (FV)  
FV As % of
    Total  
Amortized
    Cost  
Fair Value
    (FV)  
FV As % of
    Total  
Amortized
    Cost  
Fair Value
    (FV)  
FV As % of
    Total 

Securities Available-for-Sale: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government
    agencies 
$25,490  
$25,580  
 11% 
$24,813  
$24,850  
 11% 
$68,487  
$68,263  
 25%

Residential mortgage-
    backed agencies 
 129,019  
 130,402  
 53% 
 98,109  
 99,613  
 43% 
 59,640  
 62,573  
 23%

Collateralized mortgage
    obligations 
 10,843  
 10,778  
 4% 
 763  
 662  
 1% 
 40,809  
 33,197  
 12%

Obligations of states
    and political subdivisions 
 65,424  
 68,816  
 28% 
 94,250  
 94,724  
 41% 
 95,190  
 97,303  
 35%

Collateralized
    debt obligations 
 36,385  
 9,447  
 4% 
 36,533  
 9,838  
 4% 
 44,478  
 12,448  
 5%

Total 
$267,161  
$245,023  
 100% 
$254,468  
$229,687  
 100% 
$308,604  
$273,784  
 100%

 
Total investment securities
increased $15.3 million during 2011 when compared to the balance at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, the securities classified
as available-for-sale included a net unrealized loss of $22.1 million, which represents the difference between the fair value and
amortized cost of securities in the portfolio and is primarily attributable to the CDOs.
 
As discussed in Note
23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we measure fair market values based on the fair value hierarchy
established in ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable
inputs (Level 3 measurements). Level 3 prices or valuation techniques require inputs that are both significant to the valuation
assumptions and are not readily observable in the market (i.e. supported with little or no market activity). These Level 3 instruments
are valued based on both observable and unobservable inputs derived from the best available data, some of which is internally developed,
and considers risk premiums that a market participant would require.
  
Approximately $235.6
million of the available-for-sale portfolio was valued using Level 2 pricing and had net unrealized gains of $4.8 million at December
31, 2011. The remaining $9.4 million of the securities available-for-sale
 


[42]
 

 
represents
the entire CDO portfolio, which was valued using significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 pricing. The $26.9 million in unrealized
losses associated with this portfolio relates to 18 pooled trust preferred securities that comprise the CDO portfolio. Unrealized
losses of $17.7 million represent non-credit related OTTI charges on 13 of the securities, while $9.2 million of unrealized losses
relates to five securities which have no credit related OTTI. The unrealized losses on these securities are primarily attributable
to continued depression in the marketability and liquidity associated with CDOs.
 
The following table
provides a summary of the trust preferred securities in the CDO portfolio and the credit status of the securities as of December
31, 2011.
 

 
The terms of the debentures
underlying trust preferred securities allow the issuer of the debentures to defer interest payments for up to 20 quarters, and,
in such case, the terms of the related trust preferred securities require their issuers to contemporaneously defer dividend payments.
The issuers of the trust preferred securities in our investment portfolio have defaulted and/or deferred payments, ranging from
7.08% to 40.41% of the total collateral balances underlying the securities. The securities were designed to include structural
features that provide investors with credit enhancement or support to provide default protection by subordinated tranches. These
features include over-collateralization of the notes or subordination, excess interest or spread which will redirect funds in
situations where collateral is insufficient, and a specified order of principal payments. There are securities in our portfolio
that are under-collateralized, which does represent additional stress on our tranche. However, in these cases, the terms of the
securities require excess interest to be redirected from subordinate tranches as credit support, which provides additional support
to our investment.
 
Management systematically
evaluates securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. Based upon application of Topic 320 (ASC Section 320-10-35), management
must assess whether (i) it has the intent to sell the security and (ii) it is more likely than not that First United
Corporation will be required to sell the security prior to its anticipated recovery. If neither applies,
then declines in the fair value of securities below their cost that are considered other-than-temporary declines are split
into two components. The first is the loss attributable to declining credit quality. Credit losses are recognized in earnings as
realized losses in the period in which the impairment determination is made. The second component consists of all other losses.
The other losses are recognized in other comprehensive income. In estimating OTTI charges, management considers (a) the length
of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (b) adverse conditions specifically related to the security,
an industry, or a geographic area, (c) the historic and implied volatility of the security, (d) changes in the rating of a security
by a rating agency, (e) recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date, (f) failure of the
issuer of the security to make scheduled interest payments, and (g) the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood
of the issuer being able to make payments that increase in the future. Due to the duration and the significant market value decline
in the pooled trust preferred securities held in our portfolio, we performed more extensive testing on these securities for purposes
of evaluating whether or not an OTTI has occurred.
 

[43]
 


  
The market for these
securities as of December 31, 2011 is not active and markets for similar securities are also not active. The inactivity was evidenced
first by a significant widening of the bid-ask spread in the brokered markets in which these securities trade and then by a significant
decrease in the volume of trades relative to historical levels. The new issue market is also inactive, as no new CDOs have been
issued since 2007. There are currently very few market participants who are willing to transact for these securities. The market
values for these securities, or any securities other than those issued or guaranteed by the Treasury, are very depressed relative
to historical levels. Therefore, in the current market, a low market price for a particular bond may only provide evidence of stress
in the credit markets in general rather than being an indicator of credit problems with a particular issue. Given the conditions
in the current debt markets and the absence of observable transactions in the secondary and new issue markets, management has determined
that (i) the few observable transactions and market quotations that are available are not reliable for the purpose of obtaining
fair value at December 31, 2011, (ii) an income valuation approach technique (i.e. present value) that maximizes the use of relevant
observable inputs and minimizes the use of observable inputs will be equally or more representative of fair value than a market
approach, and (iii) the CDO segment is appropriately classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy because management determined
that significant adjustments were required to determine fair value at the measurement date.
 
Management utilizes
an independent third party to prepare both the evaluations of OTTI and the fair value determinations for our CDO
portfolio. Management believes that there were no material differences in the impairment evaluations and pricing between December
31, 2010 and December 31, 2011.
 
The
approach of the third party to determine fair value involved several steps, including detailed credit and structural evaluation
of each piece of collateral in each bond, default, recovery and prepayment/amortization probabilities for each piece of collateral
in the bond, and discounted cash flow modeling. The discount rate methodology used by the third party combines a baseline
current market yield for comparable corporate and structured credit products with adjustments based on evaluations of the differences
found in structure and risks associated with actual and projected credit performance of each CDO being valued. Currently, there
is an active and liquid trading market only for stand-alone trust preferred securities. Therefore, adjustments to the baseline
discount rate are also made to reflect the additional leverage found in structured instruments.
 
Based upon a review
of credit quality and the cash flow tests performed by the independent third party, management determined that one security had
credit-related OTTI during 2011. As a result, we recorded $19,000 in credit-related non-cash OTTI charges on the CDO security in
earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. Management does not intend to sell this security nor
is it more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security prior to recovery. 
 
The risk-based capital
regulations require banks to set aside additional capital for securities that are rated below investment grade. Securities rated
one level below investment grade require a 200% risk weighting. Additional methods are applicable to securities rated more than
one level below investment grade. Management believes that, as of December 31, 2011, we maintain sufficient capital and liquidity
to cover the additional capital requirements of these securities and future operating expenses. Additionally, we do not anticipate
any material commitments or expected outlays of capital in the near term.
 
Table 9 sets forth
the contractual or estimated maturities of the components of our securities portfolio as of December 31, 2011 and the weighted
average yields on a tax-equivalent basis.
 

[44]
 


 
Investment Security Maturities, Yields,
and Fair Values at December 31, 2011
Table 9 


  
   
1 Year  
5 Years  
Over  
Total 

  
Within  
To 5  
To 10  
10  
Fair 

(In thousands) 
1 Year  
Years  
Years  
Years  
Value 

Securities Available-for-Sale: 
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$1,716  
$0  
$23,864  
$0  
$25,580 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
 0  
 80,036  
 18,935  
 31,431  
 130,402 

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
 0  
 557  
 10,221  
 0  
 10,778 

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 0  
 0  
 18,956  
 49,860  
 68,816 

Collateralized debt obligations 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 9,447  
 9,447 

Total 
$1,716  
$80,593  
$71,976  
$90,738  
$245,023 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Percentage of total 
 .70% 
 32.89% 
 29.26% 
 37.15% 
 100.00%

Weighted average yield 
 2.25% 
 2.62% 
 3.05% 
 3.90% 
 3.29%

 
The weighted average
yield was calculated using historical cost balances and does not give effect to changes in fair value. At December 31, 2011, we
did not hold any securities in the name of any one issuer exceeding 10% of shareholders’ equity.
 
Deposits
 
Table
10 sets forth the actual and average deposit balances by major category for 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 
Deposit Balances 
Table 10 


  
   
2011  
   
   
2010  
   
   
2009  
  

  
Actual  
Average  
Average  
Actual  
Average  
Average  
Actual  
Average  
Average 

(In thousands) 
Balance  
Balance  
Yield  
Balance  
Balance  
Yield  
Balance  
Balance  
Yield 

Non-interest-bearing 
    demand deposits 
$149,888  
$135,365  
 0  
$121,142  
$109,145  
 0  
$106,976  
$110,883  
 0 

Interest-bearing deposits: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Demand 
 101,492  
 98,395  
 .14% 
 100,472  
 115,478  
 .34% 
 100,856  
 107,869  
 .18%

Money Market: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Retail 
 219,488  
 216,390  
 .32% 
 217,401  
 218,571  
 .67% 
 227,520  
 222,512  
 .90%

Brokered 
 0  
 7,913  
 .87% 
 55,545  
 68,068  
 1.03% 
 74,800  
 60,918  
 .96%

Savings deposits 
 102,561  
 100,598  
 .28% 
 93,543  
 83,734  
 .68% 
 76,504  
 76,703  
 .65%

Time deposits less than $100K 
 216,324  
 290,651  
 1.94% 
 278,588  
 366,922  
 2.13% 
 344,802  
 323,409  
 2.86%

Time deposits $100K or more: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Retail 
 185,045  
 171,557  
 2.32% 
 221,564  
 127,590  
 1.18% 
 138,877  
 143,589  
 2.68%

Brokered/CDARS 
 52,986  
 96,091  
 1.01% 
 213,391  
 261,355  
 2.38% 
 233,831  
 212,000  
 1.01%

Total Deposits 
$1,027,784  
$1,116,960  
    
$1,301,646  
$1,350,863  
    
$1,304,166  
$1,257,883  
   

 
Total
deposits decreased $273.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 when compared to deposits at December 31, 2010. Non-interest
bearing deposits increased $28.7 million. Traditional savings accounts increased $9.0 million due to continued growth in our Prime
Saver product. Total money market accounts decreased $53.4 million due to the repayment of $55.5 million in brokered accounts.
Time deposits less than $100,000 declined $62.3 million and time deposits greater than $100,000 decreased $196.9 million. The decrease
in time deposits greater than $100,000 was primarily due to the repayment of $105.5 million in brokered certificates of deposit
and $54.9 million of maturities in our CDARS®
product. Although brokered deposits are at very low rates in the current environment, management made the decision to right-size
the balance sheet by using cash to repay brokered deposits and to allow certificates of deposit for non-relationship customers
to run off. 
  
The decline in deposits
during 2011 was due to the strategic plan to reduce cash levels by paying off certain brokered deposits, FHLB advances and public
money at their maturities. Also during 2011, our internal treasury team developed a strategy to increase our net interest margin
by changing the mix of our deposit base and focusing on customers with full banking relationships.
 

[45]
 


 
The following table
sets forth the maturities of time deposits of $100,000 or more:
 
Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000
or More
Table 11


  
December 

(In thousands) 
31, 2011 

Maturities 
   

3 Months or Less 
$39,238 

3-6 Months 
 51,153 

6-12 Months 
 40,015 

Over 1 Year 
 107,625 

Total 
$238,031 

 
Borrowed Funds
 
The following shows
the composition of our borrowings at December 31:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
$36,868  
$39,139  
$47,563 

Total short-term borrowings 
$36,868  
$39,139  
$47,563 

  
    
    
   

Long-term FHLB advances 
 160,314  
 196,370  
 227,423 

Junior subordinated debentures 
 46,730  
 46,730  
 43,121 

Total long-term borrowings 
 207,044  
 243,100  
 270,544 

  
    
    
   

Total borrowings 
$243,912  
$282,239  
$318,107 

  
    
    
   

Average balance (from Table 1) 
$258,892  
$297,944  
$319,191 

 
The following is a
summary of short-term borrowings at December 31 with original maturities of less than one year:


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: 
    
    
   

Outstanding at end of year 
$36,868  
$39,139  
$47,563 

Weighted average interest rate at year end 
 0.64% 
 0.72% 
 0.66%

Maximum amount outstanding as of any month end 
$51,403  
$49,940  
$50,052 

Average amount outstanding 
 41,728  
 41,434  
 43,887 

Approximate weighted average rate during the year 
 0.56% 
 0.68% 
 0.71%

 
Total borrowings decreased
by $38.3 million, or 14%, in 2011 when compared to 2010, while the average balance of borrowings decreased by $39.1 million during
the same period. This decrease in 2011 was due to the $2.3 million decline in short-term borrowings as our Treasury Management
customers used their deposits during 2011 and our repayment of $36.1 million in long-term FHLB advances during the year.
  
Total borrowings decreased
by $35.9 million or 11% in 2010 when compared to 2009, while the average balance of borrowings decreased by $21.2 million during
the same period. This decrease in 2010 was due to the $8.4 million decline in short-term borrowings as our Treasury Management
customers used their deposits during 2010 and our repayment of $30.0 million in long-term FHLB advances during the year. These
decreases were offset by an increase of $3.6 million in TPS Debentures that were issued to Trust III in January 2010.
 
Management will continue
to closely monitor interest rates within the context of its overall asset-liability management process. See the discussion under
the heading “Interest Rate Sensitivity” in this Item 7 for further information on this topic.
 

[46]
 


 
As of December 31,
2011, we had additional borrowing capacity with the FHLB totaling $10 million, an additional $26 million of unused lines of credit
with various financial institutions, $9 million of an unused secured line of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank and approximately
$154 million through wholesale money market funds. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details about
our borrowings and additional borrowing capacity, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Capital Resources
 
The Bank and First
United Corporation are subject to risk-based capital regulations, which were adopted and are monitored by federal banking regulators.
These regulations are used to evaluate capital adequacy and require an analysis of an institution’s asset risk profile and
off-balance sheet exposures, such as unused loan commitments and stand-by letters of credit. The regulations require that a portion
of total capital be Tier 1 capital, consisting of common shareholders’ equity, the qualifying portion of trust issued preferred
securities, and perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and certain other deductions. The remaining capital, or Tier 2 capital,
consists of subordinated debt, mandatory convertible debt, the remaining portion of trust issued preferred securities, grandfathered
senior debt and the ALL, subject to certain limitations.
 
Under the risk-based
capital regulations, banking organizations are required to maintain a minimum 8% (10% for well capitalized banks) total risk-based
capital ratio (total qualifying capital divided by risk-weighted assets), including a Tier 1 ratio of 4% (6% for well capitalized
banks). The risk-based capital rules have been further supplemented by a leverage ratio, defined as Tier I capital divided by average
assets, after certain adjustments. The minimum leverage ratio is 4% (5% for well capitalized banks) for banking organizations that
do not anticipate significant growth and have well-diversified risk (including no undue interest rate risk exposure), excellent
asset quality, high liquidity and good earnings. Other banking organizations not in this category are expected to have ratios of
at least 4-5%, depending on their particular condition and growth plans. Regulators may require higher capital ratios when warranted
by the particular circumstances or risk profile of a given banking organization. In the current regulatory environment, banking
organizations must stay well capitalized in order to receive favorable regulatory treatment on acquisition and other expansion
activities and favorable risk-based deposit insurance assessments. Our capital policy establishes guidelines meeting these regulatory
requirements and takes into consideration current or anticipated risks as well as potential future growth opportunities.
 
At December 31, 2011,
First United Corporation’s total risk-based capital ratio was 13.05% and the Bank’s total risk-based capital ratio
was 13.38%, both of which were well above the regulatory minimum of 8%. The total risk-based capital ratios of First United Corporation
and the Bank for year-end 2010 were 11.57% and 11.53%, respectively.
 
As of December 31,
2011, the most recent notification from the regulators categorizes First United Corporation and the Bank as “well capitalized”
under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
information regarding regulatory capital ratios.
 
Total shareholders’
equity increased $1.1 million to $96.7 million at December 31, 2011, from $95.6 million at December 31, 2010, primarily due to
an increase in retained earnings. The return on average equity (ROE) for 2011 increased to 3.71% from (10.10%) for 2010.
 
In
January 2009, pursuant to the Treasury’s TARP CPP and in return for $30 million, First United Corporation sold to
the Treasury the shares of its Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant to purchase 326,323 shares of its common stock for an exercise
price of $13.79 per share. The proceeds from this transaction count as Tier 1 capital and the Warrant qualifies as tangible common
equity. Information about the terms of these securities is provided in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
The
terms of the Series A Preferred Stock call for the payment, if declared by the board of directors of First United Corporation,
of a quarterly cash dividend on February 15th, May 15th, August 15th and November 15th
of each year. At the request of the Reserve Bank, First United Corporation deferred the payment of cash dividends on the Series
A Preferred Stock beginning with the payment that was due on November 15, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, this deferral election
remained in effect and dividends of $.4 million per quarterly dividend period continue to accrue. First United Corporation will
be required to pay all accrued and unpaid dividends if and when the board of directors declares and pays the next quarterly cash
dividend. Management cannot predict whether or when the board of directors will resume quarterly cash dividends on the Series
A Preferred Stock. First United Corporation’s ability to make dividend payments in the future will depend primarily on our
earnings in future periods.
 

[47]
 


 
On
December 15, 2010, also at the request of the Reserve Bank, the board of directors of First United Corporation elected to defer
quarterly interest payments under the TPS Debentures beginning with the payment that was due
in March 2011. As of December 31, 2011, this deferral election remained in effect and cumulative deferred interest was approximately
$2.2 million, which has been fully accrued and must be paid in full when the board of directors elects to terminate the deferral.
First United Corporation’s ability to resume quarterly interest payments will depend primarily on our earnings in
future periods. Accordingly, no assurance can be given as to if or when First United Corporation will resume the payment of interest
under the TPS Debentures.
 
In connection with,
and as a result of, the aforementioned deferrals, the board of directors of First United Corporation voted to suspend the declaration
of quarterly cash dividends on the common stock until further notice. The payment of cash dividends on the common stock is at the
discretion of the board of directors and is dependent on our earnings in future periods. In addition, cash dividends on the common
stock may be paid only if all accrued and unpaid interest due under the TPS Debentures and all accrued and unpaid dividends due
under the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid in full. There can be no assurance as to if or when First United Corporation
will resume the payment of cash dividends on the common stock.
 
Liquidity Management
 
Liquidity is a financial
institution’s capability to meet customer demands for deposit withdrawals and pay its other obligations while funding all
credit-worthy loans. The factors that determine the institution’s liquidity are:
 

·Reliability and stability of core deposits;

·Cash flow structure and pledging status
of investments; and

·Potential for unexpected loan demand.
 
We actively manage
our liquidity position through weekly meetings of a sub-committee of executive management, known as the Treasury Sub-Committee,
which looks forward 12 months at 30-day intervals. The measurement is based upon the projection of funds sold or purchased position,
along with ratios and trends developed to measure dependence on purchased funds and core growth. Monthly reviews by management
and quarterly reviews by the Asset and Liability Committee under prescribed policies and procedures are designed to ensure that
we will maintain adequate levels of available funds.
 
It is our policy to
manage our affairs so that liquidity needs are fully satisfied through normal Bank operations. That is, the Bank will manage its
liquidity to minimize the need to make unplanned sales of assets or to borrow funds under emergency conditions. The Bank will use
funding sources where the interest cost is relatively insensitive to market changes in the short run (periods of one year or less)
to satisfy operating cash needs. The remaining normal funding will come from interest-sensitive liabilities, either deposits or
borrowed funds. When the marginal cost of needed wholesale funding is lower than the cost of raising this funding in the retail
markets, the Bank may supplement retail funding with external funding sources such as:
 

·Unsecured Fed Funds lines of credit with
upstream correspondent banks (FTN Financial, M&T Bank, Atlantic Central Banker’s Bank, Community Banker’s Bank);

·Secured advances with the FHLB of Atlanta,
which are collateralized by eligible one to four family residential mortgage portfolio, home equity lines of credit portfolio,
CRE loan portfolio, and various securities. Cash may also be pledged as collateral;

·Secured line of credit with the Fed Discount
Window for use in borrowing funds up to 90 days, using municipal securities as collateral;

·Brokered deposits, including CDs and money
market funds, provide a method to generate deposits quickly. These deposits are strictly rate driven but often provide the most
cost effective means of funding growth; and

·One Way Buy CDARS® funding –
a form of brokered deposits that has become a viable supplement to brokered deposits obtained directly.
 
During 2011, management
implemented a strategic plan to utilize excess liquidity to repay brokered deposits, non-relationship certificates of deposit and
wholesale FHLB advances at their stated maturities. Reduction in these liabilities, deemed to be volatile funding by regulatory
definition, should not have an impact on our levels of liquidity.
 

[48]
 


 
Management believes
that we have adequate liquidity available to respond to current and anticipated liquidity demands and is unaware of any trends
or demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will materially affect our ability to maintain liquidity at satisfactory
levels.
 
Market Risk and Interest
Sensitivity
 
Our primary market
risk is interest rate fluctuation. Interest rate risk results primarily from the traditional banking activities that we engage
in, such as gathering deposits and extending loans. Many factors, including economic and financial conditions, movements in interest
rates and consumer preferences affect the difference between the interest earned on our assets and the interest paid on our liabilities.
Interest rate sensitivity refers to the degree that earnings will be impacted by changes in the prevailing level of interest rates.
Interest rate risk arises from mismatches in the repricing or maturity characteristics between interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
Management seeks to minimize fluctuating net interest margins, and to enhance consistent growth of net interest income through
periods of changing interest rates. Management uses interest sensitivity gap analysis and simulation models to measure and manage
these risks. The interest rate sensitivity gap analysis assigns each interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability to a
time frame reflecting its next repricing or maturity date. The differences between total interest-sensitive assets and liabilities
at each time interval represent the interest sensitivity gap for that interval. A positive gap generally indicates that rising
interest rates during a given interval will increase net interest income, as more assets than liabilities will reprice. A negative
gap position would benefit us during a period of declining interest rates.
 
Throughout 2010 and
2011, we shifted our focus from a shorter duration balance sheet to a more neutral to slightly asset sensitive position, as we
anticipated a rising interest rate environment in the future. As of December 31, 2011, we were slightly asset sensitive.
 
Our interest rate
risk management goals are:
 

·Ensure that the board of directors and
senior management will provide effective oversight and ensure that risks are adequately identified, measured, monitored and controlled;

·Enable dynamic measurement and management
of interest rate risk;

·Select strategies that optimize our ability
to meet our long-range financial goals while maintaining interest rate risk within policy limits established by the Board of Directors;

·Use both income and market value oriented
techniques to select strategies that optimize the relationship between risk and return; and

·Establish interest rate risk exposure
limits for fluctuation in net interest income (“NII”), net income and economic value of equity.
 
In order to manage
interest sensitivity risk, management formulates guidelines regarding asset generation and pricing, funding sources and pricing,
and off-balance sheet commitments. These guidelines are based on management’s outlook regarding future interest rate movements,
the state of the regional and national economy, and other financial and business risk factors. Management uses computer simulations
to measure the effect on net interest income of various interest rate scenarios. Key assumptions used in the computer simulations
include cash flows and maturities of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities, changes in asset volumes and pricing, and
management’s capital plans. This modeling reflects interest rate changes and the related impact on net interest income over
specified periods.
 
We evaluate the effect
of a change in interest rates of +/-100 basis points to +/-400 basis points on both NII and Net Portfolio Value (“NPV”)
/ Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”). We concentrate on NII rather than net income as long as NII remains the significant
contributor to net income.
 
NII modeling allows
management to view how changes in interest rates will affect the spread between the yield paid on assets and the cost of deposits
and borrowed funds. Unlike traditional Gap modeling, NII modeling takes into account the different degree to which installments
in the same repricing period will adjust to a change in interest rates. It also allows the use of different assumptions in a falling
versus a rising rate environment. The period considered by the NII modeling is the next eight quarters.
 
NPV / EVE modeling
focuses on the change in the market value of equity. NPV / EVE is defined as the market value of assets less the market value of
liabilities plus/minus the market value of any off-balance sheet positions. By effectively looking at the present value of all
future cash flows on or off the balance sheet, NPV / EVE modeling takes a longer-term view of interest rate risk. This complements
the shorter-term view of the NII modeling.
 

[49]
 


 
Measures of NII at
risk produced by simulation analysis are indicators of an institution’s short-term performance in alternative rate environments.
These measures are typically based upon a relatively brief period, usually one year. They do not necessarily indicate the long-term
prospects or economic value of the institution.
 
Based on the simulation
analysis performed at December 31, 2011 and 2010, management estimated the following changes in net interest income, assuming the
indicated rate changes:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

+400 basis point increase 
$2,548  
$3,979 

+300 basis point increase 
$2,300  
$3,268 

+200 basis point increase 
$1,937  
$2,284 

+100 basis point increase 
$1,182  
$1,160 

-100 basis point increase 
$(984) 
$(662)

 
This estimate is based
on assumptions that may be affected by unforeseeable changes in the general interest rate environment and any number of unforeseeable
factors. Rates on different assets and liabilities within a single maturity category adjust to changes in interest rates to varying
degrees and over varying periods of time. The relationships between lending rates and rates paid on purchased funds are not constant
over time. Management can respond to current or anticipated market conditions by lengthening or shortening the Bank’s sensitivity
through loan repricings or changing its funding mix. The rate of growth in interest-free sources of funds will influence the level
of interest-sensitive funding sources. In addition, the absolute level of interest rates will affect the volume of earning assets
and funding sources. As a result of these limitations, the interest-sensitive gap is only one factor to be considered in estimating
the net interest margin.
 
Impact of Inflation
– Our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, and as such, future changes in prices do not affect the
obligations to pay or receive fixed and determinable amounts of money. During inflationary periods, monetary assets lose value
in terms of purchasing power and monetary liabilities have corresponding purchasing power gains. The concept of purchasing power
is not an adequate indicator of the impact of inflation on financial institutions because it does not incorporate changes in interest
rates, which are an important determination of First United Corporation’s earnings.
 

ITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
RISK

 
The
information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to Item 7 of Part II
of this annual report under the heading “Interest Rate Sensitivity”.
 

ITEM 8.FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

 


 
Page

 
 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
51

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
52

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
53

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
54

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
55

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
56

 

[50]
 


 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
First United Corporation
Oakland, Maryland
 
We have audited the
accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of First United Corporation and subsidiaries (“Corporation”)
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in shareholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of First United Corporation’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of First United
Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the years then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 


 
/s/ ParenteBeard LLC

 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
March 14, 2012
 

[51]
 


 
First
United Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Financial
Condition
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 


  
December 31 

  
2011  
2010 

Assets 
    
   

Cash and due from banks 
$52,049  
$184,830 

Interest bearing deposits in banks 
 13,058  
 114,483 

Cash and cash equivalents 
 65,107  
 299,313 

Investment securities – available-for-sale (at fair value) 
 245,023  
 229,687 

Restricted investment in bank stock, at cost 
 10,726  
 12,449 

Loans 
 938,694  
 1,009,753 

Allowance for loan losses 
 (19,480) 
 (22,138)

Net loans 
 919,214  
 987,615 

Premises and equipment, net 
 30,826  
 32,945 

Goodwill and other intangible assets, net 
 14,432  
 14,700 

Bank owned life insurance 
 31,435  
 30,405 

Deferred tax assets 
 28,711  
 26,400 

Other real estate owned 
 16,676  
 18,072 

Accrued interest receivable and other assets 
 28,715  
 44,859 

Total Assets 
$1,390,865  
$1,696,445 

  
    
   

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 
    
   

Liabilities: 
    
   

Non-interest bearing deposits 
$149,888  
$121,142 

Interest bearing deposits 
 877,896  
 1,180,504 

Total deposits 
 1,027,784  
 1,301,646 

  
    
   

Short-term borrowings 
 36,868  
 39,139 

Long-term borrowings 
 207,044  
 243,100 

Accrued interest payable and other liabilities 
 22,513  
 16,920 

Total Liabilities 
 1,294,209  
 1,600,805 

  
    
   

Shareholders’ Equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock – no par value; 
    
   

Authorized 2,000 shares of which 30 shares of Series A, $1,000 per share liquidation preference, 5% cumulative increasing to 9% cumulative on February 15, 2014, were issued and outstanding on December 31, 2011 and 2010 (discount of $140 and $202, respectively) 
 29,860  
 29,798 

Common Stock – par value $.01 per share; 
    
   

Authorized 25,000 shares; issued and outstanding 6,183 in 2011 and 6,166 in 2010 
 62  
 62 

Surplus 
 21,500  
 21,422 

Retained earnings 
 66,196  
 64,179 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (20,962) 
 (19,821)

Total Shareholders’ Equity 
 96,656  
 95,640 

Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity 
$1,390,865  
$1,696,445 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

[52]
 


 
First United Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(In thousands, except share and per share
amounts)
 


  
Year ended 

  
December 31 

  
2011  
2010 

Interest income 
    
   

Interest and fees on loans 
$52,289  
$61,062 

Interest on investment securities 
    
   

Taxable 
 4,081  
 5,524 

Exempt from federal income tax 
 2,749  
 3,588 

Total investment income 
 6,830  
 9,112 

Other 
 377  
 573 

Total interest income 
 59,496  
 70,747 

Interest expense 
    
   

Interest on deposits 
 11,899  
 18,083 

Interest on short-term borrowings 
 236  
 283 

Interest on long-term borrowings 
 9,071  
 10,798 

Total interest expense 
 21,206  
 29,164 

Net interest income 
 38,290  
 41,583 

Provision for loan losses 
 9,157  
 15,726 

Net interest income after provision for loan losses 
 29,133  
 25,857 

Other operating income 
    
   

Changes in fair value on impaired securities 
 406  
 (10,814)

Portion of loss recognized in other comprehensive income (before taxes) 
 (425) 
 2,450 

Net securities impairment losses recognized in operations 
 (19) 
 (8,364)

Net gains/(losses) – other 
 620  
 (6,014)

Total net gains/(losses) 
 601  
 (14,378)

Service charges 
 3,671  
 4,406 

Trust department 
 4,413  
 4,096 

Insurance commissions 
 2,424  
 2,712 

Debit card income 
 2,125  
 1,580 

Bank owned life insurance 
 1,030  
 1,019 

Brokerage commissions 
 767  
 694 

Other 
 685  
 849 

Total other income 
 15,115  
 15,356 

Total other operating income 
 15,716  
 978 

Other operating expenses 
    
   

Salaries and employee benefits 
 20,225  
 21,307 

FDIC premiums 
 2,362  
 4,017 

Equipment 
 3,015  
 3,197 

Occupancy 
 2,804  
 2,977 

Data processing 
 2,744  
 2,637 

Professional services 
 1,575  
 1,388 

Other real estate expenses 
 858  
 589 

Miscellaneous loan fees 
 849  
 528 

Other 
 7,426  
 8,409 

Total other operating expenses 
 41,858  
 45,049 

Income/(Loss) before income taxes 
 2,991  
 (18,214)

Income tax benefit 
 (635) 
 (8,017)

Net Income/(Loss) 
$3,626  
$(10,197)

Accumulated preferred stock dividends and discount accretion 
 (1,609) 
 (1,559)

Net Income Available to/(Loss) Attributable to Common Shareholders 
$2,017  
$(11,756)

Basic net income/(loss) per common share 
$.33  
$(1.91)

Diluted net income/(loss) per common share 
$.33  
$(1.91)

Dividends declared per common share 
$.00  
$.03 

Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 
 6,177,184  
 6,155,645 

Weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding 
 6,177,184  
 6,155,645 

 
See notes
to consolidated financial statements.
 

[53]
 


 
First United Corporation and Subsidiaries

Consolidated Statements of Changes in
Shareholders’ Equity
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Accumulated  
  

  
   
   
   
   
Other  
Total 

  
Preferred  
Common  
   
Retained  
Comprehensive  
Shareholders’ 

  
Stock  
Stock  
Surplus  
Earnings  
Loss   
Equity 

Balance at January 1, 2010 
$29,739  
$61  
$21,305  
$76,120  
$(26,659) 
$100,566 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net loss for the year 
    
    
    
 (10,197) 
    
 (10,197)

Unrealized gain on securities
    available-for-sale, net of reclassifications and income taxes of $4,052 
    
    
    
    
 5,987  
 5,987 

Change in accumulated
    unrealized losses for pension and SERP obligations, net of income taxes of $887 
    
    
    
    
 1,311  
 1,311 

Unrealized loss on derivatives, net of income
    taxes of $312 
    
    
    
    
 (460) 
 (460)

Comprehensive loss 
    
    
    
    
    
 (3,359)

Issuance of 9,924 shares
    of common stock under dividend reinvestment plan 
    
 1  
 47  
    
    
 48 

Stock based compensation 
    
    
 70  
    
    
 70 

Preferred stock discount accretion 
 59  
    
    
 (59) 
    
 0 

Preferred stock dividends paid 
    
    
    
 (1,125) 
    
 (1,125)

Preferred stock dividends deferred 
    
    
    
 (375) 
    
 (375)

Common stock dividends declared - $.03 per
    share 
    
    
    
 (185) 
    
 (185)

Balance at December 31, 2010 
 29,798  
 62  
 21,422  
 64,179  
 (19,821) 
 95,640 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income for the year 
    
    
    
 3,626  
    
 3,626 

Unrealized gain on securities
    available-for-sale, net of reclassifications and income taxes of $1,067 
    
    
    
    
 1,576  
 1,576 

Change in accumulated
    unrealized losses for pension and SERP obligations, net of income taxes of $1,757 
    
    
    
    
 (2,597) 
 (2,597)

Unrealized loss on derivatives, net of income
    taxes of $82 
    
    
    
    
 (120) 
 (120)

Comprehensive income 
    
    
    
    
    
 2,485 

Stock based compensation 
    
    
 78  
    
    
 78 

Preferred stock discount accretion 
 62  
    
    
 (62) 
    
 0 

Preferred stock dividends deferred 
    
    
    
 (1,547) 
    
 (1,547)

Balance at December 31, 2011 
$29,860  
$62  
$21,500  
$66,196  
$(20,962) 
$96,656 

 
See notes to consolidated
financial statements.
 

[54]
 


 
First United Corporation and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(In thousands)
 


  
Year ended December 31 

  
2011  
2010 

Operating activities 
    
   

Net Income/(Loss) 
$3,626  
$(10,197)

Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities: 
    
   

Provision for loan losses 
 9,157  
 15,726 

Depreciation 
 2,349  
 2,517 

Stock compensation 
 78  
 70 

Amortization of intangible assets 
 268  
 730 

(Gain)/Loss on sales of other real estate owned 
 (285) 
 475 

Write-downs of other real estate owned 
 1,986  
 2,940 

Proceeds from sale of loans held-for-sale 
 33,902  
 0 

Gain on loans held for sale 
 (1,366) 
 0 

(Gain)/Loss on loan sales 
 (86) 
 78 

Deferred loan fees 
 (593) 
 (588)

Loss on disposal of fixed assets 
 6  
 108 

Net amortization of investment securities discounts and premiums 
 1,785  
 1,226 

Other-than-temporary-impairment loss on securities 
 19  
 8,364 

Proceeds from sales of investment securities trading 
 0  
 99,626 

Proceeds from maturities/calls of investment securities trading 
 0  
 17,167 

Loss on trading securities 
 0  
 251 

(Gain)/Loss on sales of investment securities – available-for-sale 
 (875) 
 2,162 

Decrease in accrued interest receivable and other assets 
 11,587  
 7,939 

Deferred tax benefit 
 (1,538) 
 (1,839)

Increase/(Decrease) in accrued interest payable and other liabilities 
 4,046  
 (3,797)

Earnings on bank owned life insurance 
 (1,030) 
 (1,019)

Net cash provided by operating activities 
 63,036  
 141,939 

  
    
   

Investing activities 
    
   

Proceeds from maturities/calls of investment securities available- for-sale 
 80,315  
 114,445 

Proceeds from sales of investment securities available-for-sale 
 84,396  
 12,304 

Purchases of investment securities available-for-sale 
 (178,333) 
 (201,409)

Proceeds from sales of other real estate owned 
 6,017  
 3,146 

Proceeds from loan sales 
 10,606  
 1,764 

Proceeds from disposal of fixed assets 
 0  
 11 

Net decrease in loans 
 10,459  
 80,157 

Net decrease in bank stock 
 1,723  
 1,412 

Purchases of premises and equipment 
 (236) 
 (3,862)

Net cash provided by investing activities 
 14,947  
 7,968 

  
    
   

Financing activities 
    
   

Net decrease in deposits 
 (273,862) 
 (2,520)

Net decrease in short-term borrowings 
 (2,271) 
 (8,424)

Proceeds from long-term borrowings 
 0  
 3,609 

Payments on long-term borrowings 
 (36,056) 
 (31,053)

Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock and warrants 
 0  
 0 

Cash dividends paid on common stock 
 0  
 (800)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
 0  
 48 

Preferred stock dividends paid 
 0  
 (1,125)

Net cash used in financing activities 
 (312,189) 
 (40,265)

(Decrease)/Increase in cash and cash equivalents 
 (234,206) 
 109,642 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 
 299,313  
 189,671 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 
$65,107  
$299,313 

  
    
   

Supplemental information 
    
   

Interest paid 
$19,985  
$29,754 

Taxes paid 
 0  
 300 

Non-cash investing activities: 
    
   

Transfers from loans to other real estate owned 
 6,322  
 17,042 

Transfers from loans to loans held-for-sale 
 32,536  
 0 

Transfers from available-for-sale to trading 
 0  
 117,078 

 
See notes to consolidated
financial statements
 


[55]
 

 
First United Corporation and Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

1.Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

 
Business
 
First United Corporation
is a registered financial holding company that was incorporated under the laws of the state of Maryland. It is the parent company
of First United Bank & Trust, a Maryland trust company (“Bank”), First United Statutory Trust I (“Trust I”)
and First United Statutory Trust II (“Trust II”), both Connecticut statutory business trusts, and First United Statutory
Trust III (“Trust III” and together with Trust I and Trust II, the “Trusts”), a Delaware statutory business
trust. The Trusts were formed for the purpose of selling trust preferred securities. First United Corporation is also the parent
company of First United Insurance Group, LLC, a Maryland limited liability company (the “Insurance Group”) that, through
the close of business on December 31, 2011, operated as a full service insurance agency. Effective on January 1, 2012, the Insurance
Group sold substantially all of its assets and is no longer an active subsidiary.
 
The Bank has three
wholly-owned subsidiaries: OakFirst Loan Center, Inc., a West Virginia finance company; OakFirst Loan Center, LLC, a Maryland finance
company (collectively, the “OakFirst Loan Centers”), and First OREO Trust, a Maryland statutory trust formed for the
purposes of servicing and disposing of the real estate that the Bank acquires through foreclosure or by deed in lieu of foreclosure.
The Bank owns a majority interest in Cumberland Liquidation Trust, a Maryland statutory trust formed for the purposes of servicing
and disposing of real estate that secured a loan made by another bank and in which the Bank held a participation interest. The
Bank also owns 99.9% of the limited partnership interests in Liberty Mews Limited Partnership, a Maryland limited partnership formed
for the purpose of acquiring, developing and operating low-income housing units in Garrett County, Maryland (the “Partnership”).
The Bank provides a complete range of retail and commercial banking services to a customer base serviced by a network of 28 offices
and 31 automated teller machines. This customer base includes individuals, businesses and various governmental units.
 
First United Corporation
and its subsidiaries operate principally in four counties in Western Maryland counties and four counties in West Virginia.
 
As used in these Notes,
unless the context requires otherwise, the terms “the Corporation”, “we”, “us”, “our”
and words of similar import refer collectively to First United Corporation and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The
accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Corporation have been prepared in accordance
with United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) as required by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) that require
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of certain assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements as well as the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
differ from these estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in the near term relate
to the determination of the allowance for loan losses, the assessment of other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) pertaining
to investment securities, potential impairment of goodwill, and the valuation of deferred tax assets. For purposes of comparability,
certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. Such reclassifications had no impact on
net income/(loss) or equity.
 
The Corporation has
evaluated events and transactions occurring subsequent to the statement of financial condition date of December 31, 2011 for items
that should potentially be recognized or disclosed in these financial statements as prescribed by ASC Topic 855, Subsequent
Events.
 
Effective on January
1, 2012, the Insurance Group sold substantially all of its assets, net of cash, to an unrelated third party (the “Acquirer”)
for $3.6 million. Prior to that date, the Insurance Group operated as a full service insurance agency with offices in Maryland
and West Virginia. As part of this sale, we agreed that we would not compete with the Acquirer for insurance business other than
with respect to insurance related to our banking, trust, lending, consumer finance company, and/or securities sales businesses.
We also agreed to not solicit the Acquirer’s customers or any person who was a customer of the Insurance Group at any time
within three years prior to the sale. These restrictions will terminate on January 1, 2017. As a result of these agreements, we
anticipate that our insurance activities for the foreseeable future will be limited to the sale of credit-related insurance products
and the sale, through our networking arrangements, of annuities. Also as part of the sale, we agreed, until January 1, 2013, to
refer insurance business to the Acquirer. To the extent permitted by law, we will be entitled to a referral fee, equal to 10% of
the commission payable to the Acquirer, when our referrals result in the sale of an insurance policy of a type not previously sold
to the customer by the Acquirer. Total revenues for 2011 were $2.4 million and pre-tax operating expenses, net of amortization
expense and expenses related
 


[56]
 

 
to
the sale were $2.2 million. Management does not expect the sale of the Insurance Group’s assets or the referral arrangement
to have a material impact on our future financial condition or results of operations.
  
Principles of Consolidation
 
The
consolidated financial statements of the Corporation include the accounts of the Bank, the Insurance
Group, OakFirst Loan Center, Inc., OakFirst Loan Center, LLC, First OREO Trust and Cumberland Liquidation Trust. All significant
inter-company accounts and transactions have been eliminated.
 
First United Corporation
determines whether it has a controlling financial interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest
entity or a variable interest entity (“VIE”) in accordance with GAAP. Voting interest entities are entities in which
the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance itself independently and provides the equity
holders with the obligation to absorb losses, the right to receive residual returns and the right to make financial and operating
decisions. The Corporation consolidates voting interest entities in which it has 100%, or at least a majority, of the voting interest.
As defined in applicable accounting standards, a VIE is an entity that either (i) does not have equity investors with voting rights
or (ii) has equity investors that do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. A controlling
financial interest in an entity exists when an enterprise has a variable interest, or a combination of variable interests that
will absorb a majority of an entity’s expected losses, receive a majority of an entity’s expected residual returns,
or both. The enterprise with a controlling financial interest, known as the primary beneficiary, consolidates the VIE.
 
The Corporation accounts
for its investment in a Low Income Housing Tax Credit Partnership, such as Liberty Mews Limited Partnership, utilizing the effective
yield method under guidance that applies specifically to investments in limited partnerships that operate qualified affordable
housing projects. Under the effective yield method, the investor recognizes tax credits as they are allocated and amortizes
the initial cost of the investment to provide a constant effective yield over the period that tax credits are allocated to the
investor. The effective yield is the internal rate of return on the investment, based on the cost of the investment and the guaranteed
tax credits allocated to the investor. The tax credit allocated, net of the amortization of the investment in the limited partnership,
is recognized in the income statement as a component of income taxes attributable to continuing operations.
 
Significant Concentrations
of Credit Risk
 
Most
of the Corporation’s relationships are with customers located in Western Maryland and Northeastern West Virginia. At
December 31, 2011, approximately 15%, or $143 million, of total loans were secured by real estate acquisition, construction and
development projects, with $117 million performing according to their contractual terms and $26 million considered to be impaired
based on management’s concerns about the borrowers’ ability to comply with present repayment terms. Of the $26 million
impaired loans, $5 million were TDRs performing according to their modified terms, $6 million were performing impaired, and $15
million were non-performing at December 31, 2011. No single industry or borrower comprises greater than 10% of total loans as of
December 31, 2011, and the Corporation does not have any significant concentrations in any one industry
or customer. Note 6 discusses the types of securities in which the Corporation invests and Note
7 discusses the Corporation’s lending activities.
 
Investments
 
The
investment portfolio is classified and accounted for based on the guidance of ASC Topic 320, Investments – Debt and Equity
Securities. Securities bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term are classified as
trading account securities and reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in net gains/losses in other operating
income. Securities purchased with the intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity
securities and are recorded at amortized cost. All other investment securities are classified as available-for-sale. These securities
are held for an indefinite period of time and may be sold in response to changing market and interest
rate conditions or for liquidity purposes as part of our overall asset/liability management strategy. Available-for-sale securities
are reported at market value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of other
comprehensive income included in shareholders’ equity, net of applicable income taxes. 
 
Securities available-for-sale:
The fair value of investments available-for-sale is determined using a market approach. As of December 31, 2011, the U.S. Government
agencies and treasuries, residential mortgage-backed securities, private label residential mortgage-backed securities, and municipal
bonds segments are classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. Their fair values were determined based upon market-corroborated
inputs and valuation matrices, which were obtained through third party data service providers or securities brokers through which
the Corporation has historically transacted both purchases and sales of investment securities.
  
The
amortized cost of debt securities classified as available-for-sale is adjusted for the amortization of premiums to the first call
date, if applicable, or to maturity, and for the accretion of discounts to maturity, or, in the
case of mortgage-backed securities, over
 


[57]
 

 
the
estimated life of the security. Such amortization and accretion is included in interest income from investments. Interest and
dividends are included in interest income from investments. Gains and losses on the sale of securities are recorded using the
specific identification method.
 
Management systematically
evaluates securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. Based upon application of accounting guidance for subsequent measurement
in ASC Topic 320 (ASC Section 320-10-35), management assesses whether (i) it has the intent to
sell a security being evaluated and (ii) it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the security
prior to its anticipated recovery. If neither applies, then declines in the fair values of securities below their cost that
are considered other-than-temporary declines are split into two components. The first is the loss attributable to declining credit
quality. Credit losses are recognized in earnings as realized losses in the period in which the impairment determination is made.
The second component consists of all other losses, which are recognized in other comprehensive loss. In estimating other-than-temporary
impairment losses, management considers (a) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost,
(b) adverse conditions specifically related to the security, an industry, or a geographic area, (c) the historic and implied volatility
of the fair value of the security, (d) changes in the rating of the security by a rating agency, (e) recoveries or additional declines
in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date, (f) failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled interest or principal
payments, and (g) the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that
increase in the future. Management also monitors cash flow projections for securities that are
considered beneficial interests under the guidance of ASC Subtopic 325-40, Investments – Other – Beneficial Interests
in Securitized Financial Assets, (ASC Section 325-40-35). Further discussion about the evaluation of securities for impairment
can be found in Note 6.
 
The collateralized
debt obligation (“CDO”) segment, which consists of pooled trust preferred securities issued by banks, thrifts and insurance
companies, is classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. At December 31, 2011, the Corporation owned 18 pooled trust
preferred securities with an amortized cost of $36.4 million and a fair value of $9.4 million. The market for these securities
at December 31, 2011 is not active and markets for similar securities are also not active. The inactivity was evidenced first by
a significant widening of the bid-ask spread in the brokered markets in which these securities trade and then by a significant
decrease in the volume of trades relative to historical levels. The new issue market is also inactive, as few CDOs have been issued
since 2007. There are currently very few market participants who are willing to transact for these securities. The market values
for these securities or any securities, other than those issued or guaranteed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “Treasury”),
are very depressed relative to historical levels. Therefore, in the current market, a low market price for a particular bond may
only provide evidence of stress in the credit markets in general rather than being an indicator of credit problems with a particular
issue. Given the conditions in the current debt markets and the absence of observable transactions in the secondary and new issue
markets, management has determined that (i) the few observable transactions and market quotations that are available are not reliable
for the purpose of obtaining fair value at December 31, 2011, (ii) an income valuation approach technique (i.e. present value)
that maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs will be equally or more representative
of fair value than a market approach, and (iii) the CDO segment is appropriately classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy
because management determined that significant adjustments were required to determine fair value at the measurement date.
 
Management utilizes
an independent third party to prepare both the evaluations of other-than-temporary impairment as well as the fair value determinations
for its CDO portfolio. Management does not believe that there were any material differences in the impairment evaluations and pricing
between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 
The
approach of the third party to determine fair value involves several steps, including detailed credit and structural evaluation
of each piece of collateral in each bond, default, recovery and prepayment/amortization probabilities for each piece of collateral
in the bond, and discounted cash flow modeling. The discount rate methodology used by the third party combines a baseline current
market yield for comparable corporate and structured credit products with adjustments based on evaluations of the differences found
in structure and risks associated with actual and projected credit performance of each CDO being valued. Currently, there
is an active and liquid trading market only for stand-alone trust preferred securities. Therefore, adjustments
to the baseline discount rate are also made to reflect the additional leverage found in structured instruments.
 
Fair Value
 
The
Corporation determines fair value of its investment securities and certain other assets in accordance with the requirements of
ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes
a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements required under other accounting pronouncements.
The Corporation measures the fair market values of its investments based on the fair value hierarchy established in Topic 820.
Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements include the Corporation’s fair value disclosures.
 

[58]
 


 
Restricted Investment
in Bank Stock
 
Restricted stock, which
represents required investments in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Atlanta, Atlantic Central
Bankers Bank (“ACBB”) and Community Bankers Bank (“CBB”), is carried at cost
and is considered a long-term investment.
 
Management evaluates
the restricted stock for impairment in accordance with ASC Industry Topic 942, Financial Services – Depository and Lending,
(ASC Section 942-325-35). Management’s evaluation of potential impairment
is based on management’s assessment of the ultimate recoverability of the cost of the restricted stock rather than
by recognizing temporary declines in value. The determination of whether
a decline affects the ultimate recoverability is influenced by criteria such as (i) the significance of the decline in net assets
of the issuing bank as compared to the capital stock amount for that bank and the length of time this situation has persisted,
(ii) commitments by the issuing bank to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation
to the operating performance of that bank, and (iii) the impact of legislative and regulatory changes on institutions and, accordingly,
on the customer base of the issuing bank. Management has evaluated the restricted stock for impairment and believes that
no impairment charge is necessary as of December 31, 2011.
 
The Corporation recognizes
dividends on a cash basis. For the year ended December 31, 2011, dividends of $96,500 were recognized in earnings. For the comparable
period of 2010, dividends of $46,500 were recognized in earnings.
 
Loans
 
Loans
that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or full repayment by the
borrower are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any deferred fees
or costs pertaining to origination. Loans that management has the intent to sell are reported at the lower of cost or fair value
determined on an individual basis.
 
The segments of the
Bank’s loan portfolio are disaggregated to a level that allows management to monitor risk and performance. The commercial
real estate (“CRE”) loan segment is further disaggregated into two classes. Non-owner occupied CRE loans, which include
loans secured by non-owner occupied nonfarm nonresidential properties, generally have a greater risk profile than all other CRE
loans, which include loans secured by farmland, multifamily structures and owner-occupied commercial structures. The acquisition
and development (“A&D”) loan segment is further disaggregated into two classes. One to four family residential
construction loans are generally made to individuals for the acquisition of and/or construction on a lot or lots on which a residential
dwelling is to be built. All other A&D loans are generally made to developers or investors for the purpose of acquiring, developing
and constructing residential or commercial structures. These loans have a higher risk profile because the ultimate buyer, once
development is completed, is generally not known at the time of the A&D loan. The commercial
and industrial (“C&I”) loan segment consists of loans made for the purpose of financing the activities of commercial
customers. The residential mortgage loan segment is further disaggregated into two classes: amortizing term loans, which are primarily
first liens, and home equity lines of credit, which are generally second liens. The consumer loan segment consists primarily of
installment loans (direct and indirect) and overdraft lines of credit connected with customer deposit accounts.
 
Interest and Fees on Loans
 
Interest on loans (other
than those on non-accrual status) is recognized based upon the principal amount outstanding. Loan fees in excess of the costs incurred
to originate the loan are recognized as income over the life of the loan utilizing either the interest method or the straight-line
method, depending on the type of loan. Generally, fees on loans with a specified maturity date, such as residential mortgages,
are recognized using the interest method. Loan fees for lines of credit are recognized using the straight-line method.
 
A loan is considered
to be past due when a payment has not been received for 30 days past its contractual due date. For all loan segments, the accrual
of interest is discontinued when principal or interest is delinquent for 90 days or more unless the loan is well-secured and in
the process of collection. All non-accrual loans are considered to be impaired. Interest payments received on non-accrual loans
are applied as a reduction of the loan principal balance. Loans are returned to accrual status when all principal and interest
amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. The Corporation’s policy for recognizing
interest income on impaired loans does not differ from its overall policy for interest recognition.
 
Generally, consumer
installment loans are not placed on non-accrual status, but are charged off after they are 120 days contractually past due. Loans
other than consumer loans are charged-off based on an evaluation of the facts and circumstances of each individual loan.
 

[59]
 


 
Allowance for Loan Losses
 
An Allowance for Loan
Losses (“ALL”) is maintained to absorb losses from the loan portfolio. The ALL is based on management’s continuing
evaluation of the risk characteristics and credit quality of the loan portfolio, assessment of current economic conditions, diversification
and size of the portfolio, adequacy of collateral, past and anticipated loss experience, and the amount of non-performing loans.
 
The Bank’s methodology
for determining the ALL is based on the requirements of ASC Section 310-10-35, Receivables-Overall-Subsequent Measurement,
for loans individually evaluated for impairment and ASC Subtopic 450-20, Contingencies-Loss Contingencies, for loans
collectively evaluated for impairment, as well as the Interagency Policy Statements on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
and other bank regulatory guidance. The total of the two components represents the Bank’s ALL.
 
The Corporation maintains
an allowance for losses on unfunded commercial lending commitments and letters of credit to provide for the risk of loss inherent
in these arrangements. The allowance is determined utilizing a methodology that is similar to that used to determine the allowance
for loan losses, modified to take into account the probability of a draw down on the commitment. This allowance is reported as
a liability on the balance sheet within accrued interest payable and other liabilities. The balance in the liability account was
$44,000 and $48,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Premises and Equipment
 
Land
is carried at cost. Premises and equipment are carried at cost, less accumulated depreciation. The provision for depreciation for
financial reporting has been made by using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful
lives of the assets, which range from 18 to 32 years for buildings and three to 20 years for furniture and equipment. Accelerated
depreciation methods are used for income tax purposes.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill
represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net assets acquired in business combinations. In
accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other,
goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an annual impairment test.
 
Other
intangible assets with finite lives include core deposit intangible assets, which represent the
present value of future net income to be earned from acquired deposits. Core deposit intangibles were amortized using the straight-line
method over their estimated life of 7.2 years. The core deposit intangible was fully amortized in September 2010. Insurance agency
book of business intangibles were amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated lives. Effective January 1, 2012,
the Corporation will no longer carry the intangibles due to the sale of the Insurance Agency and the related books of business.
 
Bank-Owned Life Insurance (“BOLI”)
 
BOLI
policies are recorded at their cash surrender values. Changes in the cash surrender values are
recorded as other operating income.
 
Other Real Estate Owned
 
Assets acquired through,
or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially recorded at fair value less the cost to sell at the date of
foreclosure, with any losses charged to the ALL, establishing a new cost basis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically
performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Changes in
the valuation allowance are included in losses on other real estate owned. Revenue and expenses from operations are included in
net expenses from other real estate owned.
 
Income Taxes
 
First
United Corporation and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. Income taxes are accounted for using the
liability method. Under the liability method, the deferred tax liability or asset is determined based on the difference between
the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities (temporary differences) and is
measured at the enacted tax rates that will be in effect when these differences reverse. Deferred tax expense is determined by
the change in the net liability or asset for deferred taxes adjusted for changes in any deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
 

[60]
 


 
ASC Topic 740, Taxes,
provides clarification on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise’s financial statements and
prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position
taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We have not identified any income tax uncertainties.
 
State corporate income
tax returns are filed annually. Federal and state returns may be selected for examination by the Internal Revenue Service and the
states where we file, subject to statutes of limitations. At any given point in time, the Corporation may have several years of
filed tax returns that may be selected for examination or review by taxing authorities. With few exceptions, we are no longer subject
to U.S. Federal, State, and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2008.
 
Interest and penalties
on income taxes are recognized as a component of income tax expense.
 
Defined Benefit Plans
 
The
defined benefit pension plan and supplemental executive retirement plan are accounted for in accordance with ASC Topic 715,
Compensation – Retirement Benefits. Under the provisions of Topic 715, the funded status of the defined benefit pension
plan is recognized as an asset, and the supplemental executive retirement plan is recognized
as a liability in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, and unrecognized net actuarial losses, prior service costs
and a net transition asset are recognized as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax. Refer to
Note 17 for a further discussion of the pension plan and supplemental executive retirement plan obligations.
 
Statement of Cash Flows
 
Cash and cash equivalents
are defined as cash and due from banks and interest bearing deposits in banks in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
 
Trust Assets and Income
 
Assets
held in an agency or fiduciary capacity are not the Bank’s assets and, accordingly, are not included in the Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition. Income from the Bank’s trust department represents fees charged to
customers and is recorded on an accrual basis.
 
Business Segments
 
The
Corporation operates in one segment, commercial banking, as defined by ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The Corporation
in its entirety is managed and evaluated on an ongoing basis by the Board of Directors and executive management, with no division
or subsidiary receiving separate analysis regarding performance or resource allocation.
 
Equity Compensation
Plan 
 
At the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, First United Corporation’s shareholders approved the First United Corporation Omnibus Equity Compensation
Plan (the “Omnibus Plan”), which authorizes the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, stock
units, performance units, dividend equivalents, and other stock-based awards to employees or directors totaling up to 185,000 shares.
 
On June 18, 2008, the
Board of Directors of First United Corporation adopted a Long-Term Incentive Program (the “LTIP”). This program was
adopted as a sub-plan of the Omnibus Plan to reward participants for increasing shareholder value, align executive interests with
those of shareholders, and serve as a retention tool for key executives. Under the LTIP, participants are granted shares of restricted
common stock of First United Corporation. The amount of an award is based on a specified percentage of the participant’s
salary as of the date of grant. These shares will vest if the Corporation meets or exceeds certain performance thresholds. There
were no grants of restricted stock outstanding at December 31, 2011.
 
The Corporation complies
with the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation, in measuring and disclosing stock compensation cost.
The measurement objective in ASC Paragraph 718-10-30-6 requires public companies to measure the cost of employee services received
in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant date fair value of the award. The cost is recognized in expense
over the period in which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (the vesting period). The performance-related
shares granted in connection with the LTIP are expensed ratably from the date that the likelihood of meeting the performance measures
is probable through the end of a three year vesting period.
  
The American Recovery
and Reinvestment Act (the “Recovery Act”) imposes restrictions on the type and timing of bonuses and incentive compensation
that may be accrued for or paid to certain employees of institutions that participated in the Treasury’s
 


[61]
 

 
Troubled
Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”). The Recovery Act generally limits bonuses
and incentive compensation to grants of long-term restricted stock that, among other requirements, cannot fully vest until the
TARP CPP assistance is repaid.
 
Stock-based awards
were made to non-employee directors in May 2011. Five thousand dollars of their annual retainer is paid in stock. Beginning in
2011, the non-employee directors were given the option to elect to take up to 100% of their annual cash retainer also in stock.
The 2011 grants totaled 16,720 fully-vested shares having a fair market value of $5.68 per share. Director stock compensation expense
was $78,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $70,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Stock Repurchases
 
Under the Maryland
General Corporation Law, shares of capital stock that are repurchased are cancelled and treated as authorized but unissued shares.
When a share of capital stock is repurchased, the payment of the repurchase price reduces stated capital by the par value of that
share (currently, $0.01 for common stock and $0.00 for preferred stock), and any excess over par value reduces capital surplus.
 
Adoption of New Accounting Standards and Effects of New Accounting
Pronouncements 
 
In December 2011, the
FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic
220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items out of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income in ASU No. 2011-05 (“ASU 2011-12”).  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU
No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income (“ASU 2011-05”). ASU 2011-05 amends ASC Topic 220, Comprehensive
Income, to provide the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components
of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive
statements. ASU 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement
of changes in stockholders’ equity. ASU 2011-05 does not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income
or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. The amended guidance in ASU 2011-05 is effective
for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, and should be applied retrospectively.
ASU 2011-12 defers the specific requirement to present items that are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income
to net income separately within their respective components of net income and other comprehensive income. The guidance in ASU 2011-12
is also effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Management anticipates
that the guidance contained in both ASUs will not have a significant impact on the Corporation’s future financial
statements, but it will impact the presentation of the Corporation’s future financial statements.
 
In September 2011,
the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, Testing Goodwill for Impairment (“ASU 2011-08”).
ASU 2011-08 amends ASC Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, to permit an entity to first assess qualitative
factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount
as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test described in Topic 350. The
amended guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted, including for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed as of a date before
September 15, 2011, if an entity’s financial statements for the most recent annual or interim period have not yet been issued.
Management is evaluating this guidance, but anticipates that it will not have a significant impact on the Corporation’s
future financial statements.
 
In June 2011, the FASB
issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements
in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (“ASU 2011-04”). ASU 2011-04 amends ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements, to bring
U.S. GAAP for fair value measurements in line with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). ASU 2011-04
clarifies existing guidance for items such as the application of the highest and best use concept to non-financial assets and liabilities,
and disclosure requirements regarding quantitative information about unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements of
Level 3 assets. ASU 2011-04 also allows for the application of premiums and discounts in a fair value measurement if the financial
instrument is categorized in Level 2 or 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Lastly, ASU 2011-04 contains new disclosure requirements
regarding fair value amounts categorized as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy such as: (i) disclosure of the valuation process
used; (ii) effects of and relationships between unobservable inputs; (iii) usage of nonfinancial assets for purposes other than
their highest and best use when that is the basis of the disclosed fair value; and (iv) categorization by level of items disclosed
at fair value, but not measured at fair value for financial statement purposes. For entities who file periodic and other reports
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the amended guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December
15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively. Early adoption is not permitted. Management anticipates that this guidance will not
have a significant impact on the Corporation’s future financial statements.
  
In April 2011, the
FASB issued ASU No. 2011-02, A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled
Debt Restructuring (“ASU 2011-02”). ASU 2011-02 provides additional guidance to assist creditors in determining
whether a
 


[62]
 

 
restructuring
of a receivable meets the criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring within the scope of ASC Subtopic 310-40, Receivables
– Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors, with an emphasis on evaluating all aspects of the modification rather than
a focus of specific criteria to determine a concession. ASU 2011-02 also provides guidance on specific types of modifications
such as changes in the interest rate of the borrowing, and insignificant delays in payments, as well as guidance on the creditor’s
evaluation of whether or not a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. For public entities, the amended guidance was effective
for the first interim or annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011, with retrospective application to the beginning of
the annual period of adoption. Entities were also required to disclose information required by ASU 2010-20, Disclosures about
the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses, which had previously been deferred by ASU
No. 2011-01, Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in ASU No. 2010-20, for interim
and annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011.  The adoption of this guidance did not have a significant impact
on the Corporation’s financial statements. The Corporation had no loans that were newly considered impaired under
ASC Section 310-10-35, Receivables-Overall-Subsequent Measurement for which impairment was previously measured under ASC
Subtopic 450-20, Contingencies-Loss Contingencies.
 

2.Earnings/(Loss) Per Common Share

  
Basic
earnings/(loss) per common share is derived by dividing net income available to/(loss) attributable to common shareholders
by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period and does not include the effect of any
potentially dilutive common stock equivalents. Diluted earnings/(loss) per share is derived by dividing net income available
to/(loss) attributable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares outstanding, adjusted for the dilutive
effect of outstanding common stock equivalents. There were no common stock equivalents at December 31, 2011. There is no
dilutive effect on the loss per share during loss periods.
 
The following
table sets forth the calculation of basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per common share for the years ended December 31, 2011 and
2010:
 


  
For the years ended 

  
December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
   
Average  
Per Share  
   
Average  
Per Share 

(In thousands, except for per share amount) 
Income  
Shares  
Amount  
Loss  
Shares  
Amount 

Basic and Diluted Earnings/(Loss) Per Share: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net income/(loss) 
$3,626  
    
    
$(10,197) 
    
   

Preferred stock dividends paid 
 0  
    
    
 (1,125) 
    
   

Preferred stock dividends deferred 
 (1,547) 
    
    
 (375) 
    
   

Discount accretion on preferred stock 
 (62) 
      
    
 (59) 
      
   

Net income available to/(loss
    attributable to) common shareholders 
$2,017  
    6,177  
$.33  
$(11,756) 
    6,156  
$(1.91)

 

[63]
 



 

3.Net Gains (Losses)

 
The following table
summarizes the gain/(loss) activity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
For the year ended 

  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Available-for-sale securities: 
    
   

Other-than-temporary impairment charges 
$(19) 
$(8,364)

Realized gains 
 1,083  
 262 

Realized losses 
 (208) 
 (170)

Transfers of available-for-sale securities to trading: 
    
   

Gains recognized in earnings 
 0  
 2,852 

Losses recognized in earnings 
 0  
 (5,106)

Net gain/(loss) recognized on available-for-sale securities 
 875  
 (2,162)

  
    
   

Trading securities: 
    
   

Gross gains on sales 
 0  
 972 

Gross losses on sales 
 0  
 (1,223)

Net loss recognized on sales 
 0  
 (251)

Gain/(loss) on consumer loan sales 
 86  
 (78)

Gain on sale of indirect auto loans 
 1,366  
 0 

Net gain/(loss) on sales of other real estate owned 
 285  
 (475)

Write-downs of other real estate owned 
 (1,986) 
 (2,940)

Net loss on disposal of fixed assets 
 (6) 
 (108)

Net gains/(losses) – other 
 620  
 (6,014)

Net gains/(losses) 
$601  
$(14,378)

 

4.Regulatory Capital Requirements

 
First United Corporation
and the Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet
minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if
undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory
framework for prompt corrective action, First United Corporation and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve
quantitative measures of its assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting
practices. The capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components,
risk weightings, and other factors.
 
Quantitative
measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require First United Corporation and the Bank to maintain certain
minimum amounts of capital and ratios of total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets, and
of Tier I capital to average assets (leverage). Management believes, as of December 31, 2011, that First United Corporation and
the Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.
 
As
of December 31, 2011, the most recent notification from regulatory agencies categorized First United Corporation and the Bank as
“well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. For
a financial institution to be categorized as well capitalized, total risk-based, Tier I risk-based, and Tier I leverage ratios
must not fall below the percentages shown in the following table. Management is not aware of any condition or event which has caused
the well capitalized position to change.
 

[64]
 


 


  
   
   
To Be Well Capitalized 

  
   
   
Under Prompt 

  
   
For Capital  
Corrective Action 

  
Actual  
Adequacy Purposes  
Provisions 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated 
$152,280  
 13.05% 
$93,342  
 8.00% 
$116,677  
 10.00%

First United Bank & Trust 
 155,651  
 13.38% 
 93,035  
 8.00% 
 116,294  
 10.00%

Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated 
 131,884  
 11.30% 
 46,671  
 4.00% 
 70,006  
 6.00%

First United Bank & Trust 
 140,818  
 12.11% 
 46,517  
 4.00% 
 69,776  
 6.00%

Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated 
 131,884  
 9.10% 
 57,953  
 4.00% 
 72,441  
 5.00%

First United Bank & Trust 
 140,818  
 9.75% 
 57,782  
 4.00% 
 72,228  
 5.00%

 


  
   
   
To Be Well Capitalized 

  
   
   
Under Prompt 

  
   
For Capital  
Corrective Action 

  
Actual  
Adequacy Purposes  
Provisions 

(Dollars in thousands) 
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio  
Amount  
Ratio 

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated 
$151,147  
 11.57% 
$104,534  
 8.00% 
$130,667  
 10.00%

First United Bank & Trust 
 150,349  
 11.53% 
 104,281  
 8.00% 
 130,351  
 10.00%

Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated 
 127,317  
 9.74% 
 52,267  
 4.00% 
 78,407  
 6.00%

First United Bank & Trust 
 133,802  
 10.26% 
 52,140  
 4.00% 
 78,210  
 6.00%

Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated 
 127,317  
 7.34% 
 69,349  
 4.00% 
 86,687  
 5.00%

First United Bank & Trust 
 133,802  
 7.73% 
 69,203  
 4.00% 
 86,504  
 5.00%

 

5.Cash and Cash Equivalents

 
Cash and due from banks,
which represents vault cash in the retail offices and invested cash balances at the Federal Reserve, is carried at fair value.
 


  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Cash and due from banks, weighted average interest rate of 0.14% (at December 31, 2011) 
$52,049  
$184,830 

 
Interest bearing deposits
in banks, which represent funds invested at a correspondent bank, are carried at fair value and, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
consisted of daily funds invested at the FHLB of Atlanta, First Tennessee Bank (“FTN”), M&T Bank (“M&T”),
and CBB.
  


  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

FHLB daily investments, interest rate of 0.01% (at December 31, 2011) 
$4,244  
$77,102 

FTN daily investments, interest rate of 0.04% (at December 31, 2011) 
 1,350  
 1,350 

M&T Fed Funds sold, interest rate of 0.25% (at December 31, 2011) 
 6,379  
 6,004 

CBB Fed Funds sold, interest rate of 0.21% (at December 31, 2011) 
 1,085  
 30,027 

  
$13,058  
$114,483 

 

[65]
 


 

6.Investment Securities – Available for Sale

 
The following table
shows a comparison of amortized cost and fair values of investment securities available-for-sale:
 


  
   
Gross  
Gross  
   
  

  
Amortized  
Unrealized  
Unrealized  
Fair  
OTTI in 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Gains  
Losses  
Value  
AOCI 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$25,490  
$107  
$17  
$25,580  
$0 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
 129,019  
 1,653  
 270  
 130,402  
 0 

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
 10,843  
 58  
 123  
 10,778  
 0 

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 65,424  
 3,400  
 8  
 68,816  
 0 

Collateralized debt obligations 
 36,385  
 0  
 26,938  
 9,447  
 17,726 

Totals 
$267,161  
$5,218  
$27,356  
$245,023  
$17,726 

  
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$24,813  
$101  
$64  
$24,850  
$0 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
 98,109  
 1,703  
 199  
 99,613  
 0 

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
 763  
 0  
 101  
 662  
 0 

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 94,250  
 1,011  
 537  
 94,724  
 0 

Collateralized debt obligations 
 36,533  
 0  
 26,695  
 9,838  
 18,151 

Totals 
$254,468  
$2,815  
$27,596  
$229,687  
$18,151 

 
Proceeds from sales
of securities and the realized gains and losses are as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Proceeds 
$84,396  
$12,304 

Realized gains 
 1,083  
 262 

Realized losses 
 208  
 170 

 
The following table
shows the Corporation’s securities available-for-sale with gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment
category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized position, at December 31, 2011 and
2010: 
 


  
Less than 12 months  
12 months or more 

  
Fair  
Unrealized  
Fair  
Unrealized 

(In thousands) 
Value  
Losses  
Value  
Losses 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$9,983  
$17  
$0  
$0 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
 47,200  
 269  
 4,779  
 1 

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
 0  
 0  
 557  
 123 

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 0  
 0  
 2,805  
 8 

Collateralized debt obligations 
 0  
 0  
 9,447  
 26,938 

Totals 
$57,183  
$286  
$17,588  
$27,070 

  
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$13,044  
$64  
$0  
$0 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
 19,453  
 199  
 0  
 0 

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
 0  
 0  
 662  
 101 

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 26,887  
 537  
 0  
 0 

Collateralized debt obligations 
 0  
 0  
 9,838  
 26,695 

Totals 
$59,384  
$800  
$10,500  
$26,796 

  
Management systematically
evaluates securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. Based upon application of accounting guidance for subsequent measurement
in ASC Topic 320 (ASC Section 320-10-35), management assesses whether (i) it has the intent to
sell a security being evaluated and (ii) it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the security
prior to its
 


[66]
 

 
anticipated
recovery. If neither applies, then declines in the fair values of securities below their cost that are considered other-than-temporary
declines are split into two components. The first is the loss attributable to declining credit quality. Credit losses are recognized
in earnings as realized losses in the period in which the impairment determination is made. The second component consists of all
other losses, which are recognized in other comprehensive loss. In estimating OTTI losses, management considers (a) the length
of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (b) adverse conditions specifically related to the security,
an industry, or a geographic area, (c) the historic and implied volatility of the fair value of the security, (d) changes in the
rating of the security by a rating agency, (e) recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet
date, (f) failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled interest or principal payments, and (g) the payment structure
of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that increase in the future. Management
also monitors cash flow projections for securities that are considered beneficial interests under the guidance of ASC Subtopic
325-40, Investments – Other – Beneficial Interests in Securitized Financial Assets, (ASC Section 325-40-35).
 


Management believes
that the valuation of certain securities is a critical accounting policy that requires significant estimates in preparation of
its consolidated financial statements. Management utilizes an independent third party to prepare both the impairment valuations
and fair value determinations for its CDO portfolio consisting of pooled trust preferred securities. Based on management’s
review of the third party evaluations, management believes that there were no material differences in the valuations between December
31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 
U.S. Government
Agencies - One U.S. government agency has been in a slight unrealized loss position for less than 12 months as of December
31, 2011. The security is of the highest investment grade and the Corporation does not intend to sell it, and it is not more likely
than not that the Corporation will be required to sell it before recovery of its amortized cost basis, which may be at maturity.
Therefore, no OTTI exists at December 31, 2011. There were no agency securities for which the cost has been less than market value
for a period longer than 12 months.
 
Residential Mortgage-Backed
Agencies - Eight residential mortgage-backed agencies have been in an unrealized loss position for less than 12 months as of
December 31, 2011. One residential mortgage-backed agency has been in slight unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. All
of these securities are of the highest investment grade and the Corporation does not intend to sell them, nor is it more likely
than not that the Corporation will be required to sell them before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be at maturity.
Therefore, no OTTI exists at December 31, 2011.
 
Collateralized Mortgage
Obligations – One collateralized mortgage obligation security at December 31, 2011 has been in an unrealized loss position
for 12 months or more. This security is a private label residential mortgage-backed security and is reviewed for factors such as
loan to value ratio, credit support levels, borrower FICO scores, geographic concentration, prepayment speeds, delinquencies, coverage
ratios and credit ratings. Management believes that this security continues to demonstrate collateral coverage ratios that are
adequate to support the Corporation’s investment. At the time of purchase, this security was of the highest investment grade
and was purchased at a discount relative to its face amount. As of December 31, 2011, this security remains at investment grade
and continues to perform as expected at the time of purchase. The Corporation does not intend to sell this security and it is not
more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the investment before recovery of its amortized cost basis,
which may be at maturity. Accordingly, management does not consider this investment to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December
31, 2011.
 
Obligations of State
and Political Subdivisions – The unrealized losses on the Corporation’s investments in state and political subdivisions
were $8,000 at December 31, 2011. Two securities have been in a slight unrealized loss position for 12 months or more. All of these
investments are of investment grade as determined by the major rating agencies and management reviews the ratings of the underlying
issuers. Management believes that this portfolio is well-diversified throughout the United States, and all bonds continue to perform
according to their contractual terms. The Corporation does not intend to sell these investments and it is not more likely than
not that the Corporation will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be at
maturity. Accordingly, management does not consider these investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011.
 
Collateralized Debt
Obligations - The $26.9 million in unrealized losses greater than 12 months at December 31, 2011 relates to 18 pooled trust
preferred securities that comprise the CDO portfolio. See Note 23 for a discussion of the methodology used by management to determine
the fair values of these securities. The Corporation recorded $19,000 in credit-related non-cash OTTI charges for the year ended
December 31, 2011. The unrealized losses on the remaining securities in the portfolio are primarily attributable to continued depression
in market interest rates, marketability, liquidity and the current economic environment.
  
The following table
presents a cumulative roll-forward of the amount of non-cash OTTI charges related to credit losses which have been recognized in
earnings for the trust preferred securities in the CDO portfolio held and not intended to be sold:
 


[67]
 

   


  
For the year ended 

  
December   
December  

(In thousands) 
31, 2011  
31, 2010 

Balance of credit-related OTTI at beginning of period 
$14,653  
$10,765 

Additions for credit-related OTTI not previously recognized 
 0  
 1,402 

Additional increases for credit-related OTTI previously recognized when there is no intent to sell and no requirement to sell before recovery of amortized cost basis 
 19  
 6,961 

Decreases for previously recognized credit-related OTTI because there was an intent to sell 
 0  
 (4,369)

Reduction for increases in cash flows expected to be collected 
 (248) 
 (106)

Balance of credit-related OTTI at end of period 
$14,424  
$14,653 

 
The amortized cost
and estimated fair value of securities available-for-sale by contractual maturity at December 31, 2011 are shown in the following
table. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right to call
or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
 


  
December 31, 2011 

  
Amortized  
Fair 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Value 

Contractual Maturity 
    
   

Due in one year or less 
$1,700  
$1,716 

Due after one year through five years 
 0  
 0 

Due after five years through ten years 
 42,119  
 42,820 

Due after ten years 
 83,480  
 59,307 

  
 127,299  
 103,843 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
 129,019  
 130,402 

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
 10,843  
 10,778 

  
$267,161  
$245,023 

 
At December 31, 2011
and 2010, investment securities with a fair value of $147 million and $121 million, respectively, were pledged as permitted or
required to secure public and trust deposits, for securities sold under agreements to repurchase as
required or permitted by law and as collateral for borrowing capacity.
 

7.Loans and Related Allowance for Loan Losses

 
The following
table summarizes the primary segments of the loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
   
   
   
   
   
  

  
   
Acquisition  
Commercial  
   
   
  

  
Commercial  
and  
and  
Residential  
   
  

(In thousands) 
Real Estate  
Development  
Industrial  
Mortgage  
Consumer  
Total 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total loans 
$336,234  
$142,871  
$78,697  
$347,220  
$33,672  
$938,694 

  Individually evaluated for impairment 
$16,942  
$25,699  
$13,048  
$6,116  
$21  
$61,826 

  Collectively evaluated for impairment 
$319,292  
$117,172  
$65,649  
$341,104  
$33,651  
$876,868 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total loans 
$348,584  
$156,892  
$69,992  
$356,742  
$77,543  
$1,009,753 

  Individually evaluated for impairment 
$16,270  
$31,196  
$5,131  
$9,854  
$152  
$62,603 

  Collectively evaluated for impairment 
$332,314  
$125,696  
$64,861  
$346,888  
$77,391  
$947,150 

 

[68]
 


  
The segments of the
Bank’s loan portfolio are disaggregated to a level that allows management to monitor risk and performance. The CRE loan segment
is then segregated into two classes. Non-owner occupied CRE loans, which include loans secured by non-owner occupied, nonfarm,
non-residential properties, generally have a greater risk profile than all other CRE loans, which include loans secured by farmland,
multifamily structures and owner-occupied commercial structures. The A&D loan segment is segregated into two classes. One-to-four
family residential construction loans are generally made to individuals for the acquisition of and/or construction on a lot or
lots on which a residential dwelling is to be built. All other A&D loans are generally made to developers or investors for
the purpose of acquiring, developing and constructing residential or commercial structures. These loans have a higher risk profile
because the ultimate buyer, once development is completed, is generally not known at the time of the A&D loan. The C&I
loan segment consists of loans made for the purpose of financing the activities of commercial customers. The residential mortgage
loan segment is segregated into two classes: (i) amortizing term loans, which are primarily first liens; and (ii) home equity lines
of credit, which are generally second liens. The consumer loan segment consists primarily of installment loans (direct and indirect)
and overdraft lines of credit connected with customer deposit accounts.
 
During the second quarter
of 2011, the Bank sold $32.5 million of the indirect auto portfolio that is included in the consumer loan class.
 
In the ordinary course
of business, executive officers and directors of the Corporation, including their families and companies in which certain directors
are principal owners, were loan customers of the Bank. Pursuant to the Bank’s lending policies, such loans were made on the
same terms, including collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with persons who are not related
to the Corporation and do not involve more than the normal risk of collectability. Changes in the dollar amount of loans outstanding
to officers, directors and their associates were as follows for the year ended December 31:
 


(In thousands) 
2011 

Balance at January 1 
$12,548 

Loans or advances 
 1,164 

Repayments 
 (1,971)

Balance at December 31 
$11,741 

 
Management uses a 10-point
internal risk rating system to monitor the credit quality of the overall loan portfolio. The first six categories are considered
not criticized and are aggregated as “Pass” rated. The criticized rating categories utilized by management generally
follow bank regulatory definitions. The Special Mention category includes assets that are currently protected but are potentially
weak, resulting in an undue and unwarranted credit risk, but not to the point of justifying a Substandard classification. Loans
in the Substandard category have well-defined weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt, and have a distinct possibility
that some loss will be sustained if the weaknesses are not corrected. All loans greater than 90 days past due are considered Substandard.
At December 2010, the portion of any loan that represented a specific allocation of the allowance for loan losses was placed in
the Doubtful category. Based upon consultation with the regulators, beginning with June 30, 2011, only the portion of a specific
allocation of the allowance for loan losses that management believes is associated with a pending event that could trigger loss in
the short term will be classified in the Doubtful category. Any portion of a loan that has been charged off is placed in the Loss
category. It is possible for a loan to be classified as Substandard in the internal risk rating system, but not considered impaired
under GAAP, due to the broader reach of “well-defined weaknesses” in the application of the Substandard definition.
 
To help ensure that
risk ratings are accurate and reflect the present and future capacity of borrowers to repay a loan as agreed, the Bank has a structured
loan rating process with several layers of internal and external oversight. Generally, consumer and residential mortgage loans
are included in the Pass categories unless a specific action, such as bankruptcy, repossession, or death occurs to raise awareness
of a possible credit event. The Bank’s Commercial Loan Officers are responsible for the timely and accurate risk rating of
the loans in the commercial segments at origination and on an ongoing basis. The Credit Quality Department performs an annual review
of all commercial relationships $500,000 or greater. Confirmation of the appropriate risk grade is included as part of the review
process on an ongoing basis. The Bank has an experienced Credit Quality and Loan Review Department that continually reviews and
assesses loans within the portfolio. In addition, the Bank engages an external consultant to conduct loan reviews on at least an
annual basis. Generally, the external consultant reviews commercial relationships greater than $750,000 and/or criticized relationships
greater than $500,000. Detailed reviews, including plans for resolution, are performed on loans classified as Substandard on a
quarterly basis. Loans in the Special Mention and Substandard categories that are collectively evaluated for impairment are given
separate consideration in the determination of the allowance.
  
The following table
presents the classes of the loan portfolio summarized by the aggregate Pass and the criticized categories of Special Mention, Substandard
and Doubtful within the internal risk rating system as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


[69]
 

  


  
   
Special  
   
   
  

(In thousands) 
Pass  
Mention  
Substandard  
Doubtful  
Total 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$119,574  
$4,222  
$32,212  
$0  
$156,008 

All other CRE 
 123,713  
 18,307  
 38,206  
 0  
 180,226 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 11,512  
 0  
 5,572  
 0  
 17,084 

All other A&D 
 81,268  
 935  
 43,584  
 0  
 125,787 

Commercial and industrial 
 62,152  
 697  
 15,848  
 0  
 78,697 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage - term 
 250,701  
 1,817  
 15,408  
 0  
 267,926 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 75,517  
 34  
 3,743  
 0  
 79,294 

Consumer 
 33,147  
 34  
 491  
 0  
 33,672 

Total 
$757,584  
$26,046  
$155,064  
$0  
$938,694 

  
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$121,144  
$9,541  
$33,914  
$2,768  
$167,367 

All other CRE 
 123,115  
 8,995  
 49,027  
 80  
 181,217 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 7,038  
 0  
 6,876  
 334  
 14,248 

All other A&D 
 86,352  
 4,664  
 50,487  
 1,141  
 142,644 

Commercial and industrial 
 46,760  
 2,933  
 20,299  
 0  
 69,992 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage - term 
 255,916  
 2,634  
 18,576  
 43  
 277,169 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 76,828  
 0  
 2,745  
 0  
 79,573 

Consumer 
 76,736  
 23  
 784  
 0  
 77,543 

Total 
$793,889  
$28,790  
$182,708  
$4,366  
$1,009,753 

 
Management further
monitors the performance and credit quality of the loan portfolio by analyzing the age of the portfolio as determined by the length
of time a recorded payment is past due. A loan is considered to be past due when a payment has not been received for 30 days past
its contractual due date. For all loan segments, the accrual of interest is discontinued when principal or interest is delinquent
for 90 days or more unless the loan is well-secured and in the process of collection. All non-accrual loans are considered to be
impaired. Interest payments received on non-accrual loans are applied as a reduction of the loan principal balance. Loans are returned
to accrual status when all principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably
assured. The Corporation’s policy for recognizing interest income on impaired loans does not differ from its overall policy
for interest recognition.
 

[70]
 


 
The following table
presents the classes of the loan portfolio summarized by the aging categories of performing loans and non-accrual loans as of December
31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
   
   
   
   
Total Past   
   
  

  
   
   
   
   
Due and   
   
  

  
   
30-59 Days  
60-89 Days  
90 Days+  
still  
Non-  
  

(In thousands) 
Current  
Past Due  
Past Due  
 Past Due  
accruing  
Accrual  
Total Loans 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$146,150  
$359  
$209  
$0  
$568  
$9,290  
$156,008 

All other CRE 
 173,342  
 558  
 5,547  
 0  
 6,105  
 779  
 180,226 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 17,009  
 0  
 75  
 0  
 75  
 0  
 17,084 

All other A&D 
 109,351  
 840  
 530  
 128  
 1,498  
 14,938  
 125,787 

Commercial and industrial 
 69,119  
 182  
 32  
 0  
 214  
 9,364  
 78,697 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage - term 
 249,719  
 10,106  
 3,753  
 1,386  
 15,245  
 2,962  
 267,926 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 77,486  
 476  
 375  
 123  
 974  
 834  
 79,294 

Consumer 
 31,478  
 1,560  
 471  
 142  
 2,173  
 21  
 33,672 

Total 
$873,654  
$14,081  
$10,992  
$1,779  
$26,852  
$38,188  
$938,694 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$146,470  
$892  
$8,801  
$0  
$9,693  
$11,204  
$167,367 

All other CRE 
 179,661  
 581  
 286  
 0  
 867  
 689  
 181,217 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 13,626  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 622  
 14,248 

All other A&D 
 124,731  
 1,950  
 188  
 128  
 2,266  
 15,647  
 142,644 

Commercial and industrial 
 67,688  
 883  
 22  
 44  
 949  
 1,355  
 69,992 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage – term 
 253,225  
 12,168  
 4,455  
 2,359  
 18,982  
 4,962  
 277,169 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 78,533  
 559  
 129  
 78  
 766  
 274  
 79,573 

Consumer 
 74,392  
 2,116  
 700  
 183  
 2,999  
 152  
 77,543 

Total 
$938,326  
$19,149  
$14,581  
$2,792  
$36,522  
$34,905  
$1,009,753 

 
Non-accrual loans which
have been subject to a partial charge-off totaled $13.4 million as of December 31, 2011, compared to $2.9 million as of December
31, 2010.
 
The ALL is maintained
to absorb losses from the loan portfolio. The ALL is based on management’s continuing evaluation of the risk characteristics
and credit quality of the loan portfolio, assessment of current economic conditions, diversification and size of the portfolio,
adequacy of collateral, past and anticipated loss experience, and the amount of non-performing loans.
 
The Bank’s methodology
for determining the ALL is based on the requirements of ASC Section 310-10-35, Receivables-Overall-Subsequent Measurement,
for loans individually evaluated for impairment and ASC Subtopic 450-20, Contingencies-Loss Contingencies, for loans
collectively evaluated for impairment, as well as the Interagency Policy Statements on the Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
and other bank regulatory guidance. The total of the two components represents the Bank’s ALL.
 

[71]
 


 
The following table
summarizes the primary segments of the ALL, segregated into the amount required for loans individually evaluated for impairment
and the amount required for loans collectively evaluated for impairment as of December31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 


  
   
Acquisition  
Commercial  
   
   
  

  
Commercial  
and  
and  
Residential  
   
  

(In thousands) 
Real Estate  
Development  
Industrial  
Mortgage  
Consumer  
Total 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total ALL 
$6,218  
$7,190  
$2,190  
$3,430  
$452  
$19,480 

Attributable to loans: Individually evaluated for impairment 
$92  
$2,718  
$1,139  
$2  
$0  
$3,951 

Collectively evaluated for impairment 
$6,126  
$4,472  
$1,051  
$3,428  
$452  
$15,529 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total ALL 
$8,658  
$6,345  
$1,345  
$4,211  
$1,579  
$22,138 

Attributable to loans: Individually evaluated for impairment 
$2,848  
$1,475  
$0  
$43  
$0  
$4,366 

  Collectively evaluated for impairment 
$5,810  
$4,870  
$1,345  
$4,168  
$1,579  
$17,772 

 
Management evaluates
individual loans in all of the commercial segments for possible impairment if the loan is greater than $500,000 or is part of a
relationship that is greater than $750,000, and (i) is either in nonaccrual status, or (ii) is risk-rated Substandard and is greater
than 60 days past due. Loans are considered to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the
Bank will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the
loan agreement. Factors considered by management in evaluating impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability
of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Management determines the significance of payment delays and
payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower,
including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record, and the amount of the
shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. The Bank does not separately evaluate individual consumer and residential
mortgage loans for impairment, unless such loans are part of larger relationship that is impaired; otherwise loans in these segments
are considered impaired when they are classified as non-accrual.
 
Once the determination
has been made that a loan is impaired, the determination of whether a specific allocation of the allowance is necessary is measured
by comparing the recorded investment in the loan to the fair value of the loan using one of three methods: (i) the present value
of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate; (ii) the loan’s observable market price;
or (iii) the fair value of the collateral less selling costs. The method is selected on a loan-by-loan basis, with management utilizing
the fair value of collateral method for 95% of the analyses. If the fair value of the collateral less selling costs method is utilized
for collateral securing loans in the commercial segments, then an updated external appraisal is ordered on the collateral supporting
the loan if the loan balance is greater than $500,000 and the existing appraisal is greater than 18 months old. If an appraisal
is less than 12 months old (the age at which the internal appraisal grid begins) and if management believes that general market
conditions in that geographic market have changed considerably, the property has deteriorated or perhaps lost an income stream,
or a recent appraisal for a similar property indicates a significant change, then management may adjust the fair value indicated
by the existing appraisal until a new appraisal is obtained. If the most recent appraisal is greater than 12 months old or if an
updated appraisal has not been received and reviewed in time for the determination of estimated fair value at quarter (or year)
end, then the estimated fair value of the collateral is determined by adjusting the existing appraisal by the appropriate percentage
from an internally prepared appraisal discount grid. This grid considers the age of a third party appraisal and the geographic
region where the collateral is located in order to discount an appraisal that is greater than 12 months old. The discount rates
in the appraisal discount grid are updated at least annually to reflect the most current knowledge that management has available,
including the results of current appraisals. If there is a delay in receiving an updated appraisal or if the appraisal is found
to be deficient in our internal appraisal review process and re-ordered, the Bank continues to use a discount factor from the appraisal
discount grid based on the collateral location and current appraisal age in order to determine the estimated fair value. A specific
allocation of the ALL is recorded if there is any deficiency in collateral value determined by comparing the estimated fair value
to the recorded investment of the loan. When updated appraisals are received and reviewed, adjustments are made to the specific
allocation as needed.
 
The evaluation of the
need and amount of a specific allocation of the ALL and whether a loan can be removed from impairment status is made on a quarterly
basis.
 

[72]
 


 
The following table
presents impaired loans by class, segregated by those for which a specific allowance was required and those for which a specific
allowance was not necessary as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
   
Impaired  
  

  
   
Loans with  
  

  
Impaired Loans with  
No Specific  
  

  
Specific Allowance  
Allowance  
Total Impaired Loans 

  
   
   
   
   
Unpaid 

  
Recorded  
Related  
Recorded  
Recorded  
Principal 

(in thousands) 
Investment  
Allowance  
Investment  
Investment  
Balance 

December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$448  
$92  
$9,129  
$9,577  
$14,765 

All other CRE 
 0  
 0  
 7,365  
 7,365  
 7,390 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 2,489  
 859  
 0  
 2,489  
 2,577 

All other A&D 
 7,850  
 1,859  
 15,360  
 23,210  
 27,712 

Commercial and industrial 
 9,043  
 1,139  
 4,005  
 13,048  
 13,137 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage - term 
 218  
 2  
 4,816  
 5,034  
 5,488 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 0  
 0  
 1,082  
 1,082  
 1,177 

Consumer 
 0  
 0  
 21  
 21  
 33 

Total impaired loans 
$20,048  
$3,951  
$41,778  
$61,826  
$72,279 

  
    
    
    
    
   

December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$8,183  
$2,768  
$4,635  
$12,818  
$12,818 

All other CRE 
 713  
 80  
 2,740  
 3,453  
 3,478 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 2,823  
 334  
 622  
 3,445  
 3,491 

All other A&D 
 7,269  
 1,141  
 20,482  
 27,751  
 31,284 

Commercial and industrial 
 0  
 0  
 5,131  
 5,131  
 6,540 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage - term 
 725  
 43  
 8,606  
 9,331  
 10,086 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 0  
 0  
 522  
 522  
 522 

Consumer 
 0  
 0  
 152  
 152  
 153 

Total impaired loans 
$19,713  
$4,366  
$42,890  
$62,603  
$68,372 

 
Loans that are collectively
evaluated for impairment are analyzed with general allowances being made as appropriate. For general allowances, historical loss
trends are used in the estimation of losses in the current portfolio. These historical loss amounts are modified by other qualitative
factors.
 
The classes described
above, which are based on the Federal call code assigned to each loan, provide the starting point for the ALL analysis. Management
tracks the historical net charge-off activity (full and partial charge-offs, net of full and partial recoveries) at the call code
level. A historical charge-off factor is calculated utilizing a defined number of consecutive historical quarters. Consumer pools
currently utilize a rolling 12 quarters, while Commercial pools currently utilize a rolling eight quarters.
 
“Pass”
rated credits are segregated from “Criticized” credits for the application of qualitative factors. The un-criticized
(“pass”) pools for commercial and residential real estate are further segmented based upon the geographic location
of the underlying collateral. There are seven geographic regions utilized – six that represent the Bank’s lending footprint
and a seventh for all out-of-market credits. Different economic environments and resultant credit risks exist in each region that
are acknowledged in the assignment of qualitative factors. Loans in the criticized pools, which possess certain qualities or characteristics
that may lead to collection and loss issues, are closely monitored by management and subject to additional qualitative factors.
 
Management has identified
a number of additional qualitative factors which it uses to supplement the historical charge-off factor because these factors
are likely to cause estimated credit losses associated with the existing loan pools to differ from historical loss experience.
The additional factors that are evaluated quarterly and updated using information obtained from internal, regulatory, and governmental
sources are: (i) national and local economic trends and conditions; (ii) levels of and trends in delinquency rates and 
 


[73]
 

 
non-accrual
loans; (iii) trends in volumes and terms of loans; (iv) effects of changes in lending policies; (v) experience, ability, and depth
of lending staff; (vi) value of underlying collateral; and (vii) concentrations of credit from a loan type, industry and/or geographic
standpoint.
  
Management reviews
the loan portfolio on a quarterly basis using a defined, consistently applied process in order to make appropriate and timely adjustments
to the ALL. When information confirms all or part of specific loans to be uncollectible, these amounts are promptly charged off
against the ALL. Residential mortgage and consumer loans are charged off after they are 120 days contractually past due. All other
loans are charged off based on an evaluation of the facts and circumstances of each individual loan. When the Bank believes that
its ability to collect is solely dependent on the liquidation of the collateral, a full or partial charge-off is recorded promptly
to bring the recorded investment to an amount that the Bank believes is supported by an ability to collect on the collateral. The
circumstances that may impact the Bank’s decision to charge-off all or a portion of a loan include default or non-payment
by the borrower, scheduled foreclosure actions, and/or prioritization of the Bank’s claim in bankruptcy. There may be circumstances
where due to pending events, the Bank will place a specific allocation of the ALL on a loan for which a partial charge-off has
been previously recognized. This specific allocation may be either charged-off or removed depending upon the outcome of the pending
event. Full or partial charge-offs are not recovered until full principal and interest on the loan have been collected, even if
a subsequent appraisal supports a higher value. Loans with partial charge-offs remain in non-accrual status. Both full and partial
charge-offs reduce the recorded investment of the loan and the ALL and are considered to be charge-offs for purposes of all credit
loss metrics and trends, including the historical rolling charge-off rates used in the determination of the ALL.
 
Activity in the ALL
is presented for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
Commercial  
Acquisition  
Commercial  
  
   
  

  
Real
Estate  
and
Development  
and
Industrial  
Residential
Mortgage  
Consumer  
Total 

ALL balance at January 1, 2011 
$8,658  
$6,345  
$1,345  
$4,211  
$1,579  
$22,138 

Charge-offs 
 (6,886) 
 (3,055) 
 (840) 
 (1,664) 
 (893) 
 (13,338)

Recoveries 
 95  
 322  
 57  
 550  
 499  
 1,523 

Provision 
 4,351  
 3,578  
 1,628  
 333  
 (733) 
 9,157 

ALL balance at December 31, 2011 
 6,218  
 7,190  
 2,190  
 3,430  
 452  
 19,480 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

ALL balance at January 1, 2010 
$5,351  
$7,922  
$1,945  
$3,061  
$1,811  
$20,090 

Charge-offs 
 (543) 
 (9,770) 
 (2,225) 
 (2,008) 
 (1,791) 
 (16,337)

Recoveries 
 94  
 1,097  
 538  
 391  
 539  
 2,659 

Provision 
 3,756  
 7,096  
 1,087  
 2,767  
 1,020  
 15,726 

ALL balance at December 31, 2010 
$8,658  
$6,345  
$1,345  
$4,211  
$1,579  
$22,138 

 
The ALL is based on
estimates, and actual losses will vary from current estimates. Management believes that the granularity of the homogeneous pools
and the related historical loss ratios and other qualitative factors, as well as the consistency in the application of assumptions,
result in an ALL that is representative of the risk found in the components of the portfolio at any given date.
 

[74]
 


 
The following table
presents the average recorded investment in impaired loans and related interest income recognized for the periods indicated:
 


  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

  
   
Interest  
   
   
Interest  
  

  
   
income  
Interest  
   
income  
Interest 

  
   
recognized  
income  
   
recognized  
income 

  
   
on an  
recognized  
   
on an  
recognized 

  
Average  
accrual  
on a  
Average  
accrual  
on a 

(in thousands) 
investment  
basis  
cash basis  
investment  
basis  
cash basis 

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
$12,643  
$44  
$91  
$10,531  
$251  
$0 

All other CRE 
 6,781  
 269  
 52  
 13,596  
 574  
 0 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 2,834  
 94  
 0  
 1,566  
 34  
 0 

All other A&D 
 25,860  
 547  
 81  
 52,152  
 826  
 0 

Commercial and industrial 
 11,960  
 155  
 0  
 8,477  
 262  
 0 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage - term 
 6,415  
 144  
 16  
 8,049  
 234  
 0 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 724  
 14  
 4  
 2,689  
 71  
 0 

Consumer 
 53  
 0  
 0  
 76  
 0  
 0 

Total 
$67,270  
 1,267  
 244  
$97,136  
$2,252  
$0 

 
In the normal course
of business, the Bank modifies loan terms for various reasons. These reasons may include as a retention strategy to compete in
the current interest rate environment, and to re-amortize or extend a loan term to better match the loan’s payment stream
with the borrower’s cash flows. A modified loan is considered to be a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”) when
the Bank has determined that the borrower is troubled (i.e. experiencing financial difficulties). The Bank evaluates the probability
that the borrower will be in payment default on any of its debt in the foreseeable future without modification. To make this determination,
the Bank performs a global financial review of the borrower and loan guarantors to assess their current ability to meet their financial
obligations.
 
When the Bank restructures
a loan to a troubled borrower, the loan terms (i.e. interest rate, payment, amortization period and/or maturity date) are modified
in such a way to enable the borrower to cover the modified debt service payments based on current financials and cash flow adequacy.
If a borrower’s hardship is thought to be temporary, then modified terms are only offered for that time period. Where possible,
the Bank obtains additional collateral and/or secondary payment sources at the time of the restructure in order to put the Bank
in the best possible position if the borrower is not able to meet the modified terms. To date, the Bank has not forgiven any principal
as a restructuring concession. The Bank will not offer modified terms if it believes that modifying the loan terms will only delay
an inevitable permanent default.
 
All loans designated
as TDRs are considered impaired loans and may be in either accruing or non-accruing status. The Corporation’s policy for
recognizing interest income on impaired loans does not differ from its overall policy for interest recognition. Accordingly, the
accrual of interest is discontinued when principal or interest is delinquent for 90 days or more unless the loan is well-secured
and in the process of collection. If the loan was accruing at the time of the modification, then it continues to be in accruing
status subsequent to the modification. Non-accrual TDRs may return to accruing status when there has been sufficient payment performance
for a period of at least six months. TDRs are considered to be in payment default if, subsequent to modification, the loans are
transferred to non-accrual status. Loans may be removed from TDR status in the calendar year following the modification if the
interest rate at the time of modification was consistent with the interest rate for a loan with comparable credit risk and the
loan has performed according to its modified terms for at least six months.
 
There were 23 loans
totaling $18.0 million and 22 loans totaling $15.1 million that were classified as TDRs at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively. The following table presents the volume and recorded investment at the time of modification of TDRs
by class and type of modification that occurred during the periods indicated:
 

[75]
 


 


  
Temporary Rate  
   
Modification of Payment 

  
Modification  
Extension of Maturity  
and Other Terms 

  
  
Recorded  
  
Recorded  
  
Recorded 

 
Number of  
Investment  
Number of  
Investment  
Number of  
Investment 

(in thousands)  
Contracts   
(1)  
Contracts   
(1)  
Contracts   
(1) 

For the year ended December  31, 2011 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
 0  
$0  
 3  
$809  
 0  
$0 

All other CRE 
 1  
 3,233  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 1  
 2,491 

All other A&D 
 0  
 0  
 8  
 8,508  
 2  
 328 

Commercial and industrial 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage – term 
 2  
 234  
 2  
 513  
 0  
 0 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Consumer 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Total (2) 
 3  
$3,467  
 13  
$9,830  
 3  
$2,819 

 For the year ended December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial real estate 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Non owner-occupied 
 0  
$0  
 0  
$0  
 0  
$0 

All other CRE 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Acquisition and development 
    
    
    
    
    
   

1-4 family residential construction 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 1  
 324 

All other A&D 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 3  
 3,185 

Commercial and industrial 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Residential mortgage 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Residential mortgage – term 
 3  
 594  
 0  
 0  
 1  
 29 

Residential mortgage – home equity 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Consumer 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Total 
 3  
$594  
 0  
$0  
 5  
$3,538 

 
Notes:


(1)The post-modification recorded investment balances were the same as the pre-modification recorded
investment balances, as there were no charge-offs as a result of any of the restructurings.

(2)Includes $6.7 million of 8 existing TDRs that were restructured during the period with new terms
providing a concession.
 
If a loan was considered
to be impaired prior to modification as a TDR, then there is no impact on the ALL as a result of the modification, because the
loan was already being evaluated individually for impairment. If a loan was not impaired prior to modification as a TDR, then there
could be an impact on the ALL as a result of the modification because of the movement of the loan from the pools of loans being
evaluated collectively for impairment to being evaluated individually for impairment. There was a $220,000 reduction to the ALL
relating to four loans totaling $5.5 million modified as TDRs in 2011, resulting from the movement of these loans being evaluated
collectively for impairment to being evaluated individually for impairment. The volume and type of TDR activity are considered
in the assessment of the local economic trends qualitative factor used in the determination of the ALL for loans that are evaluated
collectively for impairment.
 
Two other A&D TDRs,
totaling $2.3 million, that were modified in 2011 were transferred to non-accrual status subsequent to their modification and were
considered to be in payment default.
 
At December 31, 2011
and 2010, additional funds of up to $1.6 million and $1.9 million, respectively, were committed to be advanced in connection with
TDRs.
  

[76]
 


 

8.Premises and Equipment

 
The composition
of premises and equipment at December 31 is as follows:
  


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Land 
$9,297  
$9,297 

Land Improvements 
 1,112  
 1,112 

Premises 
 25,299  
 25,254 

Furniture and Equipment 
 16,671  
 16,612 

Capital Lease 
 535  
 535 

  
 52,914  
 52,810 

Less accumulated depreciation 
 (22,088) 
 (19,865)

Total 
$30,826  
$32,945 

 
The Corporation recorded
depreciation expense of $2.3 million and $2.5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Pursuant to the terms
of noncancelable operating lease agreements for banking and subsidiaries’ offices and for data processing and telecommunications
equipment in effect at December 31, 2011, future minimum rent commitments under these leases for future
years are as follows: (i) $3.5 million for 2012; (ii) $3.4 million for 2013; (iii) $3.3 million for 2014; (iv) $2.5 million for
2015; (v) $2.4 million for 2016; and (vi) $9.2 million thereafter. The leases contain options to extend for periods from one to
five years, which are not included in the aforementioned amounts.
 
Total rent expense
for offices amounted to $.6 million in 2011 and $1.0 million in 2010.
 

9.Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets


 
ASC Topic 350, Intangibles
- Goodwill and Other, establishes standards for the amortization of acquired intangible assets and
impairment assessment of goodwill.  We have $1.6 million related to acquisitions of insurance “books of business”
which is subject to amortization. The $12.9 million in recorded
goodwill is primarily related to the acquisition of Huntington National Bank branches that occurred in 2003 and the acquisition
of insurance books of business in 2008 that are not subject to periodic amortization.
 
Goodwill arising from
business combinations represents the value attributable to unidentifiable intangible elements in the business acquired. Goodwill
is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
asset might be impaired. Impairment testing requires that the fair value of each of the Corporation’s reporting units be
compared to the carrying amount of its net assets, including goodwill.  If the estimated current fair value of the reporting
unit exceeds its carrying value, then no additional testing is required and an impairment loss is not recorded. Otherwise, additional
testing is performed and, to the extent such additional testing results in a conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds
its implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized.
 
Our goodwill relates
to value inherent in the banking business and the value is dependent upon our ability to provide quality, cost effective services
in a highly competitive local market.  This ability relies upon continuing investments in processing systems, the development
of value-added service features and the ease of use of our services.  As such, goodwill value is supported ultimately by revenue
that is driven by the volume of business transacted.  A decline in earnings as a result of a lack of growth or the inability
to deliver cost effective services over sustained periods can lead to impairment of goodwill, which could adversely impact earnings
in future periods.  ASC Topic 350 requires an annual evaluation of goodwill for impairment.  The determination of whether
or not these assets are impaired involves significant judgments and estimates. 
 
Throughout
2011, consistent with First United Corporation’s peer group, the shares of First United Corporation common stock traded below
its book value.  At December 31, 2011, First United Corporation’s stock price was significantly below its tangible
book value.  Management believed that these circumstances could indicate the possibility of impairment. Accordingly, management
consulted a third party valuation specialist to assist it with the determination of the fair value of First United Corporation,
considering both the market approach (guideline public company method) and the income approach (discounted future benefits method).
Due to the illiquidity in the common stock and the adverse conditions surrounding the banking industry, reliance was placed on
the income approach in determining the fair value of First United Corporation. The income approach is a discounted cash flow analysis
that is determined by adding (i) the present value, which is a representation of the current value of a sum that is to be received
some time in the future, of the estimated net income, net of dividends paid out, that First United Corporation could generate over
the next five years and (ii) the present value of a terminal value, which is a representation of the current value of an entity
at a specified time in the future.  The terminal value was calculated using both a price to tangible book multiple method
and a capitalization method and the more conservative of the two was utilized in the fair value calculation.  
 

[77]
 


 
Significant assumptions
used in the above methods include:
 

·Net income from First United Corporation’s
forward five-year operating budget, incorporating conservative growth and mix assumptions;

·A discount rate of 11.0% based on the
most recent [third quarter of 2011] Cost of Capital Report from Morningstar/Ibbotson Associates for the Commercial Banking Sector
adjusted for a size and risk premium of 302 basis points;

·A price to tangible book multiple of 1.12,
which was the median multiple of commercial bank mergers and acquisitions during 2011 for selling banks and holding companies with
non-performing assets to average assets between 4.0% and 6.0%, as provided by Sheshunoff & Co.; and

·A capitalization rate of 8.0% (discount
rate of 11.0% adjusted for a conservative growth rate of 3.0%).
 
The resulting fair
value of the income approach resulted in the fair value of First United Corporation exceeding the carrying value by 66%. 
Management stressed the assumptions used in the analysis to provide additional support for the derived value.  This stress
testing showed that (i) the discount rate could increase to 27% before the excess would be eliminated in the tangible multiple
method, and (ii) the assumption of the tangible book multiple could decline to 0.41 and still result in a fair value in excess
of book value.  Based on the results of the evaluation, management concluded that the recorded value of goodwill at December
31, 2011 was not impaired.  However, future changes in strategy and/or market conditions could significantly impact these
judgments and require adjustments to recorded asset balances. Management will continue to evaluate goodwill
for impairment on an annual basis and as events occur or circumstances change.
 
The significant components
of goodwill and acquired intangible assets at December 31 are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
   
Weighted  
   
   
   
Weighted 

  
Gross   
   
Net   
Average  
Gross  
   
Net   
Average 

  
Carrying  
Accumulated  
Carrying  
Remaining  
Carrying  
Accumulated  
Carrying  
Remaining 

(In thousands) 
Amount  
Amortization  
Amount  
Life  
Amount  
Amortization  
Amount  
Life 

Goodwill 
$12,856  
$0  
$12,856  
    
$12,856  
$0  
$12,856  
   

Core deposit intangible assets 
 0  
 0  
 0  
    
 4,040  
 (4,040) 
 0  
   

Insurance agency book of businesses 
 1,844  
 (268) 
 1,576  
 0  
 2,884  
 (1,040) 
 1,844  
 7.1 

Total 
$14,700  
$(268) 
$14,432  
    
$19,780  
$(5,080) 
$14,700  
   

 
Amortization expense
relating to amortizable intangible assets was $0.3 million in 2011 and $.7 million in 2010.
 

10.Deposits

 
The aggregate amount
of time deposits with a minimum denomination of $100,000 was $238.0 million and $435.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. At December 31, 2011, $2.0 million of deposit overdrafts were re-classified as loans.
 
The following is a
summary of the scheduled maturities of all time deposits as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):
 


2012 
$238,853 

2013 
 77,557 

2014 
 39,818 

2015 
 39,022 

2016 
 59,105 

Thereafter 
 0 

 
In the ordinary course of business, executive
officers and directors of the Corporation, including their families and companies in which certain directors are principal owners,
were deposit customers of the Bank. Pursuant to the Bank’s policies, such deposits are on the same terms as those prevailing
at the time for comparable deposits with persons who are not related to the Corporation. At December 31, 2011, executive officers
and directors had approximately $13.8 million in deposits with the Corporation.
 

[78]
 


 

11.Borrowed Funds

 
The following is a
summary of short-term borrowings at December 31 with original maturities of less than one year:
 


(Dollars in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase: 
    
   

  Outstanding at end of year 
$36,868  
$39,139 

  Weighted average interest rate at year end 
 0.64% 
 0.72%

  Maximum amount outstanding as of any month end 
$51,403  
$49,940 

  Average amount outstanding 
 41,728  
 41,434 

  Approximate weighted average rate during the year 
 0.56% 
 0.68%

 
At December 31, 2011, the repurchase agreements
were secured by $46.4 million in available-for-sale investment securities.
 
The following is a
summary of long-term borrowings at December 31 with original maturities exceeding one year:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

FHLB advances, bearing fixed interest at rates ranging from 1.34% to 4.73% at December 31, 2011 
$160,314  
$196,370 

Junior subordinated debt, bearing variable interest rates ranging from 2.40 % to 3.31 % at December 31, 2011 
 35,929  
 35,929 

Junior subordinated debt, bearing fixed interest at rate of 9.88% at December 31, 2011 
 10,801  
 10,801 

  
$207,044  
$243,100 

 
At December 31, 2011, the long-term FHLB
advances were secured by $147.1 million in loans and $22.8 million in 	investment securities.
 
The contractual maturities of long-term
borrowings are as follows:
 


  
December 31, 

  
2011  
  

  
Fixed  
Floating  
   
2010 

  
Rate  
Rate  
Total  
Total 

Due in 2011 
$0  
$0  
$0  
$51,000 

Due in 2012 
 44,250  
 0  
 44,250  
 44,250 

Due in 2013 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Due in 2014 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Due in 2015 
 30,000  
 5,000  
 35,000  
 35,000 

Due in 2016 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 

Thereafter 
 96,865  
 30,929  
 127,794  
 112,850 

Total long-term debt 
$171,115  
$35,929  
$207,044  
$243,100 

 
The Bank has a borrowing
capacity agreement with the FHLB in an amount equal to 29% of the Bank’s assets. At December 31, 2011, the available line
of credit equaled $401 million. This line of credit, which can be used for both short and long-term funding, can only be utilized
to the extent of available collateral. The line is secured by certain qualified mortgage, commercial and home equity loans, investment
securities and cash as follows (in thousands):
  


1-4 family mortgage loans 
$122,722 

Commercial loans 
 3,580 

Multi-family loans 
 1,271 

Home equity loans 
 19,582 

Cash 
 0 

Investment securities 
 22,827 

  
$169,982 

 


[79]
 


 
At December 31, 2011,
$9.7 million was available for additional borrowings.
 
The Bank also has various
unsecured lines of credit totaling $26.0 million with various financial institutions and a $9 million secured line with the Federal
Reserve to meet daily liquidity requirements. As of December 31, 2011, there were no borrowings under these credit facilities.
In addition, there was approximately $154 million of available funding through brokered money market funds at December 31, 2011.
 
Repurchase Agreements—The
Bank has retail repurchase agreements with customers within its local market areas. Repurchase agreements generally have maturities
of one to four days from the transaction date. These borrowings are collateralized with securities that we own and are held in
safekeeping at independent correspondent banks.
 
FHLB
Advances—The FHLB advances consist of various borrowings with maturities generally ranging from five to 10 years
with initial fixed rate periods of one, two or three years. After the initial fixed rate period,
the FHLB has one or more options to convert each advance to a LIBOR based, variable rate advance, but the Bank may repay the advance
in whole or in part, without a penalty, if the FHLB exercises its option. At all other times, the Bank’s early repayment
of any advance could be subject to a prepayment penalty.
 

12.Junior Subordinated Debentures and Restrictions on
Dividends

   
In March 2004, Trust
I and Trust II issued preferred securities with an aggregate liquidation amount of $30.0 million to third-party investors and
issued common equity with an aggregate liquidation amount of $.9 million to First United Corporation. Trust I and Trust II used
the proceeds of these offerings to purchase an equal amount of TPS Debentures, as follows: 
 
$20.6 million—floating rate payable quarterly
based on three-month LIBOR plus 275 basis points (3.31% at December 31, 2011), maturing in 2034, became
redeemable five years after issuance at First United Corporation’s option.
 
$10.3 million—floating rate payable quarterly
based on three-month LIBOR plus 275 basis points (3.31% at December 31, 2011) maturing in 2034, became redeemable
five years after issuance at First United Corporation’s option.
 
In December 2004, First
United Corporation issued $5.0 million of junior subordinated debentures to third-party investors that were not tied to
preferred securities. The debentures had a fixed rate of 5.88% for the first five years, payable quarterly,
and converted to a floating rate in March 2010 based on the three month LIBOR plus 185 basis points (2.40% at December 31, 2011).
The debentures mature in 2015, but became redeemable five years after issuance at First United Corporation’s option.
 
In December 2009, Trust
III issued 9.875% fixed-rate preferred securities with an aggregate liquidation amount of approximately $7.0 million to private
investors and issued common securities to First United Corporation with an aggregate liquidation
amount of approximately $.2 million. Trust III used the proceeds of the offering to purchase approximately $7.2 million of 9.875%
fixed-rate TPS Debentures. Interest on these TPS Debentures are payable quarterly, and the TPS
Debentures mature in 2040 but are redeemable five years after issuance at First United Corporation’s
option.
 
In January 2010, Trust
III issued an additional $3.5 million of 9.875% fixed-rate preferred securities to private investors and issued common securities
to First United Corporation with an aggregate liquidation amount of $.1 million. Trust III used
the proceeds of the offering to purchase $3.6 million of 9.875% fixed-rate TPS Debentures. Interest
on these TPS Debentures are payable quarterly, and the TPS Debentures mature in 2040 but are
redeemable five years after issuance at First United Corporation’s option.
 
The TPS Debentures
issued to each of the Trusts represent the sole assets of that Trust, and payments of the TPS Debentures by First
United Corporation are the only sources of cash flow for the Trust. First United Corporation
has the right, without triggering a default, to defer interest on all of the TPS Debentures for up to 20 quarterly periods, in
which case distributions on the preferred securities will also be deferred. Should this occur, the Corporation
may not pay dividends or distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or acquire any shares of its capital stock. 
 
At
the request of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (the “Reserve Bank”), the board of directors of First United Corporation
elected to defer quarterly interest payments under its TPS Debentures beginning with the payment that was due in March 2011. As
of December 31, 2011, this deferral election remained in effect and accumulated deferred interest in the amount of $2.2 million
has been accrued and are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.  All accumulated
deferred interest must be paid in full when the board of directors elects to terminate the deferral of interest payments. Management
cannot predict whether or when the board of directors will terminate the deferral prior to the 20-quarter maximum permitted by
the terms of the TPS Debentures. First United Corporation’s ability to resume quarterly interest payments will depend primarily
on our earnings in future periods.
 

[80]
 


 
Interest payments on
the $5.0 million junior subordinated debentures that were issued outside of trust preferred securities offerings cannot, and have
not, been deferred.
 
The
terms of the Series A Preferred Stock call for the payment, if declared by the board of directors of First United Corporation,
of cash dividends on February 15th, May 15th, August 15th and November 15th of each
year. On November 15, 2010, at the request of the Reserve Bank, the board of directors of First United Corporation voted to defer
the payment of quarterly cash dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock beginning with the November 15, 2010 dividend payment date.
As of December 31, 2011, this deferral election remained in effect and accumulated deferred dividends in the amount of $1.9 million
has been accrued and are reflected on the consolidated financial statements. During the deferral period, dividends continue to
accrue at the rate of $.4 million per dividend period. All accumulated deferred dividends must be paid in full if and when the
board of directors declares the next quarterly cash dividend. Management cannot predict whether or when First United Corporation
will resume the payment of quarterly dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. First United Corporation’s ability to pay
cash dividends in the future will depend primarily on our earnings in future periods.
 
In December 2010, the
Board of Directors of First United Corporation voted to suspend the payment of cash dividends on the common stock starting in 2011
in connection with the above-mentioned deferral of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock.
 

13.Preferred Stock

 
On January 30,
2009, pursuant to the TARP CPP, First United Corporation issued to the Treasury 30,000 shares
of its Series A Preferred Stock, having no par value, and a Warrant to purchase 326,323 shares of common stock at an exercise price
of $13.79 per share, for an aggregate consideration of $30 million. The proceeds from this transaction qualify as Tier 1 capital
and the Warrant qualifies as tangible common equity. The operative documents relating to this transaction are on file with the
SEC and available to the public free of charge.
Holders
of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive, if and when declared by the Board of Directors, out of assets legally
available for payment, cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum of 5% per share on a liquidation amount of $1,000 per share
of Series A Preferred Stock with respect to each dividend period from January 30, 2009 to, but excluding, February 15, 2014. From
and after February 15, 2014, holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive cumulative cash dividends at a rate per
annum of 9% per share on a liquidation amount of $1,000 per share with respect to each dividend period thereafter. Under
the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, on and after February 15, 2012, First United Corporation
may, at its option, redeem shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, for cash
at a per share amount equal to the sum of the liquidation preference per share plus any accrued and unpaid dividends to but excluding
the redemption date. The terms of the Series A Preferred Stock further provide that, prior to February 15, 2012, First
United Corporation may redeem shares of Series A Preferred Stock only if it has received aggregate gross proceeds of not
less than $7.5 million from one or more qualified equity offerings, and the aggregate redemption price may not exceed the net proceeds
received by the Corporation from such offerings. Notwithstanding the foregoing restriction on redemption, but subject to prior
consultation with the Reserve Bank and subject further to the terms of the TPS Debentures, the Recovery Act permits First
United Corporation to redeem shares of its Series A Preferred Stock held by Treasury at any time (subject to Treasury’s
requirement that a minimum of 25% of the Series A Preferred Stock be redeemed). If First United Corporation
were to redeem shares of its Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to the Recovery Act, then it may also repurchase a pro rata portion
of the Warrant; otherwise, Treasury must liquidate any portion of the Warrant that is not repurchased, at the current market price.
 
Until the earlier of
(i) January 30, 2012 or (ii) the date on which the Treasury disposes of the Series A Preferred Stock, without the consent of the
Treasury, First United Corporation is prohibited from increasing its quarterly cash dividend
paid on common stock above $0.20 per share and from repurchasing or redeeming any shares of its capital stock, and the Trusts are
prohibited from redeeming their trust preferred securities.
 
See Note 12 for information
about First United Corporation’s election to defer quarterly cash dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock.
 

14.Variable Interest Entities

 
As noted in Note 12,
First United Corporation created the Trusts for the purposes of raising regulatory capital through the sale of mandatorily redeemable
preferred capital securities to third party investors and common equity interests to First United Corporation. The Trusts are considered
VIEs, but are not consolidated because First United Corporation is not the primary beneficiary of the Trusts. At December 31, 2011,
the Corporation reported all of the $41.7 million of TPS Debentures issued in connection with these offerings as long-term borrowings
(along with the $5.0 million of stand-alone junior subordinated debentures), and it reported its $1.3 million equity interest in
the Trusts as “Other Assets”.
 

[81]
 


 
In
November 2009, the Bank became a 99.99% limited partner in Liberty Mews Limited Partnership (the “Partnership”),
a Maryland limited partnership formed for the purpose of acquiring, developing and operating low-income housing units in Garrett
County, Maryland. The Partnership was financed with a total of $10.6 million of funding, including
a $6.1 million equity contribution from the Bank as the limited partner. The Partnership used the proceeds from these sources to
purchase the land and construct a 36-unit low income housing rental complex at a total cost of $10.6 million. The total assets
of the Partnership were approximately $10.9 million at December 31, 2011 and $7.9 million at December 31, 2010.
 
Through December 31,
2011, the Bank had made contributions to the Partnership totaling $6.1 million. The project was completed in June 2011, and the
Bank is entitled to $8.4 million in federal investment tax credits over a 10-year period as long as certain qualifying hurdles
are maintained. The Bank will also receive the benefit of tax operating losses from the Partnership to the extent of its capital
contribution. The investment in the Partnership assists the Bank in achieving its community reinvestment initiatives.
 
Because the Partnership
is considered to be a VIE, management performed an analysis to determine whether its involvement with the Partnership would lead
it to determine that it must consolidate the Partnership. In performing its analysis, management evaluated the risks creating the
variability in the Partnership and identified which activities most significantly impact the VIE’s economic performance.
Finally, it examined each of the variable interest holders to determine which, if any, of the holders was the primary beneficiary
based on their power to direct the most significant activities and their obligation to absorb potentially significant losses of
the Partnership.
 
The Bank, as a limited
partner, generally has no voting rights. The Bank is not in any way involved in the daily management of the Partnership and has
no other rights that provide it with the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the Partnership’s
economic performance, which are to develop and operate the housing project in such a manner that complies with specific tax credit
guidelines. As a limited partner, there is no recourse to the Bank by the creditors of the Partnership. The tax credits that result
from the Bank’s investment in the Partnership are generally subject to recapture should the partnership fail to comply with
the applicable government regulations. The Bank has not provided any financial or other support to the Partnership beyond its required
capital contributions and does not anticipate providing such support in the future. Management currently believes that no material
losses are probable as a result of the Bank’s investment in the Partnership.
 
On the basis of management’s
analysis, the general partner is deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the Partnership. Because the Bank is not the primary beneficiary,
the Partnership has not been included in the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements.
 
At December 31, 2011
and December 31, 2010, the Corporation included its total investment in the Partnership in “Other Assets” in its Consolidated
Statements of Financial Condition. As of December 31, 2011, the Corporation’s commitment in the Partnership is fully funded.
The following table presents details of the Bank’s involvement with the Partnership at the dates indicated:
 


  
December 31,  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Investment in LIHTC Partnership 
    
   

Carrying amount on Balance Sheet of: 
    
   

  Investment (Other Assets) 
$5,980  
$6,050 

  Unfunded commitment (Other Liabilities) 
 0  
 966 

Maximum exposure to loss 
 5,980  
 6,050 

 

15.Comprehensive Income/(Loss)

 
Other comprehensive
income (“OCI”) / (loss) consists of the changes in unrealized gains (losses) on investment securities available-for-sale,
cash flow hedges and pension obligations. Total comprehensive income/(loss), which consists of net income / (loss) plus the changes
in other comprehensive income / (loss), was $2.5 million and ($3.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 

[82]
 


 
The following table
presents the activity in accumulated OCI / (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
Investment  
Investment  
   
   
   
  

  
securities–  
securities-  
Cash Flow  
Pension  
   
  

(In thousands) 
with OTTI  
all other  
Hedge  
Plan  
SERP  
Total 

Accumulated OCI / (loss), net: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Balance-January 1, 2010 
$(9,364) 
$(11,404) 
$(36) 
$(5,051) 
$(804) 
$(26,659)

Net gain/(loss) during period 
 (1,461) 
 7,448  
 (460) 
 848  
 463  
 6,838 

Balance-December 31, 2010 
$(10,825) 
$(3,956) 
$(496) 
$(4,203) 
$(341) 
$(19,821)

Net gain/(loss) during period 
 253  
 1,323  
 (120) 
 (2,742) 
 145  
 (1,141)

Balance-December 31, 2011 
$(10,572) 
$(2,633) 
$(616) 
$(6,945) 
$(196) 
$(20,962)

 
The following table
presents the components of OCI for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
Years Ended
December 31 

Components of OCI (in thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Available for sale (AFS) securities with OTTI: 
    
   

Securities with OTTI charges during the period 
$406  
$(10,814)

Less:  OTTI charges recognized in income 
 (19) 
 (8,364)

Unrealized losses on investments with OTTI 
 425  
 (2,450)

Taxes 
 (172) 
 989 

Net unrealized losses on investments with OTTI 
 253  
 (1,461)

  
    
   

Available for sale securities – all other: 
    
   

Unrealized holding gains/(losses) during the period 
 3,499  
 (487)

Less: reclassification adjustment for (losses)/gains recognized in income 
 875  
 (2,162)

 Less:  securities with OTTI charges during the period 
 406  
 (10,814)

Unrealized gains on all other AFS securities 
 2,218  
 12,489 

Taxes 
 (895) 
 (5,041)

Net unrealized gains on all other AFS securities 
 1,323  
 7,448 

  
    
   

Net unrealized gains on AFS securities 
 1,576  
 5,987 

  
    
   

Unrealized losses on cash flow hedges 
 (202) 
 (772)

Taxes 
 82  
 312 

Net unrealized losses on cash flow hedges 
 (120) 
 (460)

  
    
   

Defined benefit plans liability adjustment 
 (4,354) 
 2,198 

Taxes 
 1,757  
 (887)

Net defined benefit plans liability adjustment 
 (2,597) 
 1,311 

Total 
$(1,141) 
$6,838 

 

[83]
 



  

16.Income Taxes
 
The provision for income
taxes consists of the following for the years ended December 31:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Current Tax expense/(benefit): 
    
   

Federal 
$233  
$(4,654)

State 
 670  
 (1,524)

  
$903  
$(6,178)

Deferred tax (benefit)/expense: 
    
   

Federal 
$(1,291) 
$(1,917)

State 
 (247) 
 78 

  
$(1,538) 
$(1,839)

Income tax benefit for the year 
$(635) 
$(8,017)

 
The reconciliation
between the statutory federal income tax rate and effective income tax rate is as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

Federal statutory rate 
 35.0% 
 (35.0)%

Tax-exempt income on securities and loans 
 (30.7) 
 (6.6)

Tax-exempt BOLI income 
 (12.1) 
 (2.0)

State income tax, net of federal tax benefit 
 6.3  
 (5.0)

Tax credits 
 (22.5) 
 3.68 

Other 
 2.7  
 .92 

  
 (21.3)% 
 (44.0)%

 
Deferred income taxes
reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Corporation’s temporary differences
as of December 31 are as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Allowance for loan losses 
$7,862  
$8,935 

Deferred loan fees 
 134  
 164 

Deferred compensation 
 624  
 585 

Federal and State Tax loss carry forwards 
 4,291  
 4,378 

AMT and Other carry forwards 
 985  
 0 

Unrealized loss on investment securities available-for-sale 
 8,935  
 10,002 

Pension/SERP 
 935  
 0 

Other than temporary impairment on investment securities 
 5,965  
 5,948 

Other real estate owned 
 1,836  
 1,149 

Other 
 1,716  
 1,166 

Total deferred tax assets 
 33,283  
 32,327 

Valuation allowance 
 (1,364) 
 (1,212)

Total deferred tax assets less valuation allowance 
 31,919  
 31,115 

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Amortization of goodwill and core deposit intangible 
 (1,507) 
 (1,146)

Pension/SERP 
 0  
 (867)

Depreciation 
 (1,601) 
 (1,926)

Other 
 (100) 
 (776)

Total deferred tax liabilities 
 (3,208) 
 (4,715)

Net deferred tax assets 
$28,711  
$26,400 

 


[84]
 

 
State income tax expense/(benefit)
amounted to $.4 million during 2011 and ($1.4) million during 2010.
 
The Company has Federal
net operating losses (“NOL”) of approximately $7.6 million and a West Virginia NOLs of approximately $5.1 million for
which deferred tax assets of $2.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively have been recorded at December 31, 2011.   The
Federal and West Virginia NOLs were created in 2011 and 2010 and therefore will begin expiring in 2030.
 
The Company has Maryland
net operating loss carry-forwards of $25.4 million for the NOL of the Parent Company for which a deferred tax asset of $1.4 million
has been recorded at December 31, 2011.  There has been and continues to be a full valuation allowance on the Parent Company’s
NOL based on the fact that the Parent company files a separate tax return and has recurring tax losses and will not generate sufficient
taxable income in the future to utilize them before they expire beginning in 2019.
 

17.Employee Benefit Plans
 
First United Corporation
sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”) covering substantially all full-time employees
who qualify as to age and length of service. The benefits are based on years of service and the employees’ compensation during
the last five years of employment. First United Corporation’s funding policy is to make annual contributions in amounts sufficient
to meet the current year’s minimum funding requirements.
 
During 2001,
the Bank established an unfunded supplemental executive retirement plan (the “SERP”) to provide senior management personnel
with supplemental retirement benefits in excess of limits imposed on qualified plans by federal tax
law. Concurrent with the establishment of the SERP, the Bank acquired bank owned life insurance (“BOLI”) policies on
the senior management personnel and officers of the Bank. The benefits resulting from the favorable tax treatment accorded the
earnings on the BOLI policies are intended to provide a source of funds for the future payment of the SERP benefits as well as
other employee benefit costs.
 
The benefit obligation
activity for both the Pension Plan and SERP was calculated using an actuarial measurement date of January 1. Plan assets and the
benefit obligations were calculated using an actuarial measurement date of December 31.
 
Effective April 30,
2010, the Pension Plan was amended, resulting in a “soft freeze”, the effect of which prohibits new entrants into the
plan and ceases crediting of additional years of service, after that date.
 
The following table
summarizes benefit obligation and funded status, plan asset activity, components of net pension cost, and weighted average assumptions
for the Pension Plan and the SERP plans:
 


  
Pension  
SERP 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Change in Benefit Obligation 
    
    
    
   

Obligation at the beginning of the year 
$22,600  
$21,862  
$4,404  
$4,590 

Service cost 
 0  
 0  
 322  
 175 

Interest cost 
 1,430  
 1,308  
 233  
 274 

Change in discount rate assumption 
 3,442  
 0  
 (54) 
 0 

Actuarial (gains)/losses 
 0  
 314  
 (47) 
 (597)

Benefits paid 
 (932) 
 (884) 
 (44) 
 (38)

Obligation at the end of the year 
 26,540  
 22,600  
 4,814  
 4,404 

Change in Plan Assets 
    
    
    
   

Fair value at the beginning of the year 
 29,152  
 26,583  
 0  
 0 

Actual return on plan assets 
 817  
 3,453  
 0  
 0 

Employer contribution 
 0  
 0  
 44  
 38 

Benefits paid 
 (932) 
 (884) 
 (44) 
 (38)

Fair value at the end of the year 
 29,037  
 29,152  
 0  
 0 

Funded Status 
$2,497  
$6,552  
$(4,814) 
$(4,404)

 


[85]
 


 


  
Pension  
SERP 

  
2011  
2010  
2011  
2010 

Components of Net Pension Cost 
    
    
    
   

Service cost 
$0  
$0  
$322  
$175 

Interest cost 
 1,430  
 1,308  
 233  
 274 

Expected return on assets 
 (2,225) 
 (2,031) 
 0  
 0 

Amortization of transition asset 
 (39) 
 (39) 
 0  
 0 

Amortization of recognized loss 
 279  
 345  
 20  
 60 

Amortization of prior service cost 
 12  
 7  
 123  
 126 

Net pension (income)/expense in employee benefits 
$(543) 
$(410) 
$698  
$635 

  
    
    
    
   

Weighted Average Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations: 
    
    
    
   

Discount rate for benefit obligations 
 5.00% 
 6.00% 
 5.25% 
 6.00%

Discount rate for net pension cost 
 6.00% 
 6.00% 
 0  
 0 

Expected long-term return on assets 
 7.75% 
 7.75% 
 0  
 0 

Rate of compensation increase 
 4.00% 
 4.00% 
 3.00% 
 4.00%

 
The accumulated benefit
obligation for the Pension Plan was $25.4 million and $22.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The accumulated
benefit obligation for the SERP was $4.3 million and $4.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
The investment assets
of a defined benefit plan are managed with the goal of providing for retiree distributions while also supporting long-term plan
obligations with a moderate level of portfolio risk. In order to address the variability over time of both risk and return, the
plan investment strategy entails a dynamic approach to asset allocation, providing for normalized targets for major asset classes,
with the ability to tactically adjust within the following specified ranges around those targets.
 




Asset Class
 
Normalized Target
 
Range

Cash
 
5%
 
0% - 20%

Fixed Income
 
40%
 
30% - 50%

Equities
 
55%
 
45% - 65%


 
Decisions regarding
tactical adjustments within the above noted ranges for asset classes are based on a top down review of factors expected to have
material impact on the risk and reward dynamics of the portfolio as a whole. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the
following:
 

·Anticipated domestic and international
economic growth as a whole;

·The position of the economy within its
longer term economic cycle; and

·The expected impact of economic vitality,
cycle positioning, financial market risks, industry/demographic trends and political forces on the various market sectors and investment
styles.
 
With respect to individual
company securities, additional company specific matters are considered, which could include management track record and guidance,
future earnings expectations, current relative price expectations and the impact of identified risks on expected performance, among
others. A core equity position of large cap stocks will be maintained, with more aggressive or volatile sectors meaningfully represented
in the asset mix in pursuit of higher returns.
 
Strategic and specific
investment decisions are guided by an in-house investment committee as well as a number of outside institutional resources that
provide economic, industry and company data and analytics. It is management’s intent to give the Plan’s investment
managers flexibility with respect to investment decisions and their timing within the overall guidelines. However, certain investments
require specific review and approval by management. Management is also informed of anticipated changes in nonproprietary investment
managers, significant modifications of any previously approved investment, or the anticipated use of derivatives to execute investment
strategies.
  
Portfolio risk is managed
in large part by a focus on diversification across multiple levels as well as an emphasis on financial strength. For example, current
investment policies restrict initial investments in debt securities to be rated investment grade at the time of purchase. Also,
with the exception of the highest rated securities (e.g. U.S. Treasury or government-backed agency securities), no
 


[86]
 

 
more
than 10% of the portfolio may be invested in a single entity’s securities. As a result of the previously noted approaches
to controlling portfolio risk, any concentrations of risk would be associated with general systemic risks faced by industry sectors
or the portfolio as a whole.
 
Assets in the Pension
Plan are valued by the Corporation’s accounting system provider who utilizes a third party pricing service. Valuation data
is based on actual market data for stocks and mutual funds (Level 1) and matrix pricing for bonds (Level 2). Cash and cash equivalents
are also considered Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy.	
 
As of December 31,
2011 and 2010, the value of Pension Plan investments was as follows:
 


December 31, 2011 
Assets at  
% of  
Fair Value Hierarchy  

(Dollars in thousands) 
Fair Value  
Portfolio  
Level 1  
Level 2 

Cash and cash equivalents 
$367  
 1.3% 
$367  
$0 

Fixed income securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. Government and Agencies 
 473  
 1.6% 
 0  
 473 

Taxable municipal bonds and notes 
 1,483  
 5.1% 
 0  
 1,483 

Corporate bonds and notes 
 7,031  
 24.2% 
 0  
 7,031 

Preferred stock 
 710  
 2.4% 
 0  
 710 

Fixed income mutual funds 
 2,206  
 7.6% 
 2,206  
 0 

Total fixed income 
 11,903  
 40.9% 
 2,206  
 9,697 

Equities: 
    
    
    
   

Large Cap 
 12,446  
 42.9% 
 12,446  
 0 

Mid Cap 
 2,183  
 7.5% 
 2,183  
 0 

Small Cap 
 1,230  
 4.2% 
 1,230  
 0 

International 
 908  
 3.1% 
 908  
 0 

Total equities 
 16,767  
 57.7% 
 16,767  
 0 

Total market value 
$29,037  
 100.0% 
$19,340  
$9,697 

 


December 31, 2010 
Assets at  
% of  
Fair Value Hierarchy  

(Dollars in thousands) 
Fair Value  
Portfolio  
Level 1  
Level 2 

Cash and cash equivalents 
$973  
 3.3% 
$973  
$0 

Fixed income securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. Government and Agencies 
 416  
 1.4% 
 0  
 416 

Taxable municipal bonds and notes 
 1,275  
 4.4% 
 0  
 1,275 

Corporate bonds and notes 
 6,262  
 21.5% 
 0  
 6,262 

Preferred stock 
 862  
 3.0% 
 0  
 862 

Fixed income mutual funds 
 2,389  
 8.2% 
 2,389  
 0 

Total fixed income 
 11,204  
 38.5% 
 2,389  
 8,815 

Equities: 
    
    
    
   

Large Cap 
 11,119  
 38.1% 
 11,119  
 0 

Mid Cap 
 2,329  
 8.0% 
 2,329  
 0 

Small Cap 
 1,628  
 5.6% 
 1,628  
 0 

International 
 1,899  
 6.5% 
 1,899  
 0 

Total equities 
 16,975  
 58.2% 
 16,975  
 0 

Total market value 
$29,152  
 100.0% 
$20,337  
$8,815 

 


[87]
 

  
The expected rate of
return on Pension Plan assets is based on a combination of the following:
 

·Historical returns of the portfolio of
assets;

·Monte Carlo simulations of expected returns
for a portfolio with strategic asset targets similar to the normalized targets; and

·Market impact adjustments to reflect expected
future investment environment considerations.
 
As of December 31,
2011, the 24-year average return on pension portfolio assets was 8.00%. Monte Carlo simulations modeled against the normalized
asset class targets for the pension portfolio suggest an expected long-term return average of 7.28% with a 95% confidence level.
Actual and simulated returns have been impacted materially by two significant bear markets that covered four since the turn of
the millennium. Some long-term data suggests that U.S. equities may be near an inflection point to improving multi-year performance.
For example, Ibbotson data from 1826 through 2009 indicates that rolling 10-year returns exhibit some cyclicality. These returns
recently touched historical lows and may be turning upward. In addition, the December 2007 recession ended in mid-2009, suggesting
further progress toward economic recovery and positive investment performance. The expected long-term return used for 2011 was
7.75%. Based on the above considerations, it is considered appropriate to maintain the forward expected long-term rates of return
at 7.75%.
 
The Pension Plan did
not hold any shares of First United Corporation common stock at December 31, 2011 or 2010.
 
Estimated cash flows related to expected
future benefit payments from the Pension Plan and SERP are as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
Pension Plan  
SERP 

2012 
$934  
$83 

2013 
 977  
 128 

2014 
 1,018  
 195 

2015 
 1,086  
 189 

2016 
 1,175  
 180 

2017-2021 
 7,396  
 1,815 

 
First United Corporation
does not intend to contribute to the Pension Plan in 2012 based upon its fully funded status and an evaluation of the future benefits
to be provided thereunder. The Bank expects to fund the annual projected benefit payments for the SERP from operations.
 
Amounts included in accumulated other comprehensive
loss as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, net of tax, are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

(In thousands) 
Pension  
SERP  
Pension  
SERP 

Unrecognized net actuarial loss 
$6,977  
$83  
$4,252  
$136 

Unrecognized prior service costs 
 49  
 113  
 56  
 205 

Net transition asset 
 (81) 
 0  
 (105) 
 0 

  
$6,945  
$196  
$4,203  
$341 

 
 

[88]
 


 
Other changes in plan
assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive loss during the year ended December 31, 2011 were as follows:
 


Defined Benefit Pension Plan 
   

Net actuarial loss during the period 
$(4,748)

Amortization of prior service costs 
 12 

Amortization of transition asset 
 (39)

Amortization of unrecognized loss 
 279 

  
 (4,496)

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 
   

Net actuarial gain during the period 
 19 

New prior service cost 
 0 

Amortization of prior service costs 
 123 

  
 142 

Change in Plan Assets and Benefit Costs 
 (4,354)

Tax effect 
 1,757 

Amount included in other comprehensive loss, net of tax 
$(2,597)

 
The estimated costs that will be amortized
from accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic pension cost during the next fiscal year are as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
Pension  
SERP 

Prior service costs 
$12  
$123 

Net transition asset 
 (39) 
 0 

Net actuarial loss 
 628  
 15 

  
$601  
$138 

 

18.401(k) Profit Sharing Plan
 
The First United Corporation
401(k) Profit Sharing Plan (the “401(k) Plan”) is a defined contribution plan that is intended to qualify under section
401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The 401(k) Plan covers substantially all employees of First United Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Eligible employees can elect to contribute to the plan through payroll deductions. The first 1% of contributions of an employee’s
base salary are matched at 100% and the next 5% are matched on a 50% basis by the Corporation. Expense charged to operations for
the 401(k) Plan was $0.4 million in 2011 and 2010.
 

19.Federal Reserve Requirements
 
The Bank is required
to maintain cash reserves with the Reserve Bank based principally on the type and amount of its deposits. During
2011, the daily average amount of these required reserves was approximately $0.6 million.
 

20.Restrictions on Dividend Payments
 
First United Corporation
is subject to an informal agreement with the Reserve Bank which requires it to seek the prior approval of the Reserve Bank
before making any dividend payment or other distribution on its capital securities or other securities that qualify as Tier
1 capital.  On November 15, 2010, First United Corporation, at the request of the Reserve Bank, deferred regular quarterly
cash dividend payments on its Series A Preferred Stock. Pursuant to the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock, the deferral prohibits
First United Corporation from paying dividends or other distributions on its common stock.  On December 15, 2010, First United
Corporation, at the request of the Reserve Bank, elected to defer regular quarterly interest payments on its TPS Debentures, beginning
with the payments that are due in March 2011.  This deferral likewise prohibits First United Corporation from paying any dividends
or distributions on its capital securities. As of December 31, 2011, First United Corporation remained in deferral.  
  

21.Restrictions on Subsidiary
Dividends, Loans or Advances
 
Federal and state banking
regulations place certain restrictions on the amount of dividends paid and loans or advances made by the Bank to First United Corporation.
The total amount of dividends that may be paid at any date is generally limited to the retained earnings
of the Bank, and loans or advances are limited to 10 percent of the Bank’s capital stock and surplus on a secured basis.
In addition, dividends paid by the Bank to First United Corporation would be prohibited if the effect thereof would cause the
 


[89]
 

 
Bank’s
capital to be reduced below applicable minimum capital requirements. At December 31, 2011, the Bank could have paid additional
dividends of $9.4 million to First United Corporation within these limits. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank is subject
to an informal agreement with the FDIC and the Maryland Commissioner of Financial Regulation which requires the Bank to seek the
prior approval of these regulators before making any dividend payment to First United Corporation.
 

22.Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
 
We are at times, and
in the ordinary course of business, subject to legal actions. Management believes that losses, if any, resulting from current legal
actions will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
 
Loan commitments are
made to accommodate the financial needs of our customers. Loan commitments have credit risk essentially the same as that
involved in extending loans to customers and are subject to normal credit policies. Commitments to extend credit generally
have fixed expiration dates, may require payment of a fee, and contain cancellation clauses in the event of an adverse change in
the customer’s credit quality.
 
We
do not issue any guarantees that would require liability recognition or disclosure other than the standby letters of credit issued
by the Bank.  Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee the performance of a customer
to a third party to support contractual obligations and to ensure
job performance.  Generally, the Bank’s letters of credit are issued with expiration dates
within one year.  Historically, most letters of credit expire unfunded, and therefore, cash requirements are substantially
less than the total commitment. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially
the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers.  The Bank generally holds collateral and/or personal
guarantees supporting letters of credit.  Management believes that the proceeds obtained through a liquidation of collateral
and the enforcement of guarantees would be sufficient to cover the potential amount of future payment required by the letters of
credit.  Management does not believe that the amount of the liability associated with guarantees under standby letters of
credit outstanding at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 is material.
 
The following table
is a summary of commitments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Loan commitments 
$86,047  
$88,076 

Commercial letters of credit 
 1,537  
 4,855 

Total 
$87,584  
$92,931 

 

23.Fair Value of Financial
Instruments
 
The
Corporation complies with the guidance of ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair
value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements required under other
accounting pronouncements. The Corporation also follows the guidance on matters relating to all financial
instruments found in ASC Subtopic 825-10, Financial Instruments – Overall. 
 
Fair value is defined
as the price to sell an asset or to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing market participants as of the
measurement date. Fair value is best determined by values quoted through active trading markets. Active trading markets are characterized
by numerous transactions of similar financial instruments between willing buyers and willing sellers. Because no active trading
market exists for various types of financial instruments, many of the fair values disclosed were derived using present value discounted
cash flows or other valuation techniques described below. As a result, the Corporation’s ability to actually realize these
derived values cannot be assumed.
 
The
Corporation measures fair values based on the fair value hierarchy established in ASC Paragraph 820-10-35-37. The hierarchy gives
the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and
the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair
value under the hierarchy are as follows:
 
Level 1:  Unadjusted quoted
prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets and liabilities. This level
is the most reliable source of valuation.
  
Level 2: Quoted prices
that are not active, or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset
or liability. Level 2 inputs include inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability (for example,
interest rates and yield curves at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities, prepayment speeds, loss
 


[90]
 

 
severities, credit risks, and
default rates). It also includes inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation
or other means (market-corroborated inputs). Several sources are utilized for valuing these assets, including a contracted valuation
service, Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) evaluations and pricing services, and other valuation matrices.
 
Level 3: Prices or valuation
techniques that require inputs that are both significant to the valuation assumptions and not readily observable in the market
(i.e. supported with little or no market activity). Level 3 instruments are valued based on the best available data, some of which
is internally developed, and consider risk premiums that a market participant would require.
 
The level established
within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Transfers
in and out of Level 1, 2 or 3 are recorded at fair value at the beginning of the reporting period.
 
Management believes
that the Corporation’s valuation techniques are appropriate and consistent with the techniques
used by other market participants. However, the use of different methodologies and assumptions could result in a different estimate
of fair values at the reporting date. The following valuation techniques were used to measure
the fair value of assets in the table below which are measured on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2011.
 
Investments
– The investment portfolio
is classified and accounted for based on the guidance of ASC Topic 320, Investments – Debt and Equity Securities.
 
The fair value of investments
available-for-sale is determined using a market approach. As of December 31, 2011, the U.S. Government agencies and treasuries,
residential mortgage-backed securities, private label residential mortgage-backed securities, and municipal bonds segments are
classified as Level 2 within the valuation hierarchy. Their fair values were determined based upon market-corroborated inputs and
valuation matrices, which were obtained through third party data service providers or securities brokers through which we have
historically transacted both purchases and sales of investment securities.
 
The CDO segment, which
consists of pooled trust preferred securities issued by banks, thrifts and insurance companies, is classified as Level 3 within
the valuation hierarchy. At December 31, 2011, the Bank owned 18 pooled trust preferred securities with an amortized cost of $36.4
million and a fair value of $9.4 million. The market for these securities at December 31, 2011 is not active and markets for similar
securities are also not active. The inactivity was evidenced first by a significant widening of the bid-ask spread in the brokered
markets in which these securities trade and then by a significant decrease in the volume of trades relative to historical levels.
The new issue market is also inactive, as few CDOs have been issued since 2007. There are currently very few market participants
who are willing to transact for these securities. The market values for these securities or any securities, other than those issued
or guaranteed by the Treasury, are very depressed relative to historical levels. Therefore, in the current market, a low market
price for a particular bond may only provide evidence of stress in the credit markets in general rather than being an indicator
of credit problems with a particular issue. Given the conditions in the current debt markets and the absence of observable transactions
in the secondary and new issue markets, management has determined that (i) the few observable transactions and market quotations
that are available are not reliable for the purpose of obtaining fair value at December 31, 2011, (ii) an income valuation approach
technique (i.e. present value) that maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs
will be equally or more representative of fair value than a market approach, and (iii) the CDO segment is appropriately classified
within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy because management determined that significant adjustments were required to determine
fair value at the measurement date.
 
Management utilizes
an independent third party to prepare both the evaluations of other-than-temporary impairment as well as the fair value determinations
for its CDO portfolio. Management does not believe that there were any material differences in the impairment evaluations and pricing
between December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 
The approach of the
third party to determine fair value involves several steps, including detailed credit and structural evaluation of each piece of
collateral in each bond, default, recovery and prepayment/amortization probabilities for each piece of collateral in the bond,
and discounted cash flow modeling. The discount rate methodology used by the third party combines a baseline current market yield
for comparable corporate and structured credit products with adjustments based on evaluations of the differences found in structure
and risks associated with actual and projected credit performance of each CDO being valued. Currently, the only active and liquid
trading market that exists is for stand-alone trust preferred securities. Therefore, adjustments to the baseline discount rate
are also made to reflect the additional leverage found in structured instruments.
  
Derivative financial
instruments – The Corporation’s open derivative positions are interest
rate swaps that are classified as Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Open derivative positions are valued using externally
developed pricing models based on observable market inputs provided by a third party and validated by management. The Corporation
has considered counterparty
 


[91]
 

 
credit
risk in the valuation of its interest rate swap assets. Management does not believe that there is a significant concentration
with the counterparty.
 
Impaired loans
– Loans included in the table below are those that are considered impaired with a specific allocation based upon the guidance
of the loan impairment subsection of the Receivables Topic, ASC Section 310-10-35, under which the Corporation has measured
impairment generally based on the fair value of the loan’s collateral. Fair value consists of the loan balance less its valuation
allowance and is generally determined based on independent third-party appraisals of the collateral or discounted cash flows based
upon the expected proceeds. These assets are included as Level 3 fair values based upon the lowest level of input that is significant
to the fair value measurements.
 
Other real estate
owned – Fair value of other real estate owned was based on independent third-party appraisals of the properties.
These values were determined based on the sales prices of similar properties in the approximate geographic area. These assets are
included as Level 3 fair values based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurements.
 
For assets measured
at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis, the fair value measurements by level within the fair value hierarchy used
at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 



  
   
Fair Value Measurements at 

  
   
December 31, 2011 Using 

  
   
(In Thousands) 

  
   
Quoted  
   
  

  
   
Prices in  
   
  

  
   
Active  
Significant  
  

  
Assets  
Markets for  
Other  
Significant 

  
Measured at  
Identical  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Fair Value  
Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

Description 
12/31/2011  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3) 

Recurring: 
    
    
    
   

Investment securities available-for-sale: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$25,580  
  
$25,580  
 

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
$130,402  
    
$130,402  
   

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
$10,778  
    
$10,778  
   

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
$68,816  
    
$68,816  
   

Collateralized debt obligations 
$9,447  
    
    
$9,447 

Financial Derivative 
$(1,034) 
    
    
$(1,034)

Non-recurring: 
    
    
    
   

Impaired loans 
$30,320  
    
    
$30,320 

Other real estate owned 
$3,449  
    
    
$3,449 





 


[92]
 

  





  
   
Fair Value Measurements at 

  
   
December 31, 2010 Using 

  
   
(In Thousands) 

  
   
Quoted  
   
  

  
   
Prices in  
   
  

  
   
Active  
   
  

  
Assets  
Markets for  
Other  
Significant 

  
Measured at  
Identical  
Observable  
Unobservable 

  
Fair Value  
Assets  
Inputs  
Inputs 

Description 
12/31/2010  
(Level 1)  
(Level 2)  
(Level 3) 

Recurring: 
    
    
    
   

Investment securities available-for-sale: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government agencies 
$24,850  
   
$24,850  
  

Residential mortgage-backed agencies 
$99,613  
    
$99,613  
  

Collateralized mortgage obligations 
$662  
    
$662  
  

Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
$94,724  
    
$94,724  
  

Collateralized debt obligations 
$9,838  
    
   
$9,838 

Financial Derivative 
$(832) 
    
   
$(832)

Non-recurring: 
    
    
   
   

Impaired loans 
$18,027  
    
   
$18,027 

Other real estate owned 
$2,788  
    
   
$2,788 


 
There were no transfers of assets
between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy for the years ended December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010.
 
The following tables show a reconciliation
of the beginning and ending balances for fair valued assets measured using Level 3 significant unobservable inputs for the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 


  
Fair Value Measurements Using Significant 

  
Unobservable Inputs 

  
(Level 3) 

  
(In Thousands) 

  
Investment  
   
  

  
Securities  
Investment  
Cash Flow 

  
Available for Sale  
Securities – Trading  
Hedge 

Beginning balance January 1, 2011 
$9,838  
$0  
$(832)

Total gains/(losses) realized/unrealized: 
    
    
   

Included in earnings 
 (19) 
 0  
 0 

Included in other comprehensive loss 
 (372) 
 0  
 (202)

Ending balance December 31, 2011 
$9,447  
$0  
$(1,034)

  
    
    
   

The amount of total gains or losses for the period included in earnings attributable to the change in realized/unrealized gains or losses related to assets still held at the reporting date 
$(19) 
$0  
$0 

 


[93]
 

 
 



  
Fair Value Measurements Using Significant 

  
Unobservable Inputs 

  
(Level 3) 

  
(In Thousands) 

  
Investment  
   
  

  
Securities  
Investment  
Cash Flow 

  
Available for Sale  
Securities – Trading  
Hedge 

Beginning balance January 1, 2010 
$12,448  
$0  
$(60)

Total gains/(losses) realized/unrealized: 
    
    
   

Included in earnings 
 (8,364) 
 1  
 0 

Included in other comprehensive loss 
 5,956  
 0  
 (772)

Sales 
 (202) 
 (1) 
 0 

Ending balance December 31, 2010 
$9,838  
$0  
$(832)

  
    
    
   

The amount of total gains or losses for the period included in earnings attributable to the change in realized/unrealized gains or losses related to assets still held at the reporting date 
$(8,364) 
$0  
$0 


 
Gains and losses (realized
and unrealized) included in earnings for the periods above are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in other operating
income.
 
The fair values disclosed
may vary significantly between institutions based on the estimates and assumptions used in the various valuation
methodologies. The derived fair values are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and significant judgment. Therefore,
they cannot be determined with precision. Changes in the assumptions could significantly impact the derived estimates of fair value.
Disclosure of non-financial assets such as buildings as well as certain financial instruments such as leases is not required. Accordingly,
the aggregate fair values presented do not represent the underlying value of the Corporation.
 
We use the following
methods and assumptions in estimating fair value disclosures for financial instruments:
 
Cash and due
from banks: The carrying amounts as reported in the statement of financial condition for cash and due from banks approximate
their fair values.
 
Interest bearing
deposits in banks: The carrying amount of interest bearing deposits approximates their fair values.
 
Restricted investment
in Bank stock: The carrying value of stock issued by the FHLB of Atlanta, ACBB and CBB approximates fair value based on
the redemption provisions of the stock.
 
Loans (excluding
impaired loans with specific loss allowances): For variable-rate loans that reprice frequently or “in one year or
less”, and with no significant change in credit risk, fair values are based on carrying values. Fair values for fixed-rate
loans that do not reprice frequently are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies current market interest
rates being offered on the various loan products.
 
Deposits:
The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest checking, savings, and certain types of money market
accounts, etc.) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amounts).
Fair values for fixed-rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest
rates currently being offered on the various certificates of deposit to the cash flow stream.
 
Borrowed
funds: The fair value of the Bank’s FHLB borrowings and First United Corporation’s TPS Debentures is calculated
based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows, using rates currently existing for borrowings with
similar remaining maturities. The carrying amounts of federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase
approximate their fair values.
  
Accrued interest:
The carrying amount of accrued interest receivable and payable approximates their fair values.
 
Off-balance-sheet
financial instruments: In the normal course of business, the Bank makes commitments to extend credit and issues standby
letters of credit. The Bank expects most of these commitments to expire without being drawn upon; therefore, the
 


[94]
 

 
commitment
amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Due to the uncertainty of cash flows and difficulty in the predicting
the timing of such cash flows, fair values were not estimated for these instruments.
 
The following table
presents fair value information about financial instruments, whether or not recognized in the statement
of financial condition, for which it is practicable to estimate that value. The actual carrying amounts and estimated fair
values of the Corporation’s financial instruments that are included in the statement of financial condition
are as follows:
 



  
2011  
2010 

(In thousands) 
Carrying Amount  
Fair Value  
Carrying Amount  
Fair Value 

Financial Assets: 
    
    
    
   

Cash and due from banks 
$52,049  
$52,049  
$184,830  
$184,830 

Interest bearing deposits in banks 
 13,058  
 13,058  
 114,483  
 114,483 

Investment securities-AFS 
 245,023  
 245,023  
 229,687  
 229,687 

Restricted Bank stock 
 10,726  
 10,726  
 12,449  
 12,449 

Loans, net 
 919,214  
 918,156  
 987,615  
 969,178 

Accrued interest receivable 
 5,058  
 5,058  
 4,632  
 4,632 

  
    
    
    
   

Financial Liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Deposits 
 1,027,784  
 994,165  
 1,301,646  
 1,252,661 

Borrowed funds 
 243,912  
 251,850  
 282,239  
 288,052 

Accrued interest payable 
 3,512  
 3,512  
 2,291  
 2,291 

Financial derivative 
 1,034  
 1,034  
 832  
 832 

Off balance sheet financial instruments 
 0  
 0  
 0  
 0 



 

24.Derivative Financial Instruments
 
As a part of managing
interest rate risk, the Bank entered into interest rate swap agreements to modify the re-pricing characteristics of certain interest-bearing
liabilities. The Bank has designated its interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges under the guidance of ASC Subtopic 815-30,
Derivatives and Hedging – Cash Flow Hedges. Cash flow hedges have the effective portion of changes in the fair value
of the derivative, net of taxes, recorded in net accumulated other comprehensive income.
 
In July 2009, the Bank
entered into three interest rate swap contracts totaling $20.0 million notional amount, hedging future cash flows associated with
floating rate trust preferred debt. The fair value of the interest rate swap contracts was ($1.0) million and ($.8) million at
December 31, 2011and December 31, 2010, respectively, and was reported in Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial
Condition. Cash in the amount of $1.4 million was posted as collateral as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 
For the year ended
December 31, 2011, the Bank recorded a decrease in the value of the derivatives of $202 thousand and the related deferred tax benefit
of $82 thousand in net accumulated other comprehensive loss to reflect the effective portion of cash flow hedges. ASC Subtopic
815-30 requires this amount to be reclassified to earnings if the hedge becomes ineffective or is terminated. There was no hedge
ineffectiveness recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Bank does not expect any losses relating to these hedges to
be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
 
Interest rate swap
agreements are entered into with counterparties that meet established credit standards and we believe that the credit risk inherent
in these contracts is not significant as of December 31, 2011. 
 

[95]
 



 
The table below discloses
the impact of derivative financial instruments on the Corporation’s Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and year ended December 31, 2010.
  



Derivative in Cash Flow Hedging  Relationships 
   
   
  

(In thousands) 
Amount of gain or (loss) recognized in OCI on derivative  (effective portion)  
Amount of gain or (loss) reclassified
    from accumulated OCI into income  (effective portion) (1)  
Amount of gain or (loss) recognized in
    income on derivative (ineffective portion and amount excluded from effectiveness testing)
(2) 

Interest rate contracts: 
    
    
   

  
    
    
   

December 31, 2011 
$(202) 
$0  
$0 

December 31, 2010 
$(496) 
 0  
 0 


 
Notes:

(1)Reported as interest expense

(2)Reported as other income
 

25.Parent Company Only Financial Information
 
Condensed Statements of Financial Condition
 


  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Assets 
    
   

Cash 
$1,943  
$1,556 

Investment in bank subsidiary 
 141,651  
 137,143 

Investment in non-bank subsidiaries 
 4,129  
 4,285 

Other assets 
 2,392  
 2,265 

Total Assets 
$150,115  
$145,249 

  
    
   

Liabilities and Shareholder’s Equity 
    
   

Accrued interest and other liabilities 
$4,807  
$2,504 

Dividends payable 
 1,922  
 375 

Junior subordinated debt 
 46,730  
 46,730 

Shareholder’s equity 
 96,656  
 95,640 

Total Liabilities and Shareholder’s Equity 
$150,115  
$145,249 

 

[96]
 


 
Condensed Statements of Operations
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Income: 
    
   

Dividend income from bank subsidiary 
$0  
$0 

Other income 
 101  
 421 

Total Income 
 101  
 421 

  
    
   

Expenses: 
    
   

Interest expense 
 2,680  
 2,645 

Other expenses 
 164  
 354 

Total Expenses 
 2,844  
 2,999 

  
    
   

Loss before income taxes and equity in undistributed net loss of subsidiaries 
 (2,743) 
 (2,578)

Applicable income taxes 
 0  
 0 

Net loss before equity in undistributed net loss of subsidiaries 
 (2,743) 
 (2,578)

  
    
   

Equity in undistributed net income/(loss)of subsidiaries: 
    
   

Bank 
 6,462  
 (7,780)

Non-bank 
 (93) 
 161 

Net Income/(Loss) 
$3,626  
$(10,197)

 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Operating Activities 
    
   

Net Income/(Loss) 
$3,626  
$(10,197)

Adjustments to reconcile net income/(loss) to net cash provided by/(used in)operating activities: 
    
   

Equity in undistributed net income of subsidiaries 
 (6,369) 
 7,619 

Increase in other assets 
 (127) 
 (493)

Increase in accrued interest payable and other liabilities 
 2,184  
 1,067 

Stock Compensation 
 78  
 70 

Net cash used in operating activities 
 (608) 
 (1,934)

  
    
   

Investing Activities 
    
   

Net investment in subsidiaries 
 995  
 (6,716)

Net cash provided by/(used in) investing activities 
 995  
 (6,716)

  
    
   

Financing Activities 
    
   

Dividends – common stock 
 0  
 (800)

Dividends – preferred stock paid 
 0  
 (1,125)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
 0  
 48 

Proceeds from long-term borrowings 
 0  
 3,609 

Net cash provided by financing activities 
 0  
 1,732 

Increase/(Decrease)in cash and cash equivalents 
 387  
 (6,918)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 1,556  
 8,474 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$1,943  
$1,556 

 


[97]
 

 

26.Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
 
The following is a
summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
 


2011 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 
First Quarter  
Second Quarter  
Third Quarter  
Fourth Quarter 

Interest income 
$15,569  
$15,121  
$14,483  
$14,323 

Interest expense 
 6,158  
 5,573  
 5,058  
 4,417 

Net interest income 
 9,411  
 9,548  
 9,425  
 9,906 

Provision for loan losses 
 1,344  
 3,261  
 1,334  
 3,218 

Other income 
 3,821  
 3,818  
 3,618  
 3,858 

Impairment Losses on securities 
 (19) 
 0  
 0  
 0 

Gains/(Losses) – other 
 101  
 567  
 (793) 
 745 

Other expenses 
 10,913  
 10,090  
 10,151  
 10,704 

Income before income taxes 
 1,057  
 582  
 765  
 587 

Applicable income tax expense/(benefit) 
 100  
 (551) 
 79  
 (263)

Net income 
$957  
$1,133  
$686  
$850 

Accumulated preferred stock dividends and discount accretion 
 (394) 
 (400) 
 (404) 
 (411)

Net Income Available to Common Shareholders 
$563  
$733  
$282  
$439 

Basic and diluted net income per common share 
$.09  
$.12  
$.05  
$.07 

 
 


2010 (In thousands, except per share amounts) 
First Quarter  
Second Quarter  
Third Quarter  
Fourth Quarter 

Interest income 
$19,521  
$18,273  
$17,253  
$15,700 

Interest expense 
 7,528  
 7,436  
 7,352  
 6,848 

Net interest income 
 11,993  
 10,837  
 9,901  
 8,852 

Provision for loan losses 
 3,555  
 3,631  
 3,467  
 5,073 

Other income 
 3,851  
 3,863  
 3,893  
 3,749 

Impairment Losses on securities 
 (7,514) 
 (551) 
 (210) 
 (89)

Losses - other 
 (2,088) 
 (573) 
 (659) 
 (2,693)

Other expenses 
 11,413  
 11,312  
 11,303  
 11,021 

Loss before income taxes 
 (8,726) 
 (1,367) 
 (1,845) 
 (6,276)

Applicable income tax benefit 
 (3,615) 
 (451) 
 (2,167) 
 (1,784)

Net (loss)/income 
$(5,111) 
$(916) 
$322  
$(4,492)

Accumulated preferred stock dividends and discount accretion 
 (390) 
 (389) 
 (390) 
 (390)

Net Loss Attributable to Common Shareholders 
$(5,501) 
$(1,305) 
$(68) 
$(4,882)

Basic and diluted net loss per common share 
$(.90) 
$(.21) 
$(.01) 
$(.79)

 


[98]
 

 
 

ITEM 9.CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

 
None.
 

ITEM 9A.CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

 
First United Corporation
maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in First United
Corporation’s reports filed under the Exchange Act with the SEC, such as this annual report, is
recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in those rules and forms, and that such information
is accumulated and communicated to First United Corporation’s management, including the
principal executive Officer (“PEO”) and the principal accounting officer (“PAO”), as appropriate, to allow
for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system
must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur
because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion
of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon
certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving
its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
An
evaluation of the effectiveness of these disclosure controls as of December 31, 2011 was carried out under the supervision and
with the participation of First United Corporation’s management, including the PEO and
the PAO. Based on that evaluation, the Corporation’s management, including the PEO and the PAO, has concluded that First
United Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are, in fact, effective at the reasonable
assurance level.
 
During the fourth quarter
of 2011, there was no change in First United Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, First United Corporation’s
internal control over financial reporting.
 
As required by Section
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management has performed an evaluation and testing of First United Corporation’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. Management’s report on First
United Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is included on the following page.
First United Corporation is a “smaller reporting company” as defined by Exchange
Act Rule 12b-2 and, accordingly, its independent registered public accounting firm is not required to attest to the foregoing management
report. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors nevertheless requested an attestation report from First United Corporation’s
independent registered public accounting firm, which follows management’s report.
 


[99]
 


 
Management’s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
First United Corporation
 
First United Corporation’s
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. This internal control
system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors as to the reliability of First
United Corporation’s financial reporting and the preparation and presentation of financial statements
for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, as well as to safeguard
assets from unauthorized use or disposition.
 
An internal control
system, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide
only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation and may not prevent or detect misstatements
in the financial statements or the unauthorized use or disposition of First United Corporation’s
assets. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with policies and procedures
may deteriorate.
 
Management assessed
the effectiveness of First United Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based
on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment and on the foregoing criteria, management has concluded
that, as of December 31, 2011, First United Corporation’s internal control over financial
reporting is effective.
 


Dated:  March 14, 2012
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

/s/ William B. Grant
 
/s/ Carissa L. Rodeheaver
 

William B. Grant, Esq., CFP
 
Carissa L. Rodeheaver, CPA, CFP
 

Chairman of the Board and
 
Executive Vice President and
 

Chief Executive Officer
 
Chief Financial Officer
 

 


[100]
 

  

ITEM 9B.OTHER INFORMATION

 
None.
 
PART III
 

ITEM 10.DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

 
First United Corporation
has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting
officer, or controller, or persons performing similar functions, a Code of Ethics applicable to all employees, and a Code of Ethics
applicable to members of the Board of Directors. Copies of First United Corporation’s Codes of Ethics are available free
of charge upon request to Mr. Jason B. Rush, Chief Risk and Operations Officer, First United Corporation, c/o First United Bank
& Trust, P.O. Box 9, Oakland, MD 21550-0009. Copies are also available on First United Corporation’s website at www.mybank4.com
in the “My Community” tab under “Investors – Corporate Governance”.
 
All other information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of First United Corporation’s definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A:
 

·Election of Directors (Proposal 1);

·Qualifications of Director Nominees and Current Directors;

·Executive Officers;

·Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership and Reporting Compliance; and

·Corporate Governance Matters (under Audit Committee).
 

ITEM 11.EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

 
The information required
by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of First United Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement
for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A entitled
“Director Compensation” and “Remuneration of Executive Officers”.
 

[101]
 


 

ITEM 12.SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

 
At the 2007 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, First United Corporation’s shareholders approved the First United Corporation Omnibus Equity Compensation
Plan (the “Omnibus Plan”), which authorizes the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, stock
units, performance units, dividend equivalents, and other stock-based awards. The following table contains information about the
Omnibus Plan as of December 31, 2011:
 


Plan Category 
Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants, and rights (a)  
Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants, and rights (b)  
Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (c) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
 0  
 N/A  
 146,721 (1) 

  
    
    
   

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
 0  
 N/A  
 N/A 

Total 
 0  
 N/A  
 146,721 

Note:

(1)In addition to stock options and stock appreciation rights, the Omnibus Plan permits the grant
of stock awards, stock units, performance units, dividend equivalents, and other stock-based awards. Subject to the anti-dilution
provisions of the Omnibus Plan, the maximum number of shares for which awards may be granted to any one participant in any calendar
year is 20,000, without regard to whether an award is paid in cash or shares.
 
All other information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section of First United Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A entitled “Beneficial
Ownership of Common Stock by Principal Shareholders and Management”.
 

ITEM 13.CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR
INDEPENDENCE

 
The information required
by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the following sections of First United Corporation’s definitive Proxy
Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation
14A entitled “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” and “Corporate Governance Matters” (under
“Director Independence”).
 

ITEM 14.PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
FEES AND SERVICES

 
The information required
by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section of First United Corporation’s definitive Proxy Statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A entitled
“Audit Fees and Services”.
 

[102]
 


 
PART IV
 

ITEM 15.EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

 
(a)(1), (2) and (c)
Financial Statements.
 
Report of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Statements
of Financial Condition as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
Consolidated Statements
of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Consolidated Statements
of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Consolidated Statements
of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
 
(a)(3) and (b) Exhibits.
 
The exhibits filed
or furnished with this annual report are listed on the Exhibit Index that follows the signatures to this annual report, which list
is incorporated herein by reference.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
FIRST UNITED CORPORATION
 

 
 
 

Dated:  March 14, 2012
By:
/s/ William B. Grant
 

 
 
William B. Grant, Esq., CFP
 

 
 
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer

 
 
and President (Principal Executive Officer)
 

 
Pursuant to the requirements
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant
and in the capacities indicated.
 


/s/ William B. Grant
 
/s/ David J. Beachy
 

William B. Grant - Director, Chief Executive Officer,
 
David J. Beachy - Director
 

and President (Principal Executive Officer
 
March 14, 2012
 

March 14, 2012
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

/s/ M. Kathryn Burkey
 
/s/ Paul Cox, Jr.
 

M. Kathryn Burkey - Director
 
Paul Cox, Jr. - Director
 

March 14, 2012
 
March 14,  2012
 

 
 
 
 

/s/ Robert W. Kurtz
 
/s/ John W. McCullough
 

Robert W. Kurtz – Director
 
John W. McCullough – Director
 

March 14, 2012
 
March 14, 2012
 

 
 
 
 

/s/ Elaine L. McDonald
 
/s/ Donald E. Moran
 

Elaine L. McDonald - Director
 
Donald E. Moran – Director
 

March 14, 2012
 
March 14, 2012
 

 
 
 
 

/s/ Carissa L. Rodeheaver
 
/s/ Gary R. Ruddell
 

(Carissa L. Rodeheaver) EVP & Chief Financial Officer-
Gary R. Ruddell - Director
 

(Principal Accounting Officer)
 
March 14, 2012
 

March 14, 2012
 
 
 

 


[103]
 


 


/s/ I. Robert Rudy
 
/s/ Richard G. Stanton
 

I. Robert Rudy - Director
 
Richard G. Stanton – Director
 

March 14, 2012
 
March 14, 2012
 

 
 
 
 

/s/ Robert G. Stuck
 
/s/ H. Andrew Walls III
 

Robert G. Stuck - Director
 
H. Andrew  Walls III – Director
 

March 14, 2012
 
March 14, 2012
 

 


[104]
 

 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 


Exhibit
Description

 
 

3.1(i)
Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of First United Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1998)

 
 

3.2(i)
Amended and Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2(i) of First United Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)

 
 

3.2(ii)
First Amendment to Amended and Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2(ii) of First United Corporation’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007)

 
 

3.2(iii)
Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Bylaws (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 9, 2009)

 
 

4.1
Letter Agreement, including the related Securities Purchase Agreement – Standard Terms, dated January 30, 2009 by and between First United Corporation and the U.S. Department of Treasury (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of First United Corporation’s Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2009)

 
 

4.2
Certificate of Notice, including the Certificate of Designations incorporated therein, relating to the Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (incorporated by reference Exhibit 4.1 of First United Corporation’s Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2009)

 
 

4.3
Sample Stock Certificate for Series A Preferred Stock for the Series A Preferred Stock (incorporated by reference Exhibit 4.3 of First United Corporation’s Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2009)

 
 

4.4
Common Stock Purchase Warrant dated January 30, 2009 issued to the U.S. Department of Treasury (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of First United Corporation’s Form 8-K filed on February 2, 2009)

 
 

4.5
Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, dated as of December 30, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2009)

 
 

4.6
Indenture, dated as of December 30, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2009)

 
 

4.7
Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement, dated as of December 30, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2009)

 
 

4.8
Form of Preferred Security Certificate of First United Statutory Trust III (included as Exhibit C of Exhibit 4.5)

 
 

4.9
Form of Common Security Certificate of First United Statutory Trust III (included as Exhibit B of Exhibit 4.5)

 
 

4.10
Form of Junior Subordinated Debenture of First United Corporation (included as Exhibit A of Exhibit 4.6)

 
 

10.1
First United Bank & Trust Amended and Restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 21, 2007)

 
 

10.2
Second Amended and Restated Participation Agreement, dated as of August 12, 2011, under the SERP between First United Bank & Trust and William B. Grant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011)

 
 

10.3
Form of Second Amended and Restated Participation Agreement, dated as of August 12, 2011, under the SERP between First United Bank & Trust and executive officers other than William B. Grant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of First United Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011)

 
 

10.4
Form of Endorsement Split Dollar Agreement between the Bank and each of William B. Grant, Robert W. Kurtz, Jeannette R. Fitzwater, Phillip D. Frantz, Eugene D. Helbig, Jr., Steven M. Lantz, Robin M. Murray, Carissa L. Rodeheaver, and Frederick A. Thayer, IV (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of First United Corporation’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2003)

 
 

10.5
Amended and Restated First United Corporation Executive and Director Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 24, 2008)

 
 

10.6
Amended and Restated First United Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2008)

 
 

10.7
Form of Change in Control Severance Plan Agreement with executive officers other than William B. Grant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on 

 

[105]
 


 


 
February 21, 2007)

 
 

10.8
First United Corporation Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix B to First United Corporation’s 2007 definitive proxy statement filed on March 23, 2007)

 
 

10.9
First United Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2008)

 
 

10.10
Restricted Stock Agreement for William B. Grant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2008)

 
 

10.11
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Executive Officers other than the Chief Executive Officer (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2008)

 
 

10.12
First United Corporation Executive Pay for Performance Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 23, 2008)

 
 

10.13
Consulting Agreement, dated as of December 7, 2009, among First United Corporation, First United Bank & Trust and Robert W. Kurtz (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of First United Corporation’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 7, 2009)

 
 

21
Subsidiaries of First United Corporation (incorporated by reference to the identification of subsidiaries contained in Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “General”)

 
 

23.1
Consent of ParenteBeard LLC, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (filed herewith)

 
 

31.1
Certifications of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (filed herewith)

 
 

31.2
Certifications of Principal Accounting Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (filed herewith)

 
 

32.1
Certifications pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (furnished herewith)

 
 

99.1
Certifications of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 31 C.F.R. § 30.15 (filed herewith)

 
 

99.2
Certifications of Principal Accounting Officer pursuant to 31 C.F.R. § 30.15 (filed herewith)

 
 

101.INS
XBRL Instance Document (furnished herewith)

 
 

101.SCH
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema (furnished herewith)

 
 

101.CAL
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase (furnished herewith)

 
 

101.DEF
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase (furnished herewith)

 
 

101.LAB
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase (furnished herewith)

 
 

101.PRE
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase (furnished herewith)

 


[106]
 

 






