
10-K
1
cyber120248_10k.htm
FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011






Table of Contents
 
SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 10-K
 

 
x ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 for the Year Ended December 31, 2011.
 
o TRANSITION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 for the transition period from ______ to
______.
 
COMMISSION FILE NO. (0-16577)

 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 


Minnesota
41-1472057


(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 
 


5900 Golden Hills Drive
MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA
55416

(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)

 
(763) 542-5000
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area
code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Exchange Act: Title of each class: Common Stock, no par value
Name of Exchange: NASDAQ Stock Market LLC
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of
the Exchange Act: None 
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
YES  o	NO x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
YES  o	NO x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
YES  x	NO o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically
and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).
YES  x	NO o
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K. x 
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company


 Large accelerated
    filer   o
 
         
    Accelerated filer   o
 
Non-accelerated
    filer   o
 
Smaller
    Reporting Company   x

 
Indicate by checkmark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).
YES  o
NO  x
 
State the aggregate market value of the voting
and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold,
or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently
completed second fiscal quarter: $66,159,182.
 
As of February 29, 2012, there were 6,933,116
shares of the registrant’s Common Stock, no par value, issued and outstanding.
 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
The responses to Part III items 10, 11, 12,
13 and 14 herein are incorporated by reference to certain information in the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 21, 2012.
 
 

 
 

 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION
FORM 10-K
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS


PART I
 
 

ITEM 1.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
3

ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS
13

ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
16

ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
16

ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
16

 
 
 

PART II
 
 

ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
17

ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (Not Applicable)
17

ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
18

ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
29

ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
54

ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
54

ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION
54

 
 
 

PART III
 
 

ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MATTERS
55

ITEM 11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
55

ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
55

ITEM 13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
55

ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
55

 
 
 

PART IV
 
 

ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
55

 
 
 

 
SIGNATURES
58

 
 

2
 

Table of Contents
PART I.
 
ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS 
 
Background 
 
CyberOptics® Corporation was founded in 1984
to commercialize technology for non-contact three-dimensional sensing. Our headquarters are located at 5900 Golden Hills Drive
in Golden Valley, Minnesota. Our website address is www.cyberoptics.com. You can access, free of charge, our filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K and any other amendments to those reports, at our website, or at the Commission’s website at www.sec.gov.
Proxy materials for our upcoming 2012 annual shareholders meeting to be held on May 21, 2012 will be available electronically via
the internet at the following address: http://idelivercommunications.com/proxy/cybe.
 
We are a leading global supplier of optical process
control sensors and inspection systems that are used to control the manufacturing process and to ensure the quality of electronic
circuit boards manufactured by our customers using surface mount technology (SMT). We also manufacture and sell sensors that assist
with yield improvement during semiconductor fabrication and process control sensors for photovoltaic (solar) cell fabrication.
Our products assist the global SMT industry in meeting the rigorous quality demands for printed circuit board assembly and the
global photovoltaic cell and semiconductor fabrication industries with their rigorous quality requirements. Using a variety of
proprietary technologies such as lasers, optics and machine vision, combined with software, electronics and mechanical design,
our products enable manufacturers to increase production volume, product yields and quality by measuring the characteristics and
placement of components and other properties both during and after the manufacturing process.
 
Our business is organized into two operating
segments. Our Electronic Assembly segment designs, manufactures and sells alignment and embedded inspection sensors and stand-alone
inspection systems for the electronic assembly and photovoltaic cell equipment markets. Our Semiconductor segment designs, manufactures
and sells optical and other process control sensors and related equipment for the semiconductor capital equipment market.
 
Most of our products (89% of revenue in 2011)
are developed and sold for use in SMT electronic circuit board assembly or with equipment used in SMT electronic circuit board
assembly or photovoltaic cell manufacturing as part of our Electronic Assembly segment. We sell products in these markets both
as sensor components that are incorporated into products manufactured by other companies for sale to circuit board assembly and
photovoltaic cell manufacturing companies, and as complete stand-alone “systems” that are sold directly to circuit
board assembly companies.
 
Our alignment sensor products are sold to manufacturers
of pick-and-place machines to align electronic surface mount components during placement on the circuit board and to solder paste
screen printer companies to align stencils with circuit boards. We also sell alignment sensors to a manufacturer of photovoltaic
cell equipment to perform accurate high-speed wafer alignment measurements within the wafer print nest.
 
Our stand-alone inspection system products are
sold to original design manufacturers and other companies with surface mount assembly lines, to control quality as in-line systems.
These stand-alone system products are used by manufacturers of circuit boards to measure screen printed solder paste, to inspect
circuit boards and components after component placement, to confirm proper placement after full assembly of circuit boards and
to inspect solder joints on printed circuit boards. Our embedded inspection sensors are sold to manufacturers of pick-and-place
machines and solder paste screen printers for integration into their equipment and offer some, but not all, of the inspection functionality
of our stand-alone inspection systems. Manufacturers of DRAM and Flash memory also use our stand-alone system products to inspect
assembly of their memory modules.
 
Our Semiconductor segment develops and sells
products that assist with yield improvement in semiconductor fabrication, and for use with the robotic equipment that handles semiconductor
wafers during the semiconductor fabrication process. In addition, we sell frame grabber products for general industrial applications.
Semiconductor products were 11% of total revenues in 2011.
 
Market Conditions–Recent Developments
of the Business
 
Our operations are heavily influenced by market
conditions in worldwide electronic markets, and particularly in the SMT electronic assembly segment of these markets. Historically,
these markets have been cyclical, with periods of strong growth followed by periods of excess capacity and reduced levels
of capital spending.
 

3
 

Table of Contents
 
Our results were favorably impacted in 2006 and
2007 as the worldwide demand for cell phones, smart phones, laptops and other consumer electronics remained strong, driving the
need for increased production of printed circuit boards and memory modules, and thereby increasing demand for our electronic assembly
and semiconductor products. After peaking in the third quarter of 2007, our revenue declined sequentially each quarter through
the first quarter of 2009, as our results were negatively impacted by reduced levels of capital spending for electronics manufacturing
capacity brought about by the deepening weakness in the global economy. New orders dropped off sharply late in the fourth quarter
of 2008 as the global economy fell into a severe recession, and our results for 2009 were adversely affected by the ongoing weakness
in the global electronics market. The global electronics market strengthened significantly in 2010 and 2011 as the global economy
continued to improve. The strengthening electronics market, combined with a significant increase in new product introductions led
to a 7% increase in total revenue in 2011, reflecting a 31% increase in sales of our stand-alone solder paste inspection (SPI)
and automated optical inspection (AOI) systems and a 37% increase in sales of WaferSense® products. Sale of alignment sensors
weakened by 18% in 2011 due in part to a weak solar energy market.
 
We commit substantial
resources to research and development efforts, which play a critical role in maintaining and advancing our position as a leading
provider of optical sensors and systems. During the past several years, research and development efforts have been focused on a
number of development activities that are critical to our future growth and success, including the following:
 

 •
Our new next generation QX500 family of AOI system products
with improved resolution and speed.

 

•Dual lane and big board versions of both our SE500 and
QX500 systems.

 

•A new mid-range SE350 SPI system based on the 3D inspection
technology used in the SE500. The SE350 is a lower cost system for customers that do not require the full inspection functionality
of the SE500.

 

•A new dual illumination sensor for the SE500 platform.
This sensor offers customers an additional option providing enhanced solder paste measurement performance and repeatability.

 

•Our common hardware platforms and strobe inspection
module (SIM) utilized in both our new QX500 AOI system and a new embedded inspection solution we have developed for DEK offering
100% 2D solder paste inspection with no cycle time penalty. We will further develop and enhance the capability of the SIM in 2012,
as this technology is important to a number of existing and planned new products.

 

•Our recently introduced off-line AOI tabletop system
(the QX100) and a soon to be introduced lower cost in-line version (the QX100i) based on the same sensor technology used in our
QX500 AOI system.

 

•A new solar wafer alignment camera capable of performing
accurate high-speed alignment measurements within the wafer print nest, including traditional wafer edge alignment of both monocrystalline
and polycrystalline wafer materials.

 

•Continued investment in our WaferSense®
line of products.

 

•Next generation LaserAlign products.

 
 We believe that the first quarter of 2012
will be challenging for the electronics assembly, semiconductor and solar markets. Although we expect that our system sales
may grow  in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to sales in 201l, we expect that sales of SMT sensors will remain
soft, while sales of solar sensors, which accounted for $1.6 million of revenue in the first quarter of 2011, will be
virtually nil. We ended 2011 with an order backlog of $4.9 million, compared to $6.3 million at the end of the third quarter.
Given these factors, we anticipate earnings at or slightly above break-even in the first quarter ending March 31, 2012. We
believe our performance will strengthen as the year progresses, reflecting what we believe will be continued demand for
inspection systems, the introduction of new products, and a rebound in sales of solar sensors later in the year. The second
and third quarters also tend to mark the peak buying periods for Asian original design manufacturer (ODM) customers. As a
result, we are forecasting moderately improved sales and earnings for full-year fiscal 2012. In all, we believe our strategic
emphasis on inspection systems and initiatives aimed at broadening our market reach will enable CyberOptics to report another
growth year in 2012. Our current markets are cyclical. To a certain extent, our future growth is dependent on our ability to
gain share in our current markets and to identify, focus on and achieve success in new markets. Nevertheless, our ability to
achieve our forecast and to implement our strategy effectively is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including the
risks identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful.
 

4
 

Table of Contents
Objective
 
Our objective is to develop full-line defect
monitoring and process control solutions that improve the quality and efficiency of our customers SMT manufacturing operations.
We intend to build upon our innovative products in systems for solder paste inspection, automated optical inspection and component
alignment, with new sensing products that will be embedded inside SMT production equipment. We eventually intend to tie these products
together as a full-line process control solution riding on top of our current statistical process control (SPC) solutions. We believe
our new embedded process verification (EPV) sensor and SIM will eventually gain acceptance among manufacturers of pick-and-place
machines and solder paste screen printers as a further enhancement to inspection and control. Our research and development efforts
are creating new inspection technologies for both OEM and end user markets which we believe will lower the cost of inspection and
provide faster production through-put speeds, better ease of use, and improved resolution for inspecting progressively smaller
electronic components.
 
During the last several years, our Semiconductor
segment continued to invest in our WaferSense® product line, a family of wireless, wafer-like precision measurement tools for
in-situ setup, calibration and process optimization in semiconductor processing equipment. Our first WaferSense product, the Automatic
Leveling Sensor (ALS) was introduced late in 2004. Since that time, we have introduced several new additions to the WaferSense
family of products, including gapping, teaching and vibration sensors that improve up-time and yield for semiconductor manufacturers.
Currently we are working on the newest addition to the product line, a particle sensor, to be introduced in the first quarter of
2012.
 
OPERATIONS AND PRODUCTS 
 
We develop, manufacture and sell intelligent,
non-contact sensors and systems for process control and inspection. Our products are used primarily in the SMT electronic assembly,
semiconductor and photovoltaic cell fabrication industries and enable manufacturers to increase operating efficiencies, product
yields and quality. In addition to proprietary hardware designs that combine precision optics, various light sources and multiple
detectors, our products incorporate software that controls the hardware and filters and converts raw data into application specific
information. Our product offerings are sold both to original equipment manufacturers that supply the SMT and photovoltaic cell
fabrication industries and to end-user customers who use our SMT systems and WaferSense products directly for process and quality
control in the circuit board manufacturing and semiconductor fabrication processes.
 
SMT Electronic Assembly Alignment Sensors
 
Our SMT electronic assembly alignment sensors
product line, which has historically generated the largest component of our sales during the past ten years until 2011, is a family
of alignment sensors that are customized and incorporated into the equipment manufactured by our customers for use in SMT circuit
board assembly. We work closely with our original equipment manufacturer customers to integrate sensors into their equipment.
 
Sales of these products, including service repairs,
to Juki Corporation accounted for approximately 16% of our revenue in 2011 and 21% of our revenue in 2010. Sales of these products,
including service repairs, to Assembleon B.V. accounted for approximately 9% of our revenue in 2011 and 14% of our revenue in 2010.
Accordingly, revenues and operations are currently heavily influenced by the level of purchases from these two customers and by
the cyclical nature of the SMT production industry.
 
LaserAlign. Our LaserAlign sensor
family has accounted for the vast majority of sales in the SMT electronic assembly alignment sensors product line. These sensors
are sold for incorporation into component placement machines used in the SMT production lines that are manufactured by a number
of different OEM customers.
 
The LaserAlign family of products aligns extremely
small surface mount components, known as chip capacitors and resistors, during transport on a pick-and-place machine prior to placement
on a circuit board. LaserAlign sensors are incorporated into the placement heads of component placement machines to ensure accurate
component placement at high production speeds. Various high-speed component placement machines use between one and twenty LaserAlign
sensors per machine. LaserAlign integrates an intelligent sensor, composed of a laser, optics and detectors with a microprocessor
and software for making specific measurements. LaserAlign enables quick and accurate alignment of each component as it is being
transported by the pick-and-place arm for surface mount assembly. Using non-contact technology, LaserAlign facilitates orientation
and placement of components at higher speeds than can be achieved using conventional mechanical or machine vision component centering
systems.
 

5
 

Table of Contents
The LaserAlign sensor is offered in several
different configurations to satisfy the requirements of the different machines on which it is used. The latest version of the LaserAlign
sensor technology was introduced in 2006 in a 5th generation sensor for Juki Corporation. Revenue from new product shipments
of LaserAlign sensors has been a principal contributor to revenue during the past five years and accounted for 20% of our revenue
in 2011 and 27% in 2010.
 
BoardAlign Camera (BA Camera). The
BA Camera, which is incorporated directly into the placement head of component placement machines, identifies fiducial markings
on a circuit board and aligns the board in the component placement machine prior to component placement. The BA Camera was introduced
in a sensor for Assembleon B.V. during 2003 and is incorporated into the latest version of Assembleon’s component placement
machine. We are currently working on a next generation BA Camera for Assembleon. Revenue from shipments of BA Camera sensors to
Assembleon B.V. accounted for 4% of our revenue in 2011 and 7% in 2010.
 
InPrinter Inspection Camera. The
InPrinter Inspection Camera, which is mounted directly in screen printers manufactured by DEK International GmbH, identifies fiducial
markings on a circuit board to ensure accurate board registration prior to placement of solder paste, as well as to provide an
upgraded capability for 2D solder paste and stencil inspection. The InPrinter Inspection Camera was introduced for DEK International
GmbH during the third quarter of 2005. Revenue from shipments of the InPrinter Inspection Camera accounted for 3% of our revenue
in 2011 and 5% in 2010.
 
Photovoltaic Cell Alignment Sensors 
 
Solar
Wafer Alignment Camera. The Solar Wafer Alignment Camera performs accurate
high-speed alignment measurements within the wafer print nest. This camera also has the ability to perform traditional wafer edge
alignment of both monocrystalline and polycrystalline wafer materials. The Solar Wafer Alignment Camera was introduced for DEK
International GmbH during the first quarter of 2010. Revenue from shipments of the Solar Wafer Alignment Camera accounted for 3%
of our revenue in 2011.
 
Embedded and OEM Inspection Solutions
 
Embedded Process Verification.
Juki Corporation, our largest LaserAlign customer, has incorporated our embedded process verification, or EPV™, inspection
technology into its KE-2070 robotic assembly platform. Equipped with our EPV inspection technology, the KE-2070 is the industry’s
first robotic assembly machine capable of inspecting for the presence or absence of electronic components on SMT circuit boards
as they are placed. With EPV inspection technology, Juki’s KE-2070 platform is the only system in the world that can visualize
feeder action during the electronic component placement process with images of both component pick and placement and movie mode.
EPV technology also provides line engineers with a tool for root cause failure analysis during the assembly process to improve
circuit board yields and minimize costly rework or scrap. Our EPV technology is comprised of six ultra small cameras mounted on
a placement head for on-the-fly imaging with no cycle time penalty for the inspection process. The resulting inspection for missing
components on the SMT circuit board operates at the full placement speed of the KE-2070. The Juki KE-2070 platform also will continue
to deploy CyberOptics’ LaserAlignâ component placement sensors to ensure that
electronic components placed on the circuit board are properly aligned and positioned. In 2011, new versions of this EPV technology
were introduced into several other Juki platforms, including the KE-2080 and the FX-3.
 
2D Embedded Solder Paste Inspection.
We are completing integration of our strobe inspection module or (SIM) into DEK’s solder paste screen printer. Equipped with
this module, which will be offered as an option, DEK screen printers will be able to improve yields and productivity by allowing
solder paste screen printing concurrently with high-speed, 100% two dimensional inspection that does not decrease line or printer
speed. Initial shipments of DEK screen printers with embedded inspection began in late 2011.
 
3D Solder Paste Inspection – Viscom
OEM. Early in 2011 we entered into an agreement with Viscom GmbH to integrate SE500 3D solder paste inspection technology
into Viscom’s solder paste inspection platform. Sales of our SE500 3D solder paste inspection sensor to Viscom began in the
second half of 2011.
 
SMT Stand-Alone Inspection Systems Products 
 
Our SMT inspection systems product line consists
of stand-alone measurement and inspection systems used in the SMT electronic assembly industry for process control and inspection.
These systems are sold directly to end-user manufacturing customers that use them in a production line or along-side a production
line to maintain process and quality control. Our products incorporate proprietary sensors substantial, off the shelf, translation
or robotics hardware and conveyors and complete computer systems or processors with internally developed software. We are also
working on a relationship with X-ray inspection manufacturers to further expand our footprint in the SMT inspection market.
 

6
 

Table of Contents
Solder Paste Inspection (SPI) Products

 
We began selling in-line solder paste measurement
machines in the mid-1990’s and cemented our SPI leadership position with the introduction of the SE300 in March 2000 and
the SE300 Ultra in 2005. More recently, we have introduced a number of next generation SPI machines that we believe are not only
extremely competitive, but improve our margins.  
 
SE500. In 2009, we introduced
our latest-generation SE500 SPI system. Based on a new cost-reduced platform, we believe the SE500 offers the best combination
of inspection speed and accuracy available in the market. The SE500 is an in-line system that measures in three dimensions (3D)
the amount of solder paste applied to the circuit board after the first step of the SMT assembly process. Because of the small
size of the components that must be placed on each pad of solder paste and the density of components placed on the circuit board,
a significant amount of SMT assembly problems are related to the quality of solder paste deposition. Misplaced solder paste, excess
or inadequate amounts of paste can lead to improper connections or bridges between leads causing an entire circuit board to malfunction.
The SE500 inspects the height, area and volume of 100% of a circuit board at production line speeds and with resolution that allows
it to measure the smallest chip scale packages and micro ball array component sites. The SE500 can be integrated into most SMT
production lines, providing real time quality control immediately after a printed circuit board leaves the screen printer and before
component placement commences. We further broadened our SE500 product line by developing systems capable of accommodating large
board sizes and dual lane production lines.
 
We also recently introduced a new dual illumination
sensor for the SE500 platform. This sensor offers customers an additional option providing enhanced solder paste measurement performance
and repeatability.
 
SE350. In 2010, we introduced a
new lower-cost SPI system, based on our industry leading 3D inspection technology, at a lower price point for a different segment
of the inspection market; those customers requiring a solder paste inspection capability, but not the full functionality and superior
measurement performance of our SE500 product. As our first mid-range offering, the SE350 has served as a vehicle to expand our
served market. We also see potential for the SE350 to expand our market through sales to those companies who currently deploy no
form of solder paste inspection. In 2012, we expect further cost reduction programs for the SE350 in addition to inspection cycle
time and performance improvements allowing further penetration of the mid-range market segment.
 
Revenues from shipments of our SE500, SE350 and
SE300 Ultra products accounted for 26% of our revenue in 2011 and 29% of our revenue in 2010.
 
Automated Optical Inspection (AOI) Products
 
We introduced our first in-line AOI products,
the Flex series, in the fourth quarter of 2000. We introduced the latest version of the Flex series, the Flex Ultra HR, in 2007.
Subsequently, we introduced our next-generation QX500 AOI system in the second quarter of 2010. These products inspect circuit
boards after component placement to determine whether all components are present and have been placed correctly and can also be
used to measure the quality of solder joints after the reflow oven.
 
QX500. Our latest generation AOI
system, the QX500 is designed to inspect the placement of the smallest components on circuit boards and features a cost reduced
design that uses our strobe inspection module (SIM) sensor technology and next-generation common hardware platform. The QX500 features
the fastest AOI inspection times currently available in the market and also utilizes our unique SAM™ software technology
which offers an industry leading level of low false call performance. In 2011 we broadened our product line by introducing additional
versions of the QX500 accommodating dual production lanes and capable of inspecting larger circuit board sizes. Late in 2011, we
introduced a new tabletop AOI system (the QX100) for off-line inspection based on our SIM sensor technology. In 2012, we expect
to introduce new versions of the QX in-line systems that offer higher resolution and a significant improvement in programming time,
allowing for increased use in the low volume, high-mix applications more prevalent in the Americas and European markets.
 
Revenues from shipments of our QX500 product
family and Flex Ultra AOI products accounted for 26% of our revenue in 2011 and 13% of our revenue in 2010.
 
Semiconductor Products
 
Our principal semiconductor products, the WaferSense®
family of products, are a series of wireless sensors that provide measurements of critical factors in the semiconductor fabrication
process. Other semiconductor products include sensors that inspect the presence and orientation of semiconductor wafers in cassettes
and FOUPS during the fabrication process, and frame grabber and machine vision subsystems. We sell our semiconductor products to
both original equipment manufacturers and to end-user customers through a network of distributors. Sales of our semiconductor products
constituted 11% of our revenue in 2011 and 2010.
 


7
 

Table of Contents
 
WaferSense® Sensors. Our
WaferSense family of sensors are intended to go where wafers go in semiconductor fabrication and provide measurements
of critical factors that are currently impossible or extremely difficult to obtain without powering down the fabrication
process equipment. Because the user is not required to break down semiconductor fabrication equipment when using our
WaferSense products, our customers tell us that significant time is saved and accuracy is increased compared to the manual
techniques currently used by many customers when checking the process parameters measured by our WaferSense products. As a
result of WaferSense technology, up-time, through-put and process yield for semiconductor fabrication equipment is improved.
 
We introduced our first WaferSense product in
late 2004 and have since continued to add new products to the WaferSense family. The automatic leveling sensor (ALS) is a wireless,
vacuum-compatible sensor that can be placed in cassettes, FOUPS, on end effectors, aligners, in load locks and process chambers
used in semiconductor fabrication to ensure that all stations are level and coplanar. The automatic gapping sensor (AGS) is a gapping
tool that measures the gap in three places between the shower head and pedestal in semiconductor process equipment. The automatic
teaching sensor (ATS), measures X-Y-Z offset from robotic transfers of wafers to the pedestal in semiconductor process equipment.
The amount of gap and offset after robotic transfer of wafers to the shower pedestal can affect film thickness and uniformity when
material is deposited on semiconductor wafers, impacting quality and product yields. The automatic vibration sensor (AVS) measures
X-Y-Z acceleration for shock and vibration, which can generate wafer particles, scratches or wafer breakage, thereby reducing yield.
The automatic particle sensor (APS), to be introduced early in 2012, will allow engineers to efficiently detect and classify particles
and their exact sources in a process as wafers are transferred, slit valves actuate and chambers are cycled, pumped down and purged.
APS is being designed to be compatible with front-ends, coater/developer tracks, deposition and etch equipment.
 
Wafer Mapping and Alignment Sensors.
We manufacture and sell laser based reflective sensors that improve the performance of robotic wafer handling equipment. During
the fabrication process, semiconductor wafers are stored in slotted cassettes during transport to various fabrication tools. Robotic
equipment removes the wafers from the cassettes and inserts them into a fabrication tool. Our wafer mapping sensors inspect for
the presence of wafers in the cassettes and determine if the wafer is properly present and located in the cassette.
 
Frame Grabber Products and Machine Vision
Subsystems. Frame grabber products are a machine vision component that captures, digitizes, and stores video images. These
products are currently sold into a broad array of applications in a number of different industries, with an emphasis on semiconductor
customers. We offer both digital and analog versions of frame grabbers under the Imagenation brand.
 
Markets and Customers 
 
We sell the vast majority of our products into
the electronics and photovoltaic cell manufacturing markets (89% of total revenue in 2011 came from our Electronic Assembly segment).
The value of automation is high in these markets because the products produced have high unit costs and are manufactured at speeds
too high for effective human intervention. Moreover, the trend toward smaller electronic devices with higher circuit densities,
smaller circuit paths and extremely small components requires manufacturing and testing equipment capable of extremely accurate
alignment and multidimensional measurement such as achieved using non-contact optical sensors. Trends in the SMT market include
further efforts to reduce the cost of the manufacturing process, with continued movement to low cost regions with less skilled
engineers operating equipment. Our alignment and inspection sensors and embedded inspection solutions are sold to OEM’s serving
the SMT circuit board assembly market and our stand-alone SPI and AOI systems are sold to end-user electronic assembly manufacturers
in this market. Our solar wafer alignment camera is sold to DEK on an OEM basis for use in their photovoltaic cell manufacturing
equipment.
 
We sell our semiconductor products into the
semiconductor capital equipment market for use in the fabrication of semiconductor devices. This market has many of the same characteristics
as the SMT electronics assembly market and requires non-contact optical measurement tools that enable the production of more complex,
higher density and smaller semiconductor devices. Our WaferSense™ family of precision measurement tools for process optimization
in semiconductor processing equipment is sold directly to semiconductor fabrication facilities for use by process and equipment
engineers during the production of semiconductor wafers. We sell our wafer mapping and alignment sensors to manufacturers of equipment
that transport wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing (front-end fabrication) process.
 
A large proportion of our stand-alone inspection
system sales are originating in the low cost geographies of Asia where a significant portion of the new worldwide production capacity
for circuit board assembly has been added. In order to bring our development and final assembly and integration for our stand-alone
inspection system products closer to the markets in Asia where the majority of our sales occur, to reduce cost, and to free development
personnel at our home office in Minneapolis to focus on sensor technology development, we initiated a plan in 2008 to transition
a portion of our development, and all final assembly and integration operations for our stand-alone system products, to Singapore.
This transition was substantially complete by the end of the first quarter of 2009. We previously established sales offices in
Singapore in 2001 and China in 2004 to serve the growing market for manufacturing production equipment in Asia and to increase
the percentage of worldwide production lines that use inspection in their production process to improve production yields and reduce
cost.
 


8
 

Table of Contents
We sell our products worldwide to many of the
leading manufacturers of electronic circuit board assembly equipment, manufacturers of semiconductor DRAM memory, semiconductor
capital equipment manufacturers and end-user electronic assembly manufacturers, including Asian original design manufacturers (ODM’s)
and electronic manufacturing service providers (EMS’s), who manufacture cell phones, smart phones, notebook computers and
server boards, among other electronic devices. We manufacture our OEM alignment and inspection sensors, embedded inspection solutions,
the sensors used in our stand-alone inspection systems and all of our semiconductor products in our Minneapolis, Minnesota headquarters
facility. All final assembly and integration for our stand-alone system products takes place in our Singapore facility.
 
Export sales represent a large percentage of
our total sales because the majority of new worldwide electronics and semiconductor capacity is being added outside the United
States. In addition, a significant portion of our export sales to Europe are electronic assembly alignment sensors that ultimately
are sold by our OEM customer into Asia.
 
The following table sets forth the percentage
of total sales revenue represented by total export sales (sales for delivery to countries other than the United States, including
sales delivered through distributors) by location during the past two years:
 


 
December 31,

 
2011
 
2010

Asia
56%
 
55%

Europe
25%
 
27%

Other export sales (1)
 4%
 
 4%

 
 
 
 

(1) Includes export sales in the Americas, primarily export sales to Canada, Mexico and Latin America.

 
See Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements
contained in item 8 of this Form 10-K. Virtually all export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars. Accordingly,
although changes in exchange rates do not affect revenue and income per unit, they can influence the willingness of customers to
purchase units.
 
Sales and Marketing 
 
Our electronic assembly and photovoltaic cell
alignment and inspection sensors are sold to large OEM customers by direct sales staff located in Minnesota. Our stand-alone system
products are primarily sold through independent representatives and distributors managed by direct sales personnel located in Singapore,
as well as in the UK, U.S. and China. We have agreements with 42 independent representatives and distributors who focus on sales
and service of our stand-alone system products to end-user customers. These agreements cover North and South America (15), Europe
(12) and China and the rest of Asia (15).
 
We have established a separate worldwide sales
representative organization for our WaferSense® semiconductor products. We currently have agreements in place or in process
with sales representatives in the U.S. (3), Europe (3) and the Pacific Rim (7). Our wafer mapping semiconductor products are sold
to large OEM customers by a direct sales staff located in Oregon. We sell our semiconductor frame grabber products through direct
sales staff located in Portland, Oregon, and through 13 sales representatives located throughout the world. These representatives
are not under contract, but are authorized to sell frame grabber products and in many cases act as system integrators for our products.
 
We market our products through appearances at
industry trade shows, advertising in industry journals, articles published in industry and technical journals and on the Internet.
In addition, we have strategic relationships with certain key customers that serve as highly visible references.
 
Backlog 
 
Our products are typically shipped two weeks
to two months after the receipt of an order. Product backlog was $4.9 million on December 31, 2011, compared to $7.2 million on
December 31, 2010. Backlog totaling $4.1 million is deliverable in the first quarter of 2012. Sales of some stand-alone SMT inspection
system products may require customer acceptance due to performance or other acceptance criteria included in the terms of sale.
For these SMT product sales, revenue is recognized at the time of customer acceptance. Although our business is generally not of
a highly seasonal nature, sales may vary based on the capital procurement practices in the electronics, photovoltaic cell manufacturing
and semiconductor industries. For example, production capacity expansion for anticipated holiday or back to school demands can
result in higher levels of sales in our second and third quarters. Moreover, the second and third quarters tend to mark the peak
buying periods for our Asian ODM customers. However, we are not able to quantify with any level of precision, the impact of these
events on our sales in any given quarterly period. Our scheduled backlog at any time may vary significantly based on the timing
of orders from OEM customers. Accordingly, backlog may not be an accurate indicator of performance in the future.
 

9
 

Table of Contents
Research and Development 
 
We differentiate our products primarily on the
basis of customer benefits afforded by the use of clever and proprietary technology and on our ability to combine several different
technical disciplines to address industry and customer needs. CyberOptics was founded by research scientists and has retained relationships
with academic institutions to ensure that the most current information on technological developments is obtained. In addition,
we actively seek ongoing strategic customer relationships with leading product innovators in our served markets and actively investigate
the needs of, and seek input from, these customers to identify opportunities to improve manufacturing processes. Our engineers
have frequent interactions with our customers to ensure adoption of current technologies. In some instances, we receive funding
from these customers through development contracts that provide the customer with an exclusive selling period but allow us to retain
technology and distribution rights.
 
As a technology based
company, we commit substantial resources to research and development efforts, which play a critical role in maintaining and advancing
our position as a leading provider of optical sensors and systems. During the past several years, research and development efforts
have been focused on a number of development activities critical to our future growth and success, including the following:
 

•Our new next generation QX500 family of AOI system products
with improved resolution and speed.

 

•Dual lane and big board versions of both our SE500 and
QX500 systems.

 

•A new mid-range SE350 SPI system based on the 3D inspection
technology used in the SE500. The SE350 is a lower cost system for customers that do not require the full inspection functionality
of the SE500.

 

•A new dual illumination sensor for the SE500 platform.
This sensor offers customers an additional option providing enhanced solder paste measurement performance and repeatability.

 

•Our common hardware platforms and strobe inspection
module (SIM) utilized in both our new QX500 AOI system and a new embedded inspection solution we have developed for DEK offering
100% 2D solder paste inspection with no cycle time penalty. We will further develop and enhance the capability of the SIM in 2012,
as this technology is important to a number of existing and planned new products.

 

•Our recently introduced off-line AOI tabletop system
(the QX100) and a soon to be introduced lower cost in-line version (the QX100i) based on the same sensor technology used in our
QX500 AOI system.

 

•A new solar wafer alignment camera capable of performing
accurate high-speed alignment measurements within the wafer print nest, including traditional wafer edge alignment of both monocrystalline
and polycrystalline wafer materials.

 

•Continued investment in our WaferSense® line of
                                                                                   products.

 

•Next generation LaserAlign products.

 
Research and development expenses were $7.8
million in 2011 and $7.4 million in 2010. These amounts represented 13% of revenues in 2011 and 2010. Research and development
expenses consist primarily of salaries, project materials, contract labor and other costs associated with ongoing product development
and enhancement efforts. Research and development resource utilization is centrally managed based on market opportunities and the
status of individual projects. We expect research and development expenses to increase in 2012 as we continue to focus on new products,
including new stand-alone inspection offerings based on our 3D SPI technology and 2D inspection technology utilizing our strobe
inspection module (SIM), new embedded inspection solutions for both solder paste and automated optical inspection and new WaferSense
products.
 
 

10
 

Table of Contents
Manufacturing 
 
Much of our product manufacturing, which is primarily
circuit board manufacturing, lens manufacturing and metal parts production, is contracted with outside suppliers. Our production
personnel inspect incoming parts, perform final assembly, calibrate and perform final quality control testing of finished products.
Our products are not well suited for the large production runs that would justify the capital investment necessary for complete
internal manufacturing.
 
Our electronic assembly and photovoltaic cell
alignment sensor products and our semiconductor products are assembled at our Minneapolis, Minnesota headquarters facility. Our
stand-alone SMT inspection system products are assembled in Singapore.
 
A variety of components used in our products
are available only from single sources and involve relatively long order cycles, in some cases over one year. We believe we have
identified alternative assembly contractors for most of our subassemblies. Use of those alternative contractors could require substantial
rework of the product designs, resulting in periods during which we could not satisfy customer orders. An actual change in such
contractors would likely require a period of training and testing. Accordingly, an interruption in a supply relationship or the
production capacity of one or more of such contractors could result in the inability to deliver one or more products for a period
of several months. To help prevent delays in the shipment of our products, we maintain in inventory, or on scheduled delivery from
suppliers, what we believe to be a sufficient amount of certain components based on forecasted demand (forecast extends a minimum
of 6 months).  
 
Competition 
 
Although we believe that our products offer
unique capabilities, competitors offer technologies and systems that perform some of the visual inspection and alignment functions
performed by our products. We face competition from a number of companies in the machine vision, image processing and inspection
systems market, some of which are larger and have greater financial resources.
 
Our electronic assembly sensor products face
competition in the market for alignment and inspection on component placement machines primarily from manufacturers of vision (camera
and software based) systems. Potential competitors in these markets include Cognex Corporation and Electro Scientific Industries,
Inc. In addition, our products compete with systems developed by OEMs using their own design staff for incorporation into their
products. We compete in this market based on our ability to custom design products with stringent physical form requirements, speed,
flexibility, low cost and ease of control. Our electronic assembly alignment sensor products have historically competed favorably
on the basis of these factors, and particularly on the basis of speed and product cost. We believe our sensor products are also
better suited to align the smaller electronic component sizes currently available in the market. Nevertheless, advances in terms
of speed by vision systems have reduced some of the advantages of our products in some configurations. We have introduced newer
configurations that we believe allow our alignment sensors, and the component placement machines in which they are incorporated,
to compete favorably based on the speed and accuracy of their performance, as well as their price.
 
The primary competition for sales of our next
generation SE500 and SE350 SPI systems has been from Asian based companies such as KohYoung Technology (Korea), Parmi (Korea) and
Test Research, Inc. (Taiwan). We believe the SE500 and SE350 compete favorably against these competitive products on the basis
of performance, reliability and price and that the new dual illumination sensor will allow us to better compete for those customers
who require an enhanced level of solder paste measurement performance and repeatability.
 
Our AOI system products (QX500 family of products,
QX100 and QX100i) face competition from a large number of AOI companies, the most significant being MirTec, Ltd. (Korea), Viscom
(Germany), Saki Corporation (Japan) and Omron, Ltd. (Japan). We believe that the technology used in the QX500 family of products,
QX100 and QX100i is differentiated from the competition and that these products compete effectively in this market based on measurement
accuracy, cost, ease of use at rapid production line speeds and the low rate of false calls.
 
The electronics manufacturing market has become
increasingly competitive and concentrated in large Asian based original design manufacturers and global electronic manufacturing
service contract manufacturers, resulting in the ability on their part to drive more competition into the market and command more
favorable terms when purchasing from suppliers, including capital equipment suppliers like CyberOptics. Due to the increased level
of competition, we have been required to decrease the price of our solder paste and automated optical inspection systems in some
markets. These same pricing pressures also impact our OEM customers for our alignment sensors, who in turn ask us to design newer
products at a lower price point to allow them to remain competitive in the marketplace. We respond to these pricing pressures through
continuous investment in research and development of cost reduced products with new features and enhancements across all product
lines that command better pricing in the market.
 

 

11
 

Table of Contents
We believe our WaferSense® products are
unique to the marketplace and primarily face competition from the manual techniques currently used by most customers to monitor
their semiconductor fabrication equipment. Because the user is not required to break down semiconductor fabrication equipment,
or pressurize a vacuum chamber, we believe that our WaferSense products will save significant time and increase measurement accuracy
over the manual techniques currently used by customers and will improve equipment up-time, through-put and process yield.
 
Although we believe our current products offer
several advantages in terms of price and suitability for specific applications and although we have attempted to protect the proprietary
nature of such products, it is possible that any of our products could be duplicated by other companies in the same general market.
 
Employees 
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had 193 full-time
employees worldwide, including 46 in sales, marketing and customer support, 63 in manufacturing, purchasing and production operations,
65 in engineering, research and development, and 19 in finance, administration and information services. Of these employees, 99
are located at our corporate headquarters in Minneapolis and 94 are located in other offices (7 in the UK, 10 in Oregon, 64 in
Singapore, 9 in China, 2 in Taiwan and 2 in Japan). All of our employees located in Oregon work in our Semiconductor business.
To date, we have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified technical personnel, although there can be no assurance
that this success will continue. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of a union.
 
Proprietary Protection 
 
We rely on the technical expertise and know-how
of our personnel and trade secret protection, as well as on patents, to maintain our competitive position. We attempt to protect
intellectual property by restricting access to proprietary methods by a combination of technical and internal security measures.
In addition, we make use of non-disclosure agreements with customers, consultants, suppliers and employees. Nevertheless, there
can be no assurance that any of the above measures will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology.
 
We hold 78 patents (50 U.S. and 28
foreign) on a number of technologies, including those used in LaserAlign, our embedded inspection technology including our
strobe inspection module (SIM), our stand-alone inspection systems and other products. Some of the patents relate to equipment
such as pick-and-place machines, into which our products are integrated. In addition, we have 38 pending patents (10
U.S. and 28 foreign). We protect the proprietary nature of our software primarily through copyright and license agreements,
but also through close integration with our hardware offerings. We utilize 14 registered trademarks (6 U.S. and 8 foreign) and
have no trademark registrations pending. We also have 8 domain names and several common law trademarks. It is our policy
to protect the proprietary nature of our new product developments whenever they are likely to become significant sources of revenue.
No guarantee can be given that we will be able to obtain patent or other protection for other products.
 
As the number of our products increases and
the functionality of those products expands, we may become increasingly subject to attempts to duplicate our proprietary technology
and to infringement claims. In addition, although we do not believe that any of our products infringe the rights of others, there
can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future or that any such assertion will not require
us to enter into a royalty arrangement or result in litigation.
 
Government Regulation 
 
Many of our products contain lasers. Products
containing lasers are classified as either Class I, Class II or Class IIIb Laser Products under applicable rules and regulations
of the Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) of the Food and Drug Administration. Such regulations generally require
a self-certification procedure pursuant to which a manufacturer must file with the CDRH with respect to each product incorporating
a laser device, periodic reporting of sales and purchases and compliance with product labeling standards. Our lasers are generally
not harmful to human tissue, but could result in injury if directed into the eyes of an individual or otherwise misused. We are
not aware of any incident involving injury or a claim of injury from our laser devices and believe that our sensors and sensor
systems comply with all applicable laws for the manufacture of laser devices.
 
 
 

12
 

Table of Contents
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
 
Our operations are subject to a number
of risks and uncertainties that may affect our financial results, our accounting, and the accuracy of the forward looking statements
we make in this Form 10-K. We make statements regarding anticipated product introductions and performance, changes in markets,
customers and customer order rates, expenditures in research and development, growth in revenue and improvement in profits, taxation
levels, the effects of pricing, and competition, all of which represent our expectations and beliefs about future events. Our actual
results may vary from these expectations because of a number of factors that affect our business, the most important of which include
the following:
 

•
Our business has been and will continue to be significantly impacted by the global
economy, and the current uncertainty in the outlook for the global economy makes it more likely that our actual results will differ
materially from expectations. In 2009, the world economy experienced the worst economic recession since the great depression
of the 1930’s. The severe economic conditions were brought about by extreme disruptions in global credit and financial markets
including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth,
increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Although the world economy has started to recover,
there can be no assurance as to the length and strength of the recovery, that it will continue or that the economy will not slide
back into another period of recession. These economic uncertainties affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways, making
it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Any tightening of credit in financial markets may
lead consumers and businesses to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their existing
and future orders with us. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product
delays, increased accounts receivable defaults and inventory challenges. The original equipment manufacturers to which we sell
our sensors supply SMT manufacturers, and those manufacturers, as well as the circuit board manufacturers that purchase our SMT
systems products directly, are largely dependent on continued demand for consumer and commercial electronics, including cell phones,
smart phones and computers. Demand for electronics is a function of the health of the economies in the United States and around
the world. Our results would be adversely affected in the future, when or if these economies move into periods of recession, thereby
negatively impacting the demand for overall electronics and adversely affecting demand for our products.

 

•
Sales to our four largest customers constituted a significant portion of our revenue
in 2011 and loss of any of these customers, or a decline in the customer’s business, would have a materially adverse impact
on our results of operation. Sales to our four largest customers, including our two principal OEM sensor customers, and two
original design manufacturers, constituted 46% of our total revenue in 2011. We believe our relationships with these customers
are good and we continue to pursue new projects with them. However, like most manufactures in and suppliers to the global electronics
markets, their businesses were adversely impacted by recession, and would most likely again be impacted in the future when or
if the global economy moves into another recessionary period. If the order rates of these customers are negatively impacted by
global economic events beyond their control, or if they choose sensors of inspections systems manufactured by other suppliers,
or otherwise terminate their relationships with us, our long-term results of operations would be
significantly adversely affected.

 

•The market for capital equipment for the electronics
industry in which we operate is cyclical and we cannot predict with precision when market downturns will occur. We operate
in a cyclical market–the electronics capital equipment market–that periodically adjusts independent of global
economic conditions. We have been unable to predict with accuracy the timing or magnitude of periodic downturns in this market.
These downturns, particularly the severe downturns in electronics production markets from 2001 through 2003, and from 2008 through
2009, have severely affected our operations and generated several years of unprofitable operations. Ultimately, we have difficulty
determining the duration or severity of any market downturns, the strength of any subsequent recoveries, and the long-term impact
that the market may have on our business.

 

•With our Solar Wafer Alignment camera, we have entered a new
                                                                                   market where capital equipment purchases are dependent upon market factors that differ from our typical markets and may be
                                                                                   more difficult to project. Sales of our Solar Wafer Alignment Camera are dependent upon the ability of DEK (a division
                                                                                   of                                                                                    Dover Corporation) to design and sell
                                                                                   photovoltaic cell equipment which is competitive in the marketplace. DEK’s success in turn is also dependent upon
                                                                                   the                                                                                      commercial success of the solar
                                                                                   energy                                                                                    market.
                                                                                   Solar energy is                                                                                              currently not
                                                                                   as                                                                                    economical as other more
                                                                                   conventional                                                                                    energy sources, including
                                                                                   those
                                                                                   based on fossil fuels and its use is dependent upon significant government subsidies in many markets. Our future revenue
                                                                                   from                                                                                    this product and ability to sell
                                                                                   existing inventory may be impacted if DEK’s equipment is not competitive or if government subsidies for solar energy
                                                                                   are                                                                                    reduced or
                                                                                   eliminated, or if the                                                                                    technology related
                                                                                   to solar energy does not continue to
                                                                                   advance and become competitive with other more conventional sources of energy.

 


13
 

Table of Contents

•World events beyond our control may affect our operations.
Our operations and markets could be negatively affected by world events that effect economies and commerce in countries, such
as China, Singapore and Japan, in which we do business. Natural disasters, such as the SARS outbreak, have affected travel patterns
and accessibility in these countries in the past and other natural occurrences, such as a bird flu outbreak, could affect the
business we do in these countries in the future. Other natural disasters, such as the tsunami and earthquake that hit Japan and
the floods that hit Thailand in 2011, could also affect the business we do in the affected regions. Further, these countries may
be affected by economic forces that are different from the forces that affect the United States and change the amount of business
we conduct.

 

•We generate more than three quarters of our revenue
(approximately 85% in 2011) from export sales that are subject to risks of international operations. Our export sales are
subject to many of the risks of international operations including:

 

•currency controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates;


•changes in local market business requirements and increased cost and development time
required to modify and translate our products for local markets;


•inability to recruit qualified personnel in a specific country or region;


•difficulty in establishing and maintaining relationships with local vendors;


•differing foreign technical standards;


•differing regulatory requirements;


•export restrictions and controls, tariffs and other trade barriers;


•reduced protection for intellectual property rights;


•changes in political and economic conditions;


•seasonal reductions in business activity;


•potentially adverse tax assessments; and


•terrorism, disease, or other events that may affect local economies and access.
 

•We conduct platform and software development and final
                                                                                   assembly                                                                                    and integration for our
                                                                                   stand-alone system products in Singapore which are subject to unique risks due to the remote nature of the operations. Our
                                                                                   Singapore development and manufacturing operations present a number of risks related to the retention of personnel,
                                                                                   management of product development and operations, control over administrative and business processes, regulatory and legal
                                                                                   issues we may encounter and other matters relating to foreign operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to
                                                                                   retain                                                                                    software development and
                                                                                   management                                                                                    personnel in Singapore at
                                                                                   attractive rates. Although most components for our system
                                                                                   products are more readily available in Singapore, some of the hardware components used in our system products necessary for
                                                                                   manufacture in Singapore may be difficult to import at efficient rates. Our financial performance, ability to serve our
                                                                                   customers and ability to manufacture products could be negatively impacted if we are unable to retain our Singapore based
                                                                                   employees, or if it costs more than expected to retain these employees or hire experienced employees in a timely manner, or
                                                                                   if we are unable to locate suitable sources of supply for our products manufactured in Asia.

 

•We price our products in US dollars, and as a result,
our products may have difficulty competing in periods of increasing strength of the dollar. Virtually all of our international
export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars, and accordingly, currency fluctuations do not affect our revenue
per unit. However, significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies could have an impact
on the price competitiveness of our products relative to foreign competitors, which could impact the willingness of customers
to purchase our products and have an impact on our results of operations.

 

•Because of our significant operations in Singapore,
our costs are negatively impacted when the U.S. dollar weakens relative to the Singapore dollar.  A significant portion of
our cost of goods, research and development and sales and marketing costs are denominated in the Singapore dollar. In addition,
other sales and marketing costs are denominated in British Pounds Sterling and the Chinese Yuan, resulting from our sales offices
located in the UK and China. Our costs will increase, and our results will be negatively impacted in future periods, if the
U.S. dollar weakens relative to the currencies of these countries.

 

14
 

Table of Contents

•We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts
to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies associated with our
subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore, which may result in unrealized, pre-tax losses. At December 31, 2011, the
dollar equivalent gross notional amount of our foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges was approximately
$11.0 million. At December 31, 2011, our open foreign exchange forward contracts were in an unrealized loss position equal to
$493,000 on a pre-tax basis due to a significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar in relation to the Singapore dollar in the later
part of 2011. If the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Singapore dollar were to remain unchanged over the next twelve
months, we would realize this loss through our statement of operations. However, because we do not fully hedge all of our future
anticipated cash flows in Singapore dollars, the portion of our costs that we do not hedge would be lower in relation to recent
quarters. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken in future periods in relation to the Singapore dollar, the unrealized loss on our
open foreign exchange forward contracts would be reduced, but costs that are not hedged would increase. For example, the unrealized
pre-tax loss on our open foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding as of January 31, 2012 had been reduced to approximately
$139,000, due to a weaker U.S. dollar. The ultimate impact of any fluctuation in the relationship between the U.S. dollar and
Singapore dollar is dependent on the level of Singapore denominated cash flows in future periods.

 

•Our products could become obsolete. Our current
products, as well as the products we have under development, are designed to operate with the technology we believe currently
exists or may exist for electronic components, printed circuit boards, memory modules, photovoltaic wafers and semiconductor manufacturing.
The technology for these components changes rapidly and, because it takes considerable time to develop new products, we must anticipate
technological developments in order to effectively compete. Further, because we do not have unlimited development resources, we
might choose to forgo the pursuit of what becomes a leading technology and devote our resources to technology that is less successful.
If we incorrectly anticipate technology developments, or have inadequate resources to develop our products to deal with changes
in technology, our products could become obsolete.

 

•We compete in the electronics assembly alignment
sensor market with larger companies. Our electronic assembly alignment sensor products compete with products made by larger
machine vision companies, other optical sensor companies, and by solutions internally developed by our customers. Advances in
machine vision technology in recent years have eliminated some, but not all, of the features that have differentiated our products
from some of these competitors, and advances in other technologies could eliminate other advantages.

 

•The market for surface mount capital equipment has
become very price competitive. The electronics capital equipment market for surface mount technologies is becoming more mature,
resulting in increased price pressure on suppliers of equipment. Consequently, our electronic assembly stand-alone system and
alignment sensor products have become subject to increased levels of price competition and competition from other suppliers and
technologies, including suppliers in Asia who have specifically designed their products to compete favorably against our products.

 

•We are dependent upon our systems business for approximately
one-half of our revenue. During 2011, approximately 52% of our total revenue was generated by sales of stand-alone SPI and
AOI systems. Sales of these products have been subject to increasing competition in world markets, particularly in Asia, negatively
impacting sales prices for our products. If we are not successful in continuing to sell and differentiate this product line relative
to our competition, our results of operations would be negatively affected.

 

•Competitors in Asia may be able to compete favorably
with us based on lower production and employee costs. We compete with large multinational systems companies in sales of stand-alone
end-user system products, many of which are able to take advantage of greater financial resources and larger sales distribution
networks. We also compete with new Asian based suppliers of stand-alone end-user systems products, many of which may have lower
overall production and employee costs and are willing to offer their products at lower selling prices to customers.

 

•We are exposed to credit risk through sales to our
OEM customers and distributors of our stand-alone system products. We sell our products through three key OEM customers, and
usually have significant credit exposure with respect to these customers. In addition, we sell our stand-alone inspection system
products through a network of international distributors. These distributors tend to be smaller in size with limited financial
resources and access to capital. Although these distributors do not hold our products in inventory for re-sale, we are exposed
to credit risk and would incur losses if they are unable to pay for the products they have purchased from us.

 

15
 

Table of Contents

•We are dependent upon outside suppliers for components
of our products, and delays in or unavailability of those components would adversely affect our results. We use outside contractors
to manufacture the components used in many of our products and some of the components we order require significant lead times
that could affect our ability to sell our products if not available. In addition, if these components do not meet stringent quality
requirements or become subject to obsolescence, there could be delays in product availability, and we could be required to make
significant investments in designing replacement components.

 

•Our growth has been dependent on technical innovation,
some of which was generated by our founder, and our growth could be impacted if we are unable to innovate in the future. Although
our results are cyclical, our longer-term growth has been in the past, and we anticipate will be in the future, dependent upon
our ability to introduce new and innovative products. Many of our product innovations were generated by our founder, Dr. Steven
K. Case, who died in June 2009. Although we have devoted and continue to devote significant resources to research and development
to support this innovation and believe we have talented scientists who have and will continue to develop significant new inventions,
if we fail to create significant new product innovations, our market position would be negatively impacted.

 


•Our
                                                                                                                                                 ability
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 gain
                                                                                                                                                 share
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 our
                                                                                                                                                 current
                                                                                                                                                 markets
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 identify,
                                                                                                                                                 focus
                                                                                                                                                 on
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 achieve
                                                                                                                                                 success
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 new
                                                                                                                                                 markets
                                                                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                                                 dependent
                                                                                                                                                 on
                                                                                                                                                 our
                                                                                                                                                 ability
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 identify
                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                 customer
                                                                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 segments
                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                                 our
                                                                                                                                                 current
                                                                                                                                                 market
                                                                                                                                                 or
                                                                                                                                                 new
                                                                                                                                                 markets
                                                                                                                                                 where
                                                                                                                                                 we
                                                                                                                                                 lack
                                                                                                                                                 familiarity.
                                                                                                                                                 Our
                                                                                                                                                 ability
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 grow
                                                                                                                                                 share
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 our
                                                                                                                                                 current
                                                                                                                                                 markets
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 achieve
                                                                                                                                                 success
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 new
                                                                                                                                                 markets
                                                                                                                                                 is
                                                                                                                                                 subject
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                 number
                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                                 risks,
                                                                                                                                                 including
                                                                                                                                                 hiring
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 retaining
                                                                                                                                                 key
                                                                                                                                                 sales
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 marketing
                                                                                                                                                 personnel,
                                                                                                                                                 identifying
                                                                                                                                                 new
                                                                                                                                                 markets
                                                                                                                                                 where
                                                                                                                                                 our
                                                                                                                                                 technology
                                                                                                                                                 may
                                                                                                                                                 have
                                                                                                                                                 applicability,
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 our
                                                                                                                                                 ability
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 identify
                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                 requirements
                                                                                                                                                 to
                                                                                                                                                 successfully
                                                                                                                                                 compete
                                                                                                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                 those
                                                                                                                                                 markets,
                                                                                                                                                 including
                                                                                                                                                 sales
                                                                                                                                                 channels,
                                                                                                                                                 product
                                                                                                                                                 development
                                                                                                                                                 and
                                                                                                                                                 other
                                                                                                                                                 market
                                                                                                                                                 specific
                                                                                                                                                 requirements.


 

•The absence of significant market liquidity in our
common stock could impact the ability of our shareholders to purchase and sell larger blocks, the attractiveness of our stock
to institutional shareholders, and the market value of our common stock. There were 6,933,029
shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011.  Although our common stock is traded in the NASDAQ Global
Market, in part because of the number of shares we have outstanding and available for trading, the daily trading volume in our
stock is low, averaging less than 15,000 shares per day. Shareholders wishing to purchase or sell larger blocks of stock may not
be able to do so quickly, and disposal by any shareholder of a significant block of stock could adversely affect the sale price
in the marketplace.  Further, institutional investors often have policies against investment in stock that is illiquid, and
many institutional investors may elect not to purchase or hold our stock because of the inability to dispose of it. The reduced
institutional interest, as well as the lack of current evaluations by securities analysts, has had and can be expected to continue
to have a further adverse impact on the market price and liquidity of our common stock.

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 
We lease a 50,724 square foot mixed office
and warehouse facility built to our specifications in Golden Valley, Minnesota, which functions as our corporate headquarters
and primary manufacturing facility for our sensor products, including the sensors used in our stand-alone system products and
our semiconductor products. In March 2011, we finalized a lease amendment for the facility that became effective July 1,
2011. The amendment provides that we will lease the current facility through December 31, 2018. The amendment contains
escalation clauses and two renewal options of three years each.  Our prior lease for the facility expired on June 30, 2011.
In connection with the lease amendment, we reduced the size of the facility by 9,943 square feet.
 
We lease a 20,000 square foot mixed office and
warehouse facility in Singapore that serves as a sales, development and final assembly and integration facility for our stand-alone
system products. The lease for our facility in Singapore expires in July 2013. As of December 31, 2011, we also have operating
leases in Oregon (for our semiconductor products), the United Kingdom, and China, which expire in December 2012, December 2014
and September 2012, respectively. We believe that our leased facilities are adequate for our anticipated needs for the foreseeable future.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
 
We are not currently subject to any material
pending or threatened legal proceedings.
 
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 
None.
 
 

16
 

Table of Contents
PART II.
 


ITEM 5. 
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S
    COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

 
Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global
Market. The following table sets forth, for the fiscal periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for our common stock as
reported by the Nasdaq Global Market. These prices do not reflect adjustments for retail markups, markdowns or commissions.
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

Quarter
 
High
 
 
Low
 
 
High
 
 
Low
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

First
 
$
9.90
 
 
$
8.10
 
 
$
9.34
 
 
$
6.32
 

Second
 
$
10.29
 
 
$
8.20
 
 
$
11.96
 
 
$
8.60
 

Third
 
$
10.22
 
 
$
6.55
 
 
$
10.19
 
 
$
8.11
 

Fourth
 
$
8.45
 
 
$
6.83
 
 
$
9.80
 
 
$
6.65
 

 
As of February 28, 2012, there were approximately
200 holders of record of common stock and approximately 3,000 beneficial holders. We have never
paid a dividend on our common stock. Dividends are payable at the discretion of the Board of Directors out of funds legally available.
Our board has no current intention of paying dividends.
 
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
Not applicable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

17
 

Table of Contents
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Results of Operations for the Two Years
Ended December 31, 2011: 
 
General Overview 
 
Our products are sold primarily into the electronics
assembly, photovoltaic (solar) cell manufacturing, semiconductor DRAM and Flash memory manufacturing, and semiconductor fabrication
capital equipment markets. We sell products in these markets both to original equipment manufacturers of production equipment and
to end-user customers that produce circuit boards, solar cells and semiconductor wafers and devices. Historically these markets
have been cyclical, and have experienced periods of rapid growth as worldwide capacity is added to support increased consumer
demand for electronic products, and new capital equipment is purchased as a result of technology changes in electronics components,
such as miniaturization, and changing production requirements. These periods of growth have historically been followed by periods
of excess capacity and reduced capital spending.
 
Our results were favorably impacted in 2006 and
2007 as the worldwide demand for cell phones, smart phones, laptops and other consumer electronics remained strong, driving the
need for increased production of printed circuit boards and memory modules, and thereby increasing demand for our electronic assembly
and semiconductor products. After peaking in the third quarter of 2007, our revenue declined sequentially each quarter through
the first quarter of 2009, as our results were negatively impacted by reduced levels of capital spending for electronics manufacturing
capacity brought about by the deepening weakness in the global economy. New orders dropped off sharply late in the fourth quarter
of 2008 as the global economy fell into a severe recession, and our results for 2009 were adversely affected by the ongoing weakness
in the global electronics market.
 
The global electronics market strengthened significantly
in 2010. Our sales benefited in 2010 as pent-up demand, an improving economy, coupled with new product introductions led to significantly
increased sales of alignment sensors and our stand-alone solder paste inspection (SPI) and automated optical inspection (AOI) systems.
 
Our results in 2011 have been driven by strong
sales of our stand-alone inspection system products, particularly our new family of QX500 AOI system products. Sales of AOI systems
climbed over 100% to a record $15.7 million from $7.2 million in 2010. Our QX500 sales were paced by substantial orders from several
of the industry’s largest original design manufacturers (ODMs) in Asia, who deployed this new-generation technology on both
new and existing production lines. Reflecting the strong sales of our AOI technologies, CyberOptics’ total inspection system
revenues hit a new record of $33.3 million in 2011. We posted lower sales of SMT alignment sensors in 2011 due largely to the general
weakening in overall economic conditions. Sales of solar wafer alignment cameras for the photovoltaic cell market were particularly
soft in the latter half of 2011, reflecting the continued impact of aggressive production capacity expansion in the solar market
during 2010 and early 2011. Partly offsetting weakness in sales of SMT alignment sensors were additional sales of SE500 sensors
to German-based Viscom AG, which has integrated CyberOptics’ sensor technology into its SPI platforms.
 
We believe that the first quarter of
2012 will be challenging for the electronics assembly, semiconductor and solar markets. Although we expect that our system
sales may grow  in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 compared to sales in 201l, we expect that sales of SMT sensors will
remain soft, while sales of solar sensors, which accounted for $1.6 million of revenue in the first quarter of 2011, will
be virtually nil. We ended 2011 with an order backlog of $4.9 million, compared to $6.3 million at the end of the third
quarter. Given these factors, we anticipate earnings at or slightly above break-even in the first quarter ending March 31,
2012. We believe our performance will strengthen as the year progresses, reflecting what we believe will be continued
demand for inspection systems, the introduction of new products, and a rebound in sales of solar sensors later in the year.
The second and third quarters also tend to mark the peak buying periods for Asian ODM customers. As a result, we are
forecasting moderately improved sales and earnings for full-year fiscal 2012. In all, we believe our strategic emphasis on
inspection systems and initiatives aimed at broadening our market reach will enable CyberOptics to report another growth year
in 2012. Our current markets are cyclical. To a certain extent, our future growth is dependent on our ability to gain share
in our current markets and to identify, focus on and achieve success in new markets. Nevertheless, our ability to achieve our
forecast and to implement our strategy effectively is subject to numerous uncertainties and risks, including the risks
identified in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful.
 

18
 

Table of Contents
Segment Results 
 
Our business consists of two operating segments,
the electronic assembly and semiconductor segments. In the electronic assembly segment we design, manufacture and sell optical
process control sensors and inspection systems for the electronic assembly and photovoltaic (solar) cell equipment markets. In
the semiconductor segment we design, manufacture and sell optical and other process control sensors and related equipment for the
semiconductor capital equipment market. Segment information follows:
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

(In thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Electronic assembly
 
$
54,147
 
 
$
50,967
 
 
$
23,736
 

Semiconductor
 
 
6,940
 
 
 
5,984
 
 
 
3,330
 

Total
 
$
61,087
 
 
$
56,951
 
 
$
27,066
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Gross margin:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Electronic assembly
 
$
23,151
 
 
$
20,757
 
 
$
7,061
 

Semiconductor
 
 
4,902
 
 
 
4,205
 
 
 
2,144
 

Total
 
$
28,053
 
 
$
24,962
 
 
$
9,205
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Operating expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Electronic assembly
 
$
19,404
 
 
$
18,643
 
 
$
17,772
 

Semiconductor
 
 
2,961
 
 
 
2,658
 
 
 
2,668
 

Total
 
$
22,365
 
 
$
21,301
 
 
$
20,440
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income (loss) from operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Electronic assembly
 
$
3,747
 
 
$
2,114
 
 
$
(10,711
)

Semiconductor
 
 
1,941
 
 
 
1,547
 
 
 
(524
)

Total income (loss) from operations
 
$
5,688
 
 
$
3,661
 
 
$
(11,235
)

Interest income and other
 
 
39
 
 
 
268
 
 
 
539
 

Income (loss) before income taxes
 
$
5,727
 
 
$
3,929
 
 
$
(10,696
)

 
Revenues 
 
Our revenues increased by
7% to $61.1 million in 2011 from $57.0 million in 2010 and increased by 110% in 2010 from $27.1 million in 2009. The following
table sets forth, for the years indicated, revenues by product line (in thousands):
 


 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

Electronic Assembly
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Alignment Sensors
 
$
20,844
 
 
$
25,537
 
 
$
8,428
 

SMT Inspection Systems
 
 
33,303
 
 
 
25,430
 
 
 
15,308
 

Total Electronic Assembly
 
 
54,147
 
 
 
50,967
 
 
 
23,736
 

Semiconductor
 
 
6,940
 
 
 
5,984
 
 
 
3,330
 

Total
 
$
61,087
 
 
$
56,951
 
 
$
27,066
 

 
Electronic Assembly
 
Revenue from sales of alignment
sensors decreased by $4.7 million or 18% in 2011, down from $25.5 million in 2010. Revenue from sales of our SMT inspection system
products increased by $7.9 million or 31% in 2011, up from $25.4 million in 2010. Revenue from sales of our alignment sensors increased
by 203% to $25.5 million in 2010, up from $8.4 million in 2009. Revenue from sales of our stand-alone SMT inspection system products
increased by 66% or $10.1 million to $25.4 million in 2010, up from $15.3 million in 2009.
 

19
 

Table of Contents
Sales of non-solar SMT alignment sensors decreased
by $4.4 million or 20% to $17.7 million in 2011, resulting largely from the general weakening in overall economic conditions and
a challenging comparison with 2010, when sales of capital equipment for printed circuit board production benefited from pent-up
demand as the global economy was emerging from the deep recession of 2009. Sales of solar wafer alignment cameras for the photovoltaic
cell market, while up $300,000 or 17% in 2011 to $2.1 million, were particularly soft in the last six months of 2011, reflecting
the continued impact of aggressive production capacity expansion in the solar market during 2010 and early 2011.
 
In March 2011, we entered into an OEM agreement
with German-based Viscom AG, under which we integrated our SE500 sensor technology into Viscom’s SPI platforms. 
We realized the initial sales of our SE500 SPI sensors to Viscom AG in the second quarter of 2011. We believe Viscom’s
new platform has enjoyed a strong market acceptance, resulting in additional orders for our SE500 sensors that we anticipate will
increase in future periods. This new OEM partnership has the potential to make a significant contribution to our profitability
over the next few years.
 
Revenue from sales of our stand-alone SMT inspection
system products increased by $7.9 million or 31% in 2011, up from $25.4 million in 2010. The revenue increase was driven
by favorable market acceptance and significantly higher sales of our family of QX500 AOI system products. Sales of AOI systems
climbed over 100% to a record $15.7 million from $7.2 million in 2010. Our QX500 sales were paced by substantial orders from several
of the industry’s largest ODMs in Asia, who deployed this new-generation technology on both new and existing production lines.
Featuring what we believe are the fastest AOI inspection times currently available, the QX500 family is based upon a cost-reduced
platform that we believe exceeds the performance metrics of competitors’ systems. We believe the QX500 family of products
will continue to receive favorable market acceptance, particularly with ODMs, where we have a large, established installed base
of SPI systems and where the fast inspection times of the QX500 are required. Increased sales of AOI systems in 2011 were offset
slightly by a small reduction in sales of our SPI systems. Sales of SPI systems declined by $600,000 or 4% to $15.8 million in
2011, from $16.4 million in 2010. We believe that the ongoing introduction of new system products addressing different tiers of
the market will strengthen our competitive position in the inspection market. For example, we have recently introduced two new
inspection system products: a lower-end AOI tabletop system and a higher-performance SPI system based upon a newly developed dual
illumination sensor.
 
The global recession caused severe weakness and
disruption in our electronics markets starting late in 2008 and throughout all of 2009, resulting in very low levels of revenue
in 2009 from both our alignment sensors and stand-alone SMT inspection system products. The global electronics market strengthened
in 2010, returning to more normalized levels of equipment purchases and production capacity additions. We believe that improved
market conditions, combined with favorable market acceptance of the new products we have recently introduced, resulted in the higher
revenue levels in 2010 compared to the same periods of 2009. Our revenue in 2010 benefited from initial shipment of solar wafer
alignment cameras to DEK, an equipment manufacturer for the photovoltaic cell market. Sales of our SE500, SE350 and SE300 Ultra
SPI systems increased by over 100% to $16.4 million in 2010 from $8.1 million in 2009. Our sales of QX500 and Flex Ultra AOI system
products increased by 26% to $7.2 million in 2010, up from $5.7 million in 2009. Sales of our inspection system products were negatively
impacted in 2009 by the severe global economic recession.
 
We believe that ongoing introduction of new system
products will continue to strengthen our competitive position in the inspection market. Unlike revenue from our alignment sensors,
which is closely tied to the need for added production capacity for printed circuit boards, a portion of our stand-alone SMT systems
revenue is derived from the retro-fit of existing production lines as companies seek to improve their production yields, thereby
reducing manufacturing costs. We believe that these new products, and technology trends toward smaller components and increased
production speeds, will contribute to increased demand and higher revenue in 2012.
 
Export revenue from alignment and OEM inspection
sensors and stand-alone SMT inspection systems totaled $48.8 million or 90% of electronic assembly revenue in 2011, compared to
$46.7 million or 92% of electronic assembly revenue in 2010. Sales to international customers continue to be significant, as manufacturing
of electronic components has migrated offshore, particularly to China and other areas of Asia.
 
Semiconductor 
 
Revenues from sales of our semiconductor products
increased by 16% or $1.0 million to $6.9 million in 2011. Revenues from sales of semiconductor products increased by 80% or $2.7
million to $6.0 million in 2010, up from $3.3 million in 2009. The revenue increase in both years was due to continuing favorable
market acceptance of our WaferSense™ products. Sales of these products increased by $1.3 million or 37% to $4.7 million in
2011. WaferSense revenue increased by over 100% to $3.4 million in 2010, from $1.6 million in 2009. The increase in revenue in
2010 was also due to improving conditions in the market for semiconductor fabrication equipment resulting from the better economic
environment.
 

20
 

Table of Contents
Our wafer mapper and frame grabber products are
relatively mature. We anticipate that future growth in our semiconductor revenues, exclusive of changes related to capital procurement
cycles, will come from our WaferSense™ products, a family of wireless, wafer-like precision measurement tools for in-situ
setup, calibration and process optimization in semiconductor processing equipment. We expect to introduce a new WaferSense™
particle sensor in 2012, and anticipate introducing additional WaferSense™ products in later periods.
 
Export revenue from semiconductor products totaled
$3.3 million or 48% of revenue in 2011, compared to $2.1 million or 35% of revenue in 2010. We anticipate that the percentage of
export revenue will continue to grow in the future as a higher proportion of our WaferSense™ sales come from international
customers compared to our other semiconductor products.
 
Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin
 
Electronic
Assembly
Cost of revenue for our electronic assembly segment
increased by $786,000 or 3% to $31.0 million in 2011, after increasing by 81% to $30.2 million in 2010. The increase in cost of
revenue in both periods was due to the higher level of sales. Electronic assembly sales increased 6% in 2011 and 115% in 2010.
Cost of revenue items fluctuating with the level of sales include raw materials, direct labor and some factory overhead costs.
 
Gross margin as a percentage of electronic assembly
sales was 43% in 2011, compared to 41% in 2010. The improvement in gross margin percentage in 2011, compared to 2010, was due to
increased sales of higher margin products, including the large increase in sales of our QX500 family of AOI systems and SE500 sensors
to Viscom, as well as the favorable impact of cost reduction programs across all of our electronic assembly products.
 
Gross margin as a percentage of electronic assembly
sales was 41% in 2010, compared to 30% in 2009. The improvement in gross margin percentage in 2010 was due to significantly increased
sales of higher margin alignment sensors, better manufacturing leverage resulting from substantially higher production volumes
over which to spread fixed manufacturing overhead costs (due to the much higher sales in 2010 compared to 2009), the favorable
impact of cost reduction programs and our new cost reduced SMT inspection system products.
 
The electronic assembly market is highly price
competitive, resulting in continual pressure on our gross margins. We compensate for pricing pressure by introducing new products
with more features and improved performance and through manufacturing cost reduction programs. For example, we believe our next-generation
QX500 AOI system products combines a reduction in cost with enhanced performance. Other recently introduced products including
our solar wafer alignment camera, embedded process verification (EPV) technology, the embedded solder paste inspection solution
we developed for DEK, and the SE500 sensor we sell to Viscom, have more favorable margins than our existing products.
 
Semiconductor

 
Cost of revenue for our semiconductor segment
increased by $259,000 or 15% to $2.0 million in 2011, after increasing by $593,000 or 50% to $1.8 million in 2010. The increase
in cost of revenue in both 2011 and 2010 was due to the higher level of sales. Semiconductor sales increased 16% in 2011 and 80%
in 2010.
 
Gross margin as a percentage of semiconductor
sales increased to 71% in 2011 from 70% in 2010 and 64% in 2009. The gross margin benefit from higher WaferSense sales in 2011
was mostly offset by an increase in scrap charges, resulting in the one percentage point improvement in gross margin.
 
The gross margin improvement as a percentage
of semiconductor sales in 2010 was due to the cost benefit from consolidation of manufacturing for our semiconductor products into
our Minneapolis, Minnesota headquarters, increased sales of higher margin WaferSense™ products and improved manufacturing
leverage, resulting from higher production volumes over which to spread fixed manufacturing overhead costs.
 
Operating Expenses 
 
We believe continued investment in research and
development of new products, coupled with continued investment in and development of our sales channel is critical to future growth
and profitability. We historically have maintained research and development and sales and marketing expenses at relatively high
levels, even during periods of recession and downturn in our electronic assembly and semiconductor capital equipment markets, as
we continue to fund development of important new products, and continue to invest in our sales channels and develop new sales territories.
 

21
 

Table of Contents
Electronic Assembly 
 
Research and development expenses for our electronic
assembly segment were $6.6 million or 12% of revenue in 2011, $6.3 million or 12% of revenue in 2010, and $6.0 million or 25% of
revenue in 2009.
 
The 5% increase in research and development expenses
in 2011 resulted from increased inspection system development cost in Singapore due to the weakened United States dollar, higher
recruitment costs, along with additional wages and benefits due to annual pay increases and headcount additions, offset in part
by lower project costs for proto-types and consulting. Research and development expenses increased 5% in 2010 compared to 2009.
In 2010 we restored pay for our employees to levels prior to a 2009 pay cut implemented in response to the severe recession. We
also incurred higher costs for proto-type materials related to new product development and added several new employees to assist
with ongoing development efforts.
 
Our research and development efforts in 2011
were focused on new products, including a new dual illumination sensor for our SE500 platform providing enhanced solder paste measurement
performance and repeatability, a new off-line tabletop AOI system, our 2D inspection technology based on our strobe inspection
module (SIM) for both stand-alone and embedded inspection solutions, and next generation SMT alignment sensors. We expect research
and development costs to increase further in 2012, as development continues on important new products including next generation
stand-alone AOI and SPI inspection systems, embedded inspection solutions and next generation SMT alignment sensors.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
for our electronic assembly segment were $12.7 million or 24% of revenue in 2011, $12.3 million or 24% of revenue in 2010 and $11.4
million or 48% of revenue in 2009.
 
The slight increase in selling, general and administrative
expense in 2011 was due to additional business development activities and the impact of the weakening United States dollar on the
recorded value of costs attributable to our foreign sales offices, was mostly offset by a reduction in commissions for third party
sales representatives, as more sales were sold through distribution channels, and a $65,000 reduction in our allowance for doubtful
accounts. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010 reflect higher sales and marketing costs, including
commissions for third party sales representatives resulting from higher levels of SMT inspection system sales, higher incentive
compensation costs due, in part, to our improved financial performance, partially offset by lower expense for doubtful accounts.
Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2009 include an $800,000 provision for doubtful accounts related to a key distributor
of our SMT inspection system products. The distributor remains in business, and is committed to paying us the amount owed. The
$60,000 reduction in our allowance for doubtful accounts in 2011 was due to partial collection of this receivable.
 
Semiconductor 
 
Research and development
expenses for our semiconductor segment were $1.2 million or 17% of revenue in 2011, $1.1 million or 18% of revenue in 2010 and
$1.1 million or 33% of revenue in 2009. Research and development expenses were higher in 2011 due to increased expenditures for
proto-types, certification fees and consulting, reflecting our ongoing investment in the WaferSense™ product line, particularly
the new particle sensor we expect to introduce in 2012.   
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses
for our semiconductor segment were $1.7 million or 25% of revenue in 2011, $1.5 million or 25% of revenue in 2010 and $1.4 million
or 41% of revenue in 2009. The increase in expense in 2011 reflects the 16% overall increase in semiconductor sales and higher
WaferSense™ sales through third party sales representatives in 2011, resulting in more third party commission expense. The
increase in 2010 reflects higher third party commission payments attributable to the higher level of sales.
 
Interest Income and Other
 
Interest income and other includes interest earned
on investments, realized gains and losses from sales of investments and gains and losses associated with foreign currency transactions
and foreign exchange forward contracts used to hedge against the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on intercompany financing
transactions associated with our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore.
 
Interest income and other decreased in 2011 and
2010 due to lower interest income resulting from lower rates of interest earned on invested funds. Fluctuations in the level of
gains and losses associated with foreign currency transactions and foreign exchange forward contracts can also impact the level
of interest income and other reported in any given period. We incurred foreign currency transaction gains, net of underlying currency
hedges of $67,000 in 2011, compared to foreign currency transaction gains, net of underlying currency hedges, of $106,000 in 2010.
 

22
 

Table of Contents
Income Taxes
 
We recorded income tax expense of $1.4 million
in 2011 reflecting an effective tax rate of 24%, compared to income tax expense of $794,000 in 2010 reflecting an effective tax
rate of 20%. Our effective tax rate for 2011 and 2010 reflects the benefit of having a significant portion of our operations in
Singapore where corporate income tax rates are substantially lower than the United States. Fluctuations in the level of income
in the United States and Singapore will have an impact on our effective tax rate in any given annual period. Lower tax rates in
foreign jurisdictions favorably impacted our 2011 income tax rate by 11.1% and our 2010 income tax rate by 11.5%. Other items favorably
impacting our income tax rate in 2011 and 2010 include benefits from the federal research and experimentation (R&D) tax credit
and the domestic manufacturer’s production incentive deduction. An increase in our valuation allowance for state R&D
tax credits and net operating loss carry forwards negatively impacted our effective tax rate by 1.4% in 2011.
 
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal
jurisdiction, and various state and foreign jurisdictions. During 2009, the Internal Revenue Service completed audits of our 2006
and 2007 federal income tax returns. Our settlement with the Internal Revenue Service did not have a material impact on our financial
condition. Due to the carryback of our 2009 federal taxable loss to taxable years 2004 - 2007, the Internal Revenue Service could
potentially examine our federal income tax returns for those years. The statute of limitations for examination of these returns
had previously expired. We received a federal income tax refund in 2010 of approximately $2.4 million from carry-back of our 2009
federal taxable loss. Our 2010 federal income tax return is currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service. We are not
able to reasonably estimate the timing of any potential payments that may result from this audit. We are no longer subject to state
and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2007.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
 
Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $5.4
million in 2011 due to cash provided by operating activities of $9.2 million, proceeds from exercise of stock options and issuance
of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan of $205,000, offset in part by purchases of marketable securities, net of
maturities and sales, of $3.1 million, and capital expenditures of $900,000. Our cash and cash equivalents fluctuate in part because
of maturities of marketable securities, and investment of cash balances in marketable securities, or from other sources of cash,
in addition to marketable securities. Accordingly, we believe the combined balances of cash and marketable securities provide a
more reliable indication of our available liquidity. Combined balances of cash and marketable securities increased to $30.5 million
as of December 31, 2011, up from $22.1 million as of December 31, 2010.
 
Operating activities provided $9.2 million of
cash in 2011. Cash provided by operations included net income of $4.4 million, which included non-cash expenses totaling $2.9 million
for depreciation and amortization, provision for doubtful accounts, deferred taxes, non-cash gains and losses from foreign currency
transactions and stock compensation expenses.
 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities providing
cash included decreases in inventory of $2.9 million and increases in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $638,000. Changes
in operating assets and liabilities using cash included increases in accounts receivable of $549,000 and decreases in accounts
payable of $1.1 million. Better sales forecasting and inventory management resulted in lower inventory purchases in the latter
half of 2011 and a corresponding reduction in inventory and accounts payable levels. Accrued expenses and other liabilities increased
due to higher warranty, commission and incentive compensation accruals, resulting from higher sales levels and improved operating
results. Accounts receivable were higher due to a slight slowdown in our collection efficiency.
 
Operating activities generated $1.8 million of
cash in 2010. Cash provided by operations included net income of $3.1 million, which included non-cash expenses totaling $2.8 million
for depreciation and amortization, provision for doubtful accounts, deferred taxes, non-cash gains and losses from foreign currency
transactions and stock compensation costs. Changes in operating assets and liabilities using cash included increases in accounts
receivable of $2.9 million and inventories of $6.6 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities providing cash included
increases in accounts payable of $1.5 million, accrued expenses and other liabilities of $1.1 million, advance customer payments
of $495,000 and decreases in income tax refunds receivable of $2.1 million. The increase in accounts receivable and advance customer
payments was due to higher sales levels in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. Inventories were
higher due to increased material purchases to support the higher level of sales expected in the second half of 2010 and early in
2011. The increase in accounts payable resulted from increased material purchases and a conscious effort on our part to extend
the timing of vendor payments. Accrued expenses and other liabilities increased due to higher warranty, commission and incentive
compensation accruals, resulting from higher sales levels and improved operating results. Income tax refunds receivable decreased
due to receipt of our anticipated tax refund resulting from carryback of our 2009 net operating loss to prior periods.
 

23
 

Table of Contents
Investing activities used $4.0 million of cash
in 2011, compared to providing $2.3 million of cash in 2010. Changes in the level of investment in marketable securities, resulting
from the purchases, sales and maturities of those securities used $3.1 million of cash in 2011 and provided $3.6 million of cash
in 2010. We used $900,000 of cash in 2011 and $1.3 million of cash in 2010 for the purchase of fixed assets and capitalized patent
costs.
 
Financing activities provided $205,000 of cash
in 2011, compared to providing $207,000 of cash in 2010, all from the exercise of employee stock options and issuance of common
stock under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
 
At December 31, 2011, we did not have any relationships
with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose
entities, which would have been established for the purpose of establishing off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually
narrow or limited purposes. We do not believe we are exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise
if we had engaged in such relationships.
 
Except for our obligations under facilities leases
and purchase contracts, we had no material commitments for expenditures as of December 31, 2011. Purchase commitments for inventory
can vary based on the volume of revenue and resulting inventory requirements. While there were no material commitments, we evaluate
investment opportunities that come to our attention and could make a significant commitment in the future.
 
The following summarizes our contractual obligations
at December 31, 2011, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods.
 


December 31, 2011 (in 000’s)
 
Total
 
 
Less Than  1 Year
 
 
1 – 4 Years
 
 
After 4 Years
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Contractual Obligations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Non-cancelable operating lease obligations
 
$
3,842
 
 
$
866
 
 
$
1,531
 
 
$
1,445
 

Purchase obligations
 
 
9,417
 
 
 
9,417
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Reserve for income taxes
 
 
840
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
840
 
 
 
—
 

Total contractual cash obligations
 
$
14,099
 
 
$
10,283
 
 
$
2,371
 
 
$
1,445
 

 
We lease a 50,724 square foot mixed office
and warehouse facility built to our specifications in Golden Valley, Minnesota, which functions as our corporate headquarters
and primary manufacturing facility for our sensor products, including the sensors used in our stand-alone system products and
our semiconductor products. In March 2011, we finalized a lease amendment for the facility that became effective July 1,
2011. The amendment provides that we will lease the current facility through December 31, 2018. The amendment
contains escalation clauses and two renewal options of three years each. Our prior lease for the facility expired on June 30,
2011. In connection with the lease amendment, we reduced the size of the facility by 9,943 square feet. We estimate a
reduction in average annual rental expense over the term of the new lease amendment of approximately $270,000 per year.
 
Purchase obligations are defined as agreements
to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding. Included in the purchase obligations category above are
obligations related to purchase orders for inventory purchases under our standard terms and conditions and under negotiated agreements
with vendors and utilities. We expect to receive consideration (products or services) for these purchase obligations. The purchase
obligation amounts do not represent all anticipated purchases in the future, but represent only those items for which we are contractually
obligated. The majority of our products and services are purchased as needed, with no contractual commitment. Consequently, these
amounts will not provide a reliable indicator of our expected future cash outflows on a stand-alone basis.
 
Our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
totaled $30.5 million at December 31, 2011. We believe that on-hand cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, coupled with
anticipated future cash flow from operations, will be adequate to fund our cash flow needs for the foreseeable future, including
contractual obligations discussed above.
 
Related Party Transactions
 
We did not engage in any
related party transactions during the three year period ended December 31, 2011.
 

24
 

Table of Contents
Inflation and Foreign Currency Transactions
 
Changes in our revenues have resulted primarily
because of changes in the level of unit shipments and the relative strength of the worldwide electronics and semiconductor fabrication
capital equipment markets. We believe that inflation has not had a significant effect on our operations.
 
Most of our international export sales are negotiated,
invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars. We manufacture our SMT system products in Singapore and a portion of our raw material purchases
are denominated in Singapore dollars. We also have R&D and sales personnel located in Singapore and sales offices located in
other parts of the world. Although currency fluctuations do not significantly affect our revenue, they can impact our costs and
influence the price competitiveness of our products and the willingness of existing and potential customers to purchase units.
 
We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts
to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies and certain intercompany
financing transactions associated with our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore. These transactions are designated
as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive
income and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The maximum length
of time over which we hedge our exposure to the variability in future cash flows is 12 months and, accordingly, at December 31,
2011, all of our open foreign exchange forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The dollar equivalent gross notional
amount of our foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges at December 31, 2011 was approximately $11.0 million.
 
At December 31, 2011, our open foreign exchange
forward contracts were in an unrealized loss position equal to $493,000 on a pre-tax basis due to a significant strengthening of
the U.S. dollar in relation to the Singapore dollar in the later part of 2011. If the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and
the Singapore dollar were to remain unchanged over the next twelve months, we would realize this loss through our statement of
operations. However, because we do not fully hedge all of our future anticipated cash flows in Singapore dollars, the portion of
our costs that we do not hedge would be lower in relation to recent quarters. If the U.S. dollar were to weaken in future periods
in relation to the Singapore dollar, the unrealized loss on our open foreign exchange forward contracts would be reduced, but costs
that are not hedged would increase. For example, the unrealized pre-tax loss on our open foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding
as of January 30, 2012 had been reduced to approximately $139,000 due to a weaker U.S. dollar. The ultimate impact of any fluctuation
in the relationship between the U.S. dollar and Singapore dollar is dependent on the level of Singapore denominated cash flows
in future periods.
 
Recent Accounting Developments 
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued amended disclosure
requirements for the presentation of comprehensive income (ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of
Comprehensive Income). The amended guidance eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
as part of the statement of changes in equity. Under the amended guidance, all changes in OCI are to be presented either in a single
continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. The FASB subsequently met
on October 21, 2011 and decided that the specific requirement to present items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income
to net income alongside their respective components of net income and other comprehensive income will be deferred. The remaining
changes are effective January 1, 2012. Early application is permitted. There will be no impact to the consolidated financial results
as the amendments relate only to changes in financial statement presentation.
 
 
 
 
 

25
 

Table of Contents
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
Our discussion and analysis of financial condition
and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates
and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate these estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad
debts, warranty obligations, inventory valuation, intangible assets, and income taxes. We base these estimates on historical experience
and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for
making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual
results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The estimates and judgments that we believe
have the most effect on our reported financial position and results of operations are as follows:
 
Revenue Recognition.
 
Revenue from all customers, including distributors,
is recognized when all significant contractual obligations have been satisfied and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably
assured. Generally, revenues are recognized upon shipment under FOB shipping point terms, and include shipping and handling costs.
Estimated returns and warranty costs are recorded at the time of sale. Sales of some surface mount technology (SMT) system products
may require customer acceptance due to performance or other acceptance criteria included in the terms of sale. For these SMT product
sales, revenue is recognized at the time of customer acceptance. Our multiple deliverable arrangements typically include the sale
of an SMT inspection system, installation and training, and in some cases, an extended warranty. Revenue from installation and
training and extended warranty are recognized as the services are provided.
 
When a sale involves multiple elements, revenue
is allocated to each respective element at inception of an arrangement using the relative selling price method. Selling price is
determined based on a selling price hierarchy, consisting of vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), third party evidence or
estimated selling price. Management’s best estimate of the selling price of an SMT machine is based on the cost build-up
of the product and a reasonable margin based on geographic location and market conditions. We used VSOE to establish fair value
for extended warranty, installation and training services. Costs related to products delivered are recognized in the period revenue
is recognized. Cost of goods sold consists primarily of direct labor, manufacturing overhead, raw materials and components and
excludes amortization of intangible assets.
 
Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts.
 
We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts
for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In making the determination of the
appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts, we consider specific accounts, historical write-offs, changes in customer relationships
and credit worthiness and concentrations of credit risk. Specific accounts receivable are written-off once a determination is made
that the account is uncollectible. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment
of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required. The allowance for doubtful accounts is $940,000 at December
31, 2011 and $1,005,000 as of December 31, 2010.
 
Allowance for Warranty
Expenses.
 
We provide for the estimated cost of product
warranties at the time revenue is recognized. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively
monitoring and evaluating the quality of component suppliers, warranty obligations are affected by product failure rates, material
usage and service delivery costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage
or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required. The allowance
for warranties was $985,000 at December 31, 2011 and $702,000 at December 31, 2010.
 
Reserve for Inventory
Obsolescence.
 
We write down inventory for estimated obsolescence
or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions
about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected, or if in the future
we decide to discontinue sales and marketing of any of our products, additional inventory write-downs may be required. We had a
reserve for obsolete and excess inventory of $592,000 at December 31, 2011 and $487,000 at December 31, 2010.
 

26
 

Table of Contents
Valuation of Intangible
and Long-Lived Assets.
 
We assess the impairment of identifiable intangible
assets, long lived assets and related goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not
be recoverable. In addition, goodwill is tested for impairment annually. Factors we consider important, which could trigger an
impairment review include the following:
 

•Significant under-performance relative to expected historical
or projected future operating results.


•Significant changes in the manner of our use of the
acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business.


•Significant negative industry or economic trends.


•Significant decline in our stock price for a sustained
period; and our market capitalization relative to net book value.


•For intangible assets and long-lived assets, if the
carrying value of the asset exceeds the undiscounted cash flows from such asset.


•For goodwill, if the carrying value of the asset exceeds
the fair value of the reporting unit.

 
When we determine that the carrying value of
intangibles, long-lived assets and related goodwill may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above
indicators of impairment, we measure any potential impairment based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount
rate that we believe is commensurate with the risk inherent in our current business model. Annually, we also test for impairment
of goodwill for each of our reporting units by estimating their fair value, utilizing a discounted cash flow methodology to determine
a reasonable valuation. The evaluation of asset impairment requires us to make assumptions about future cash flows over the life
of the asset being evaluated. These assumptions require significant judgment and actual results may differ from assumed or estimated
amounts.
 
Our remaining goodwill at December 31, 2011 and
2010 in the amount of $569,000 relates to our semiconductor reporting unit. Our recent analyses performed in the fourth quarters
of 2011 and 2010 indicate that this goodwill is not impaired. However, our conclusion could change in the future, if our assumptions
about future economic conditions, revenue growth or profitability change. Any resulting impairment charge could have a material
effect on our financial position and results of operations in the future.
 
Income Taxes.
 
Significant judgment
is required in determining worldwide income tax expense based upon tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We
have established reserves for uncertain tax positions by applying the “more likely than not “threshold (i.e.,
a likelihood of occurrence greater than fifty percent). The recognition threshold is met when an entity concludes that a tax position,
based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority.
Those tax positions failing to qualify for initial recognition are recognized in the first interim period in which they meet the
more likely than not standard, or are resolved through negotiation or litigation with the taxing authority, or upon expiration
of the statute of limitations. De-recognition of a tax position that was previously recognized occurs when an entity subsequently
determines that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than not threshold of being sustained. All
tax positions are analyzed periodically and adjustments are made as events occur that warrant modification, such as the completion
of audits or the expiration of statutes of limitations, which may result in future charges or credits to income tax expense. 
 
 
As part of the process
of preparing consolidated financial statements, management is required to estimate income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in
which we operate. This process involves estimating the current tax liability, as well as assessing temporary differences arising
from the different treatment of items for financial statement and tax purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets
and liabilities, which are recorded on our balance sheet.
 
We currently have significant deferred tax assets
as a result of temporary differences between taxable income on our tax returns and U.S. GAAP income, research and development tax
credit carry forwards and foreign net operating loss carry forwards. A deferred tax asset generally represents future tax benefits
to be received when temporary differences previously reported in our financial statements become deductible for income tax purposes,
or when net operating loss carry forwards or credits are applied against future taxable income, or when tax credit carry forwards
are utilized on our tax returns. We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance
based on the guidance provided in current financial accounting standards.
 
Significant judgment is required in determining
the realizability of our deferred tax assets. The assessment of whether valuation allowances are required considers, among other
matters, the nature, frequency and severity of any current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration
of statutory carry forward periods, our experience with loss carry forwards not expiring unused and tax planning alternatives.
 


27
 

Table of Contents
In analyzing the need for valuation allowances,
we first considered our history of cumulative losses for U.S. income tax purposes over the past three years and also gave significant
consideration to our results for U.S. income tax purposes over the past five years, as the economic cycles in our industry have
tended to average five years in length (from peak to trough). We also considered our forecasts of future profitability, the duration
of statutory carry forward periods and tax planning alternatives. Finally, we considered the length and severity of the recent
global economic crisis, the impact that it had on our operating results and our expectation for continued rebound given the current
recovery in the global economy and more specifically in our markets. After considering all of these factors, and after considering
other significant positive evidence, we concluded that a valuation allowance with respect to substantially all of our U.S. based
deferred tax assets was not required at December 31, 2011.
 
Our results in both 2008 and 2009 were negatively
impacted by the severe global economic recession, and we incurred a loss in the United States in both 2008 and 2009, where most
of our net deferred tax assets are recorded. We recorded a significant profit in both 2011 and 2010. Achievement of ongoing profitability
in the United States will be a significant factor in determining our continuing ability to carry these deferred tax assets without
recording a valuation allowance. The global electronics market has significantly strengthened since 2009. We are seeing ongoing
demand from manufacturers of SMT assembly equipment who purchase our alignment sensor products, and for our stand-alone SPI and
AOI systems. We believe that improved market conditions, the efficiencies in operations we have implemented, and the new products
we have introduced and anticipate introducing in the next year, will lead to improved operating results and continued profitability
in future periods. If future results from our operations are less than projected, a valuation allowance may be required against
virtually all of our deferred tax assets, which could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which
it is recorded.
 
Deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011 include
net operating loss carry forwards incurred in the UK by CyberOptics Ltd., which was acquired in 1999. The utilization of these
net operating loss carry forwards is dependent on CyberOptics Ltd.’s ability to generate sufficient UK taxable income during
the carry forward period.
 
The valuation allowances of $833,000 at December
31, 2011 and $732,000 at December 31, 2010 are needed for various long-term state tax credit carry forwards, state operating loss
carry forwards and capital losses for which recovery is not deemed to be more likely than not. The valuation allowance was increased
in 2011 for additional state tax credit and net operating loss carry forwards that failed to satisfy the more likely than not criteria
for recovery.
 
Derivatives and Hedging.
 
We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts
to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies and certain intercompany
financing transactions associated with our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore. These transactions are designated
as cash flow hedges and are recorded in the accompanying balance sheet at fair value. The effective portion of the gain or loss
on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period during
which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness
or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings. The maximum length of time
over which we hedge our exposure to the variability in future cash flows is 12 months. Accordingly, at December 31, 2011 and December
31, 2010, all of our open foreign exchange forward contracts had maturities of one year or less. The dollar equivalent gross notional
amount of our foreign exchange forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges was approximately $11.0 million at December 31,
2011 and $1.0 million at December 31, 2010.
 
We estimate hedge ineffectiveness on a quarterly
basis by considering the difference between the prices of a hypothetical forward contract maturing on the last day of a given month,
to the prices of a series of hypothetically perfect daily forward contracts. Hedge ineffectiveness and the amounts excluded from
effectiveness testing recognized in income on cash flow hedges were not material for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts representing a loss in the amount of $493,000 was
recorded in accrued expenses in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts
and their impact on accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2010 was inconsequential.
 
The fair value for our foreign exchange forward
contracts is based on foreign currency spot and forward rates obtained from reputable financial institutions with resulting valuations
periodically validated by obtaining foreign currency spot rates and forward quotes from other industry standard sources or third
party or counterparty quotes.
 
 

28
 

Table of Contents
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION 
 


  
As of December 31, 

(In thousands, except share information) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

ASSETS 
    
   

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$13,791  
$8,427 

Marketable securities 
 10,640  
 6,384 

Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts of $940 at December 31, 2011 and $1,005 at December 31, 2010 
 11,909  
 11,296 

Inventories 
 11,052  
 14,215 

Income tax refunds receivable 
 196  
 380 

Other current assets 
 1,238  
 1,232 

Deferred tax assets, net 
 2,518  
 2,317 

Total current assets 
 51,344  
 44,251 

  
    
   

Marketable securities, long-term 
 6,106  
 7,289 

Equipment and leasehold improvements, net 
 1,400  
 1,896 

Intangible and other assets, net 
 230  
 435 

Goodwill 
 569  
 569 

Other assets 
 137  
 173 

Deferred tax assets, net 
 3,130  
 3,621 

Total assets 
$62,916  
$58,234 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
    
   

  
    
   

Accounts payable 
$4,081  
$5,206 

Advance customer payments 
 655  
 830 

Accrued expenses 
 3,657  
 2,873 

Total current liabilities 
 8,393  
 8,909 

  
    
   

Deferred rent 
 327  
 — 

Extended warranty liability 
 353  
 322 

Deferred tax liability 
 34  
 — 

Reserve for income taxes 
 840  
 686 

Total liabilities 
 9,947  
 9,917 

  
    
   

Commitments and contingencies (notes 11 and 14) 
    
   

  
    
   

Stockholders’ equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock, no par value, 5,000,000 shares authorized, none outstanding 
 —  
 — 

Common stock, no par value, 25,000,000 shares authorized, 6,933,029 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 6,891,262 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2010 
 30,965  
 30,330 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (926) 
 (586)

Retained earnings 
 22,930  
 18,573 

  
    
   

Total stockholders’ equity 
 52,969  
 48,317 

  
    
   

Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 
$62,916  
$58,234 

 
THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.
 

29
 

Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION 
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands, except per share amounts) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Revenues 
$61,087  
$56,951 

Cost of revenues 
 33,034  
 31,989 

  
    
   

Gross margin 
 28,053  
 24,962 

  
    
   

Research and development expenses 
 7,781  
 7,354 

Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 14,476  
 13,766 

Amortization of intangibles 
 108  
 181 

  
    
   

Income from operations 
 5,688  
 3,661 

  
    
   

Interest income and other 
 39  
 268 

  
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 5,727  
 3,929 

  
    
   

Income tax provision 
 1,370  
 794 

  
    
   

Net income 
$4,357  
$3,135 

  
    
   

  
    
   

Net income per share – Basic 
$.63  
$.46 

Net income per share – Diluted 
$.63  
$.45 

  
    
   

  
    
   

Weighted average shares outstanding – Basic 
 6,906  
 6,861 

Weighted average and common equivalent shares outstanding – Diluted 
 6,952  
 6,907 

 
THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS. 
 

30
 

Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION 
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: 
    
   

Net income 
$4,357  
$3,135 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided (used) by operating activities: 
    
   

Depreciation and amortization 
 1,955  
 2,263 

Provision for doubtful accounts 
 (62) 
 (27)

Deferred income tax provision 
 629  
 331 

Foreign currency transaction gains 
 (68) 
 (129)

Excess tax benefits from equity compensation plans 
 (3) 
 (6)

Stock compensation expense 
 430  
 391 

Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
    
   

Accounts receivable 
 (549) 
 (2,875)

Inventories 
 2,859  
 (6,624)

Income tax refunds receivable 
 184  
 2,105 

Other assets 
 65  
 147 

Accounts payable 
 (1,095) 
 1,456 

Advance customer payments and extended warranty 
 (144) 
 495 

Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 638  
 1,100 

  
    
   

Net cash provided by operating activities 
 9,196  
 1,762 

  
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: 
    
   

Proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale marketable securities 
 10,053  
 16,965 

Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale marketable securities 
 3,175  
 3,241 

Purchases of available-for-sale marketable securities 
 (16,304) 
 (16,572)

Additions to equipment and leasehold improvements 
 (772) 
 (1,109)

Additions to patents 
 (104) 
 (202)

  
    
   

Net cash provided (used) by investing activities 
 (3,952) 
 2,323 

  
    
   

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: 
    
   

Proceeds from exercise of stock options 
 1  
 26 

Excess tax benefits from equity compensation plans 
 3  
 6 

Proceeds from issuance of common stock under Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
 201  
 175 

  
    
   

Net cash provided by financing activities 
 205  
 207 

  
    
   

Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 
 (85) 
 (42)

  
    
   

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 
 5,364  
 4,250 

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents – beginning of year 
 8,427  
 4,177 

  
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents – end of year 
$13,791  
$8,427 

 
THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS. 
 

31
 

Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION
 



  
    
    
Accumulated  
   
  

  
    
    
Other  
   
Total 

  
Common Stock  
Comprehensive   
Retained   
Stockholders’  

 (In
    thousands) 
Shares  
Amount  
Income (Loss)  
Earnings  
Equity 

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2009 
 6,829  
$29,732  
$(768) 
$15,438    
$44,402 

Excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options, net of deferred tax shortfall related to stock options and restricted stock units 
 —  
 6  
 —  
 —  
 6 

Exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units, net of shares exchanged as payment 
 28  
 26  
 —  
 —  
 26 

Share issuances for compensation purposes 
 4  
 38  
 —  
 —  
 38 

Stock compensation 
 —  
 353  
 —  
 —  
 353 

Issuance of common stock under Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
 30  
 175  
 —  
 —  
 175 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
   

Market value adjustments of marketable securities, net of reclassification adjustment 
 —  
 —  
 (121) 
 —  
 (121)

Cumulative translation adjustment 
 —  
 —  
 303  
 —  
 303 

Net income 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 3,135  
 3,135 

Total comprehensive income 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 3,317 

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2010 
 6,891  
$30,330  
$(586) 
$18,573  
$48,317 

Excess tax benefit from exercise of stock options, net of deferred tax shortfall related to stock options and restricted stock units 
 —  
 3  
 —  
 —  
 3 

Exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units, net of shares exchanged as payment 
 13  
 1  
 —  
 —  
 1 

Share issuances for compensation purposes 
 4  
 41  
 —  
 —  
 41 

Stock compensation 
 —  
 389  
 —  
 —  
 389 

Issuance of common stock under Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
 25  
 201  
 —  
 —  
 201 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
   

Market value adjustments of marketable securities, net of reclassification adjustment 
 —  
 —  
 20  
 —  
 20 

Unrealized loss on foreign exchange forward contracts, net of reclassification adjustment 
 —  
 —  
 (323) 
 —  
 (323)

Cumulative translation adjustment 
 —  
 —  
 (37) 
 —  
 (37)

Net income 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 4,357  
 4,357 

Total comprehensive income 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 4,017 

BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 2011 
 6,933  
$30,965  
$(926) 
$22,930  
$52,969 

 
THE ACCOMPANYING NOTES ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS. 
 

32
 

Table of Contents
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION
 
NOTE 1 – BUSINESS DESCRIPTION AND SIGNIFICANT
ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
 
Description of Business
We are a leading global supplier of optical process control sensors and
inspection systems that are used to control the manufacturing process and to ensure the quality of electronic circuit boards manufactured
by our customers using surface mount technology (SMT). We also manufacture and sell sensors that assist with yield improvement
in the photovoltaic cell manufacturing and semiconductor wafer fabrication process.
 
Principles of Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CyberOptics
Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. In these Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, these companies are collectively
referred to as “CyberOptics,” “we,” “us,” or “our.” All significant inter-company
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Use of Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates.
 
Cash Equivalents 
We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with an original maturity
of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of funds maintained in demand deposit accounts, money
market accounts, corporate debt instruments and U.S. government backed obligations. Some cash and cash equivalent balances may
exceed federally insured limits. Cash held in foreign accounts totaled $2,296,000 at December 31, 2011 and $1,046,000 at December
31, 2010.
 
Marketable Securities 
All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and consist
of U.S. government backed obligations, certificates of deposit, corporate debt instruments, asset backed securities or equity securities.
Marketable securities are classified as short-term or long-term in the balance sheet based on their maturity date and expectations
regarding sales.
 
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized
gains and losses reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized. These fair values are primarily
determined using quoted market prices. The carrying amounts of securities, for purposes of computing unrealized gains and losses,
are determined by specific identification. The cost of securities sold is also determined by specific identification.
 
We monitor the carrying value of our investments compared to their fair
value to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary,
an impairment charge related to that specific investment is recorded in current operations.
 
Inventories 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined
using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Appropriate consideration is given to deterioration, obsolescence, and other factors
in evaluating net realizable value. Demonstration inventories are stated at cost less accumulated amortization, generally based
on a 36 month useful life.
 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
Allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained for estimated losses resulting
from the inability of our customers to make required payments. In making the determination of the appropriate allowance for doubtful
accounts, we consider specific accounts, historical write-offs, changes in customer relationships and credit worthiness and concentrations
of credit risk. Specific accounts receivable are written-off once a determination is made that the account is uncollectible.
 
Equipment and Leasehold Improvements 
Equipment and leasehold improvements are stated at cost. Significant additions
or improvements extending asset lives are capitalized, while repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. In progress
costs are capitalized with depreciation beginning when assets are placed in service. Depreciation is recorded using the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the equipment, ranging from three to ten years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated
using the straight-line method over the shorter of the asset useful life or the underlying lease term. Gains or losses on dispositions
are included in current operations.
 

33
 

Table of Contents
Intangible Assets 
Identified intangible assets (excluding goodwill), consisting primarily
of developed technology and trademarks, are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from four to ten years,
based upon their estimated life. The straight-line method of amortization reflects an appropriate allocation of the cost of intangible
assets to earnings in proportion to the economic benefits obtained by us in each reporting period.
 
Intangible assets subject to amortization and other long lived assets are
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
 
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the fair value of
net assets acquired in a business combination. We evaluate the carrying value of goodwill for our reporting units during the fourth
quarter of each year and between annual evaluations if events occur or circumstances change that indicate goodwill might be impaired.
Goodwill is tested by comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, as determined based on their future estimated discounted
cash flows, to the carrying value for each reporting unit. 
 
Patents 
Patents consist of legal and patent registration costs for protection of
our proprietary technology. We amortize patent costs on a straight-line basis over a three year period, based upon their estimated
life.
 
Revenue Recognition 
Revenue from all customers, including distributors, is recognized when all
significant contractual obligations have been satisfied and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally,
revenues are recognized upon shipment under FOB shipping point terms, and include shipping and handling costs. Taxes collected
from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are excluded from revenues. Estimated returns and warranty costs are recorded
at the time of sale. Sales of some surface mount technology (SMT) system products may require customer acceptance due to performance
or other acceptance criteria included in the terms of sale. For these SMT product sales, revenue is recognized at the time of customer
acceptance. Our multiple deliverable arrangements typically include the sale of an SMT inspection system, installation and training,
and in some cases, an extended warranty. Revenue from installation and training and extended warranty are recognized as the services
are provided, typically within one month of shipment in the case of installation and training. Extended warranties are typically
for a second or third year of coverage beyond the basic one year warranty included with all SMT sales.
 
When a sale involves multiple elements, revenue is allocated to each respective
element at inception of an arrangement using the relative selling price method. Selling price is determined based on a selling
price hierarchy, consisting of vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE), third party evidence or estimated selling price. Management’s
best estimate of the selling price of an SMT machine is based on the cost build-up of the product and a reasonable margin based
on geographic location and market conditions. We used VSOE to establish fair value for extended warranty, installation and training
services. Costs related to products delivered are recognized in the period revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold consists primarily
of direct labor, manufacturing overhead, raw materials and components and excludes amortization of intangible assets.
 
Foreign Currency Translation 
Financial position and results of operations of our international subsidiaries
are measured using local currency as their functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these operations are translated at the
exchange rates in effect at each fiscal year-end. Statements of operations accounts are translated at the average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are
included as a cumulative translation adjustment in stockholders’ equity.
 
Foreign Currency Transactions 
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in interest income
and other in the statement of operations. We recognized foreign currency transaction gains, net of underlying currency hedges of
$67,000 in 2011. We recognized foreign currency transaction gains, net of underlying currency hedges, of $106,000 in 2010.
 
Research and Development 
Research and development (R&D) costs, including software development,
are expensed when incurred. Software development costs are required to be expensed until the point that technological feasibility
and proven marketability of the product are established; costs otherwise capitalizable after such point also are expensed because
they are insignificant. All other R&D costs are expensed as incurred. R&D expenses consist primarily of salaries, project
materials, contract labor and other costs associated with ongoing product development and enhancement efforts.
 

34
 

Table of Contents
Derivatives and Hedging
We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against the effect
of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies and certain intercompany financing transactions associated
with our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore. These transactions are designated as cash flow hedges and are recorded
in the accompanying balance sheet at fair value. The effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component
of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. 
Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of
effectiveness are recognized in current earnings. Cash flows from derivative instruments are classified in the statement of cash
flows in the same category as the cash flows from the items subject to designated hedge relationships.
 
Advertising Costs
We expense all advertising costs as incurred. The amounts were not material
for all periods presented.
 
Income Taxes 
We evaluate uncertain tax positions using the “more likely than not”
threshold (i.e., a likelihood of occurrence greater than fifty percent). The recognition threshold is met when an entity concludes
that a tax position, based solely on its technical merits, is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant
taxing authority. Those tax positions failing to qualify for initial recognition are recognized in the first interim period in
which they meet the more likely than not standard, or are resolved through negotiation or litigation with the taxing authority,
or upon expiration of the statute of limitations. De-recognition of a tax position that was previously recognized occurs when an
entity subsequently determines that a tax position no longer meets the more likely than not threshold of being sustained.
 
Only the portion of the liability that is expected to be paid within one
year is classified as a current liability. As a result, liabilities expected to be resolved without the payment of cash (e.g. resolution
due to the expiration of the statute of limitations) or are not expected to be paid within one year are not classified as current.
It is our policy to record estimated interest and penalties as income tax expense and tax credits as a reduction in income tax
expense.
 
Deferred income taxes are recorded to reflect the tax consequences in future
years of differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. Income tax expense is the sum of
the tax currently payable and the change in the deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period, excluding changes in deferred
tax assets recorded to equity and goodwill. Valuation allowances are established when, in the opinion of management, there is uncertainty
that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets
and the need for a valuation allowance based on all positive and negative evidence.
 
Net Income Per Share 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Net income per diluted share is computed by dividing net income
by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares consist
of common shares to be issued upon exercise of stock options, restricted stock units and from participation in our employee stock
purchase plan, as calculated using the treasury stock method.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The carrying amounts of financial instruments such as cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, income tax refunds receivable, other assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities
approximate their related fair values due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
All equity-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock
options, are required to be recognized as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations based on the grant date fair value
of the award. We utilize the straight-line method of expense recognition over the award’s service period for our graded vesting
options. The fair value of stock options has been determined using the Black-Scholes model. The compensation expense recognized
for all equity based awards is net of estimated forfeitures, which is based on historical data. We have classified equity based
compensation within our statement of operations in the same manner as our cash based employee compensation costs. We elected to
use the alternative transition guidance known as the “short-cut method” to determine our pool of windfall tax benefits
at January 1, 2006.
 
See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
on stock-based compensation.
 

35
 

Table of Contents
Recent Accounting Developments
In June 2011, the FASB issued amended disclosure requirements for the presentation
of comprehensive income (ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income). The amended
guidance eliminates the option to present components of other comprehensive income (OCI) as part of the statement of changes in
equity. Under the amended guidance, all changes in OCI are to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive
income or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. The FASB subsequently met on October 21, 2011 and decided that
the specific requirement to present items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income alongside their respective
components of net income and other comprehensive income will be deferred. The remaining changes are effective January 1, 2012.
Early application is permitted. There will be no impact to the consolidated financial results as the amendments relate only to
changes in financial statement presentation.
 
NOTE 2 – MARKETABLE SECURITIES
 
Investments in marketable securities classified
as available-for-sale with a carrying amount of $16,746,000 at December 31, 2011 and $13,673,000 at December 31, 2010 consist of
the following:
 


  
December 31, 2011 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Unrealized Gains  
Unrealized Losses  
Recorded Basis 

  
   
   
   
  

U.S. government and agency obligations 
$6,495  
$8  
$—  
$6,503 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit 
 4,133  
 4  
 —  
 4,137 

Marketable securities – short-term 
$10,628  
$12  
$—  
$10,640 

  
    
    
    
   

U.S. government and agency obligations 
$3,653  
$28  
$(1) 
$3,680 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit 
 2,353  
 9  
 (2) 
 2,360 

Equity security 
 84  
 —  
 (18) 
 66 

Marketable securities – long-term 
$6,090  
$37  
$(21) 
$6,106 

 


  
December 31, 2010 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Unrealized Gains  
Unrealized Losses  
Recorded Basis 

  
   
   
   
  

U.S. government and agency obligations 
$3,178  
$7  
$—  
$3,185 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of  deposit 
 3,197  
 2  
 —  
 3,199 

Marketable securities – short-term 
$6,375  
$9  
$—  
$6,384 

  
    
    
    
   

U.S. government and agency obligations 
$4,809  
$17  
$(1) 
$4,825 

Corporate debt securities 
 2,208  
 4  
 (3) 
 2,209 

Asset backed securities 
 200  
 3  
 —  
 203 

Equity security 
 84  
 —  
 (32) 
 52 

Marketable securities – long-term 
$7,301  
$24  
$(36) 
$7,289 

 
Our equity security investment was in an $18,000 unrealized loss position
at December 31, 2011 and a $32,000 unrealized loss position at December 31, 2010, due to weak economic and stock market conditions.
We intend to hold this security indefinitely and expect a recovery in value as economic and market conditions continue to improve.
At December 31, 2011, the equity security investment had been in an unrealized loss position for less than one year.
 

36
 

Table of Contents
Our investments in long-term marketable debt securities all have maturities
of less than five years. At December 31, 2011, marketable debt securities valued at $14,207,000 were in an unrealized gain position
totaling $49,000. At December 31, 2011, marketable debt securities valued at $2,473,000 were in an insignificant unrealized loss
position totaling $3,000 (all had been in an unrealized loss position for less than twelve months). At December 31, 2010, marketable
debt securities valued at $10,578,000 were in an unrealized gain position totaling $33,000. At December 31, 2010, marketable debt
securities valued at $3,043,000 were in an insignificant unrealized loss position totaling $4,000 (all had been in an unrealized
loss position for less than twelve months).
 
Net pre-tax unrealized gains for marketable securities of $28,000 at December
31, 2011 and net pre-tax unrealized losses for marketable securities of $3,000 at December 31, 2010 were recorded as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders equity. In 2011 we received proceeds of $3,175,000 from the sale
of marketable securities. In 2010, we received proceeds of $3,241,000 from the sale of marketable securities. No gain or loss was
recognized on any of the sales in 2011 or 2010.
 
Investments in marketable securities classified as cash equivalents  of $685,000 at December 31, 2011 and $1,425,000 at December 31, 2010 consist of the following:
 


  
December 31, 2011 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Unrealized Gains  
Unrealized Losses  
Recorded Basis 

  
   
   
   
  

U.S. government and agency obligations 
$30  
$—  
$—  
$30 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit 
 655  
 —  
 —  
 655 

  
$685  
$—  
$—  
$685 

 


  
December 31, 2010 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Unrealized Gains  
Unrealized Losses  
Recorded Basis 

  
   
   
   
  

U.S. government and agency obligations 
$115  
$—  
$—  
$115 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit 
 1,310  
 —  
 —  
 1,310 

  
$1,425  
$—  
$—  
$1,425 

 
NOTE 3 – DERIVATIVES
 
We enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge against the effect
of exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows denominated in foreign currencies and certain intercompany financing transactions associated
with our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and Singapore. These transactions are designated as cash flow hedges. The effective
portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings
in the same period during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either
hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings. Hedge
ineffectiveness and the amounts excluded from effectiveness testing recognized in income on cash flow hedges were not material
for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
 
The maximum length of time over which we hedge our exposure to the variability
in future cash flows is 12 months. Accordingly, at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, all of our open foreign exchange forward
contracts had maturities of one year or less. The dollar equivalent gross notional amount of our foreign exchange forward contracts
designated as cash flow hedges was approximately $11.0 million at December 31, 2011 and $1.0 million at December 31, 2010.
 
The location in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive
income and amounts of gains and losses related to derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges are as follows. Reclassifications
of amounts from accumulated other comprehensive income into income include accumulated gains (losses) at the time earnings are
impacted by the forecasted transaction.
 

37
 

Table of Contents


Year Ended December 31, 2011

(In thousands) 
Pretax Gain (Loss) Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income on Effective Portion of Derivative  
Pretax Gain (Loss)  Recognized in Income on Effective  Portion of  Derivative as  a Result of Reclassification from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
Ineffective Portion of Gain (Loss) on Derivative and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing Recognized in Income 

  
   
   
  

Cost of sales 
$(291) 
$59  
$— 

Research and development 
 (76) 
 7  
 — 

Sales and marketing 
 (58) 
 6  
 — 

Other income 
 (43) 
 (43) 
 — 

Total 
$(468) 
$29  
$— 

 


Year Ended December 31, 2010

(In thousands) 
Pretax Gain (Loss) Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income on Effective Portion of Derivative  
Pretax Gain (Loss)  Recognized in Income on Effective  Portion of  Derivative as  a Result of Reclassification from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  
Ineffective Portion of Gain (Loss) on Derivative and Amount Excluded from Effectiveness Testing Recognized in Income 

  
   
   
  

Cost of sales 
$—  
$—  
$— 

Research and development 
 —  
 —  
 — 

Sales and marketing 
 —  
 —  
 — 

Other income 
 (23) 
 (23) 
 — 

Total 
$(23) 
$(23) 
$— 

 
As of December 31, 2011, we had $323,000 recorded in accumulated other comprehensive
income for the after tax net unrealized loss associated with cash flow hedging instruments. We expect to reclassify this amount
to earnings over the next 12 months with the impact offset by cash flows from underlying hedged items. At December 31, 2011, the
fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts representing a loss in the amount of $493,000 was recorded in accrued expenses
in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts and their impact on accumulated
other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2010 was inconsequential.
 
Additional information with respect to the impact of derivative instruments
on other comprehensive income is included in Note 4. Additional information with respect to the fair value of derivative instruments
is included in Note 5.
 
Our foreign exchange forward contracts contain credit risk to the extent
that our bank counter-parties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements. We minimize such risk by limiting our counter-parties
to major financial institutions. We do not expect material losses as a result of defaults by other parties.
 

38
 

Table of Contents
NOTE 4 – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 
 
Total comprehensive income and components of total other comprehensive income
(loss) for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:
 


  
Year Ended December
    31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Net income 
$4,357  
$3,135 

  
    
   

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: 
    
   

   Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 (37) 
 303 

   Tax effect 
 —  
 — 

   Foreign currency translation
    adjustments, net of tax 
 (37) 
 303 

  
    
   

   Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 
 30  
 (184)

   Tax effect 
 (10) 
 63 

   Unrealized gains (losses) on
    available-for-sale securities, net of 
      tax 
 20  
 (121)

  
    
   

  Unrealized losses on foreign exchange forward contracts 
 (497) 
 — 

  Tax effect 
 174  
 — 

  Unrealized gains (losses) on foreign exchange forward 
      contracts, net of tax 
 (323) 
 — 

  
    
   

Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 
$(340) 
$182 

  
    
   

Total comprehensive income 
$4,017  
$3,317 

 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010 components of accumulated other comprehensive
income (loss) is as follows:
 


  
December
    31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities 
$18  
$(2)

Unrealized losses on effective portion of foreign exchange forward 
      contracts, net 
 (323) 
 — 

Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 (621) 
 (584)

  
    
   

Balance at end of period 
$(926) 
$(586)

 
Reclassification adjustments are made to avoid double counting in comprehensive
income items that are also recorded as part of net income. Reclassifications to earnings related to cash flow hedging instruments
are provided in Note 3. There were no reclassifications to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive income related to realized
gains or losses on available-for-sale securities. Income taxes are not provided for foreign currency translation adjustments relating
to permanent investments in international subsidiaries.
 

39
 

Table of Contents
NOTE 5 - FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
We determine the fair value of our assets and liabilities based on the exchange
price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market
for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques
used to measure fair value maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. We use a fair value
hierarchy with three levels of inputs, of which the first two are considered observable and the last unobservable, to measure fair
value: The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1). The next highest priority is based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets or quoted
prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in non-active markets or other observable inputs (Level 2). The lowest priority
is given to unobservable inputs (Level 3). The following provides information regarding fair value measurements for our marketable
securities and forward exchange forward contracts as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 according to the three-level fair value hierarchy:
 


  
   
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011 Using 

(In thousands)  
Balance December  31, 2011  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

Marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government and agency 
    
    
    
   

obligations 
$10,183  
$—  
$10,183  
$— 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit 
 6,497  
 —  
 6,497  
 — 

Equity security 
 66  
 66  
 —  
 — 

Total marketable securities 
$16,746  
$66  
$16,680  
$— 

  
    
    
    
   

Derivative instruments –liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Foreign exchange forward 
    
    
    
   

contracts 
$(493) 
$—  
$(493) 
$— 

 


  
   
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010 Using 

(In thousands)  
Balance December 31,  2010  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

Marketable securities: 
    
    
    
   

U.S. government and agency 
    
    
    
   

obligations 
$8,010  
$—  
$8,010  
$— 

Corporate debt securities and certificates of deposit 
 5,408  
 —  
 5,408  
 — 

Asset backed securities 
 203  
 —  
 203  
 — 

Equity security 
 52  
 52  
 —  
 — 

Total marketable securities 
$13,673  
$52  
$13,621  
$— 

  
    
    
    
   

Derivative instruments: 
    
    
    
   

Foreign exchange forward 
    
    
    
   

contracts 
$—  
$—  
$—  
$— 

 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 there were no significant
transfers to or from the three level hierarchy. A significant transfer is recognized when the inputs used to value a security have
been changed which merit a transfer between the disclosed levels of the valuation hierarchy.
 
The fair value for our U.S. government and agency obligations, corporate
debt securities, certificates of deposit and asset backed securities are determined based on valuations provided by external investment
managers who obtain them from a variety of industry standard data providers. The fair value for our equity security is based on
a quoted market price obtained from an active market.
 

40
 

Table of Contents
The fair value for our foreign exchange forward contracts is based on foreign
currency spot and forward rates obtained from reputable financial institutions with resulting valuations periodically validated
by obtaining foreign currency spot rate and forward quotes from other industry standard sources or third party or counterparty
quotes.
 
The carrying amounts of financial instruments such as cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, other assets, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other current liabilities approximate the related fair
values due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. Non-financial assets such as equipment and leasehold improvements,
goodwill and intangible assets are subject to non-recurring fair value measurements if they are deemed impaired. We had no re-measurements
of non-financial assets to fair value in 2011 or 2010.
 
NOTE 6 – ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK BASED COMPENSATION
 
Share Based Compensation Information 
The following is a summary of pre-tax equity based
compensation expense for the two year period ended December 31, 2011:
 


(In thousands)  
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

Pre-tax equity compensation expense 
$430  
$391 

Income tax benefits related to equity based compensation 
$120  
$109 

 
Pre-tax equity compensation expense for 2011 includes $302,000 for stock
options and restricted stock units, $87,000 for our employee stock purchase plan and $41,000 for 4,000 shares issued to board members
for compensation purposes (weighted average grant date fair value of $10.12). Pre-tax equity compensation expense for 2010 includes
$266,000 for stock options and restricted stock units, $87,000 for our employee stock purchase plan and $38,000 for 4,000 shares
issued to board members for compensation purposes (weighted average grant date fair value of $9.45).
 
We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting forfeitures. At December
31, 2011, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested equity based compensation arrangements was $553,000 and
the related weighted average period over which it is expected to be recognized is 1.7 years. The total fair value of shares vested
was $215,000 in 2011 and $251,000 in 2010.
 
The fair values of the options granted to our employees were estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model. The Black-Scholes valuation model incorporates ranges of assumptions that are
disclosed in the table below. The risk-free interest rate is based on the United States Treasury yield curve at the time of grant
with a remaining term equal to the expected life of the awards. We estimated the expected term for our graded vesting options,
representing the length of time in years that the options are expected to be outstanding, using the simplified method. We continued
to use the simplified method in 2010 because our historical exercise experience is not expected to be representative of exercise
patterns in the future, due to our recent restructuring activities and employee turnover. Expected volatility was computed based
on historical fluctuations in the daily price of our common stock.
 
There were no stock options granted in 2011. For stock options granted in
2010, we utilized the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant and employed the following key assumptions in computing
fair value using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model:
 


  
2010 

  
   

Risk-free interest rates 
1.98%-2.75% 

Expected life in years 
4.75 

Expected volatility 
48%-52% 

Expected dividends 
None 

Weighted average fair value on grant date 
$4.20 

 

41
 

Table of Contents
Stock Options
 
We have two stock incentive plans that are administered under the supervision
of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors which have 732,776 shares of common stock reserved in the aggregate for
issuance of options and other stock based benefits, including restricted stock units, to employees, officers and others. Reserved
shares underlying canceled options are available for future grant under our active plans. Options are granted at an option price
per share equal to or greater than the market value at the date of grant. Generally, options granted to employees vest over a four-year
period and expire five, seven or ten years after the date of grant. The plans allow for option holders to tender shares of our
common stock as consideration for the option price, provided that the tendered shares have been held by the option holder at least
six months. As of December 31, 2011, there are 247,385 shares of common stock available for future issuance under these plans.
In addition, there are 50,000 shares reserved and included in the plan summaries below that are not part of the two stock incentive
plans.
 
The following is a summary of stock option activity for each of the years
in the two year period ended December 31, 2011:
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

Shares 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Outstanding, beginning of year 
 531,137  
 549,095 

Granted 
 —  
 106,167 

Exercised 
 (2,500) 
 (66,500)

Expired 
 (12,650) 
 (57,625)

Outstanding, end of year 
 515,987  
 531,137 

  
    
   

Exercisable 
 389,463  
 336,471 

 


Weighted average exercise price per share 
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

Outstanding, beginning of year 
$10.09  
$10.04 

Granted 
$—  
$9.59 

Exercised 
$4.80  
$5.97 

Expired 
$12.09  
$13.47 

Outstanding, end of year 
$10.07  
$10.09 

  
    
   

Exercisable 
$10.77  
$11.44 

 
The intrinsic value of an option is the amount by which the fair value of
the underlying stock exceeds its exercise price. For options outstanding at December 31, 2011, the weighted average remaining contractual
term was 3.15 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was $398,000. For options exercisable at December 31, 2011, the weighted
average remaining contractual term was 2.51 years and the aggregate intrinsic value was $266,000. The aggregate intrinsic value
of stock options exercised was $13,000 in 2011 and $113,000 in 2010. We received proceeds of $12,000 and realized an income tax
benefit of $5,000 from the exercise of stock options in 2011. New shares are issued for all option exercises, upon vesting of restricted
stock units, for share issuances to board members and others or for share issuances under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
 
Restricted Stock Units
 
Our 1998 Stock Incentive Plan also permits our Compensation Committee to
grant other stock-based benefits, including restricted stock units. Restricted stock units are valued at a price equal to the fair
market value of our common stock on the date of grant, generally vest over a four year period and entitle the holders to one share
of our common stock for each restricted unit. No restricted stock units were granted in 2011. The weighted average grant date fair
value for each restricted stock unit was $8.69 in 2010. The aggregate fair value of outstanding restricted stock units based on
the closing share price of our common stock as of December 31, 2011 was $151,000. The aggregate fair value of restricted stock
units that vested, based on the closing share price of our common stock on the vesting date, was $85,000 for the year ended December
31, 2011 and $90,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 

42
 

Table of Contents
A summary of activity in non-vested restricted stock
units for the year ended December 31, 2011 follows:
 


Non-vested restricted stock units 
Shares  
Weighted – Average  Grant Date Fair Value per Share 

  
    
   

Non-vested at December 31, 2010 
 32,645  
$7.55 

Granted 
 —  
$— 

Vested 
 (11,891) 
$7.36 

Forfeited 
 (1,350) 
$8.71 

Non-vested at December 31, 2011 
 19,404  
$7.58 

 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan available to eligible U.S. employees.
Under terms of the plan, eligible employees may designate from 1% to 10% of their compensation to be withheld through payroll deductions,
up to a maximum of $6,500 in each plan year, for the purchase of common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price on the first
or last day of the offering period. Share issuances under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan were 25,003 for the year ended December
31, 2011 and 30,658 for the year ended December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, 186,341 shares remain available for issuance
under this plan.
 
Stock Grant Plan for Non-Employee Directors
 
Our Stock Grant Plan for Non-Employee Directors provides for automatic grants
of 1,000 shares of our common stock to each of our non-employee directors upon their election or re-election to the Board of Directors.
The plan provides for a total of 30,000 shares of our common stock for issuance to directors and will expire on May 19, 2018. Share
issuances under the Stock Grant Plan for Non-Employee Directors were 4,000 shares in each of the years ended December 31, 2011
and December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011, 16,000 shares remain available for issuance under this plan. The shares issued
in 2011 had a fair market value on the date of grant equal to $41,000. The shares issued in 2010 had a fair market value on the
date of grant equal to $38,000.
 
NOTE 7 – NET INCOME PER SHARE 
 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Net income per diluted share is computed by dividing net income
by the weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Common equivalent shares consist
of common shares to be issued upon exercise of stock options, restricted stock units and from participation in our employee stock
purchase plan, as calculated using the treasury stock method. All anti-dilutive common equivalent shares are excluded from the
calculation of net income per diluted share due to their anti-dilutive effect. The components of net income per basic and diluted
share are as follows:
 


(In thousands except per share amounts) 
Net income  
Weighted Average Shares Outstanding  
Per Share Amount 

  
    
    
   

Year Ended December 31, 2011: 
    
    
   

Basic 
$4,357  
 6,906  
$0.63 

Dilutive effect of common equivalent shares 
 —  
 46  
 — 

  
    
    
   

Dilutive 
$4,357  
 6,952  
$0.63 

  
    
   

 


(In thousands except per share amounts) 
Net income  
Weighted Average Shares Outstanding  
Per Share Amount 

  
    
    
   

Year Ended December 31, 2010: 
    
    
   

Basic 
$3,135  
 6,861  
$0.46 

Dilutive effect of common equivalent shares 
 —  
 46  
 (0.01)

  
    
    
   

Dilutive 
$3,135  
 6,907  
$0.45 

 
The calculation of diluted net income per common share excludes 381,000
potentially dilutive shares for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 328,000 potentially dilutive shares for the year ended December
31, 2010, because their effect would be anti-dilutive.

43
 

Table of Contents
NOTE 8 – OTHER FINANCIAL STATEMENT DATA 
 
Inventories consist of the following:
 


  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Raw materials and purchased parts 
$6,893  
$6,895 

Work in process 
 1,007  
 1,807 

Finished goods 
 3,152  
 5,513 

  
    
   

  
$11,052  
$14,215 

 
Total amortization expense related to demonstration inventory was $582,000
for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $693,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Equipment and leasehold improvements consist of the following:
 


  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Equipment 
$10,257  
$10,957 

Leasehold improvements 
 1,471  
 1,514 

  
 11,728  
 12,471 

  
    
   

Accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 (10,328) 
 (10,575)

  
    
   

  
$1,400  
$1,896 

 
Total depreciation expense related to equipment and leasehold improvements
was $1,064,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 and $1,162,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Intangible and other assets consist of the following:
 


  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

(In thousands) 
Gross Carrying
 Amount  
Accumulated
 Amortization  
Net  
Gross Carrying
 Amount  
Accumulated
 Amortization  
Net 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Developed technology 
$7,775  
$(7,775) 
$—  
$7,775  
$(7,666) 
$109 

Patents 
 2,734  
 (2,504) 
 230  
 2,732  
 (2,406) 
 326 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$10,509  
$(10,279) 
$230  
$10,507  
$(10,072) 
$435 

 
Amortization expense for the two years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
is as follows:
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Developed technology 
$109  
$181 

Patents 
 200  
 227 

  
    
   

  
$309  
$408 

 
As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average remaining life of our intangible
assets, consisting entirely of patents, was approximately 2.1 years. Estimated aggregate amortization expense based on current
intangibles for the next three years is expected to be as follows: $135,000 in 2012, $74,000 in 2013 and $21,000 in 2014.
 

44
 

Table of Contents
Accrued expenses consist of the following:
 


  
December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Wages and benefits 
$1,741  
$1,437 

Warranty liability 
 985  
 702 

Income taxes payable 
 122  
 277 

Unrealized loss on foreign exchange forward contract 
 493  
 — 

Other 
 316  
 457 

  
    
   

  
$3,657  
$2,873 

 
We provide for the estimated cost of product warranties at the time revenue
is recognized. While we engage in extensive product quality programs and processes, including actively monitoring and evaluating
the quality of component suppliers, warranty obligations are affected by product failure rates, material usage and service delivery
costs incurred in correcting a product failure. Should actual product failure rates, material usage or service delivery costs differ
from our estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, and could be material. At the end of each
reporting period we revise our estimated warranty liability based on these factors.
 
A reconciliation of the changes in our estimated warranty
liability is as follows:
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Balance at the beginning of period 
$702  
$488 

Accruals for warranties 
 1,273  
 1,124 

Settlements made during the period 
 (990) 
 (910)

  
    
   

Balance at the end of period 
$985  
$702 

 
Extended warranty:
 
The current portion of our extended warranty liability is included as a
component of advance customer payments. A reconciliation of the changes in our extended warranty liability is as follows:
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Balance at the beginning of period 
$787  
$636 

Revenue deferrals 
 489  
 589 

Amortization of deferred revenue 
 (470) 
 (438)

Total extended warranty liability 
 806  
 787 

Current portion of extended warranty liability 
 (453) 
 (465)

Long term extended warranty liability 
$353  
 322 

 

45
 

Table of Contents
NOTE 9 – GOODWILL
 
We assess our goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year,
and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
 
In evaluating whether goodwill was impaired, we compared the fair value
of our reporting units to which goodwill is assigned to their carrying value (Step 1 of the impairment test). In calculating fair
value, we used the income approach. The income approach is a valuation technique under which we estimate future cash flows using
the reporting units’ financial forecasts. Future estimated cash flows are discounted to their present value to calculate
fair value. The summation of our reporting units' fair values is compared and reconciled to our market capitalization as of the
date of our impairment test. In the situation where a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, the amount of the
impairment loss must be measured. The measurement of the impairment (Step 2 of the impairment test) is calculated by determining
the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill. In calculating the implied fair value of goodwill, the fair value of the
reporting unit is allocated to all other assets and liabilities of that unit based on their fair values. The excess of the fair
value of a reporting unit over the amount assigned to its other assets and liabilities is the implied fair value of goodwill. The
goodwill impairment is measured as the excess of the carrying amount of goodwill over its implied fair value.

 
In determining the fair value of our reporting units under the income approach,
our expected cash flows are affected by various assumptions. Fair value on a discounted cash flow basis uses our business plan
and projections as the basis for expected future cash flow forecasts, with an estimation of residual growth rates thereafter. The
significant assumptions incorporated in the cash flow forecasts used for our 2011 goodwill impairment tests include a 20% discount
rate and a 5% terminal growth rate. We utilized a 20% discount rate and a 6% terminal growth rate for our 2010 goodwill impairment
test. Our goodwill at December 31, 2011 and 2010 in the amount of $569,000, relates entirely to our semiconductor reporting unit.
Our recent analyses indicate that this goodwill is not impaired.
 
NOTE 10 – INCOME TAXES
 
Income before income taxes consists of the following: 
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Sources of income before income taxes: 
    
   

United States 
$3,196  
$1,681 

Foreign 
 2,531  
 2,248 

Total income before income taxes 
$5,727  
$3,929 

 
The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following:
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Current: 
    
   

Federal 
$622  
$292 

State 
 61  
 (101)

  Foreign 
 58  
 272 

Total current 
$741  
$463 

Deferred: 
    
   

Federal 
$259  
$301 

State 
 166  
 (9)

Foreign 
 204  
 39 

Total deferred 
$629  
$331 

Total provision for income taxes 
$1,370  
$794 

 

46
 

Table of Contents
A reconciliation of the statutory rate to the effective income tax rate
is as follows:
 


  
Year ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Federal statutory rate 
 34.0%  
 34.0% 

State income taxes, net of federal benefit 
 1.2  
 (2.2)

Domestic manufacturing tax deduction 
 (1.5) 
 (0.9)

U.S. Subpart F income 
 1.3  
 1.8 

Stock based compensation 
 0.5  
 0.7 

Research and experimentation credit 
 (1.9) 
 (1.9)

Foreign rate difference 
 (11.1) 
 (11.5)

Reserve for income taxes 
 0.4  
 1.2 

Valuation allowance 
 1.4  
 0.4 

Other, net 
 (0.4) 
 (1.4)

  
    
   

Effective tax rate 
 23.9%  
 20.2% 

 
Our effective tax rate for 2011 and 2010 reflects the benefit of having
a significant portion of our operations in Singapore where corporate income tax rates are substantially lower than the United States.
Lower tax rates in foreign jurisdictions favorably impacted our 2011 income tax rate by 11.1% and our 2010 tax rate by 11.5%.
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount
of gross unrecognized tax benefits (“UTB”) is as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

Gross UTB balance at beginning of year 
$1,543  
$1,446 

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 
 101  
 97 

Additions for tax positions of prior years 
 52  
 — 

Reductions for tax positions of prior years 
 (69) 
 — 

Reductions due to lapse of applicable statute of limitations 
 (28) 
 — 

Gross UTB balance at end of year 
$1,599  
$1,543 

Net UTB balance at end of year 
$840  
$686 

 
The ending net UTB results from adjusting the gross
balance for items such as federal, state, and non-U.S. deferred items, interest and penalties, and deductible taxes. The net UTB
is a long-term income tax reserve within our Consolidated Balance Sheets. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized
tax benefits in tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties on a gross basis were $177,000 as of December 31, 2011 and $159,000
as of December 31, 2010.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, we
recorded a $22,000 increase in liabilities, net of deferred tax benefit, for uncertain tax positions that was recorded as income
tax expense. Estimated gross interest and penalties included in this amount total $18,000. During the year ended December 31, 2010,
we recorded a $49,000 increase in liabilities, net of deferred tax benefit, for uncertain tax positions that was recorded as income
tax expense. The estimated gross interest and penalties included in this amount total $19,000.
  
We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and various
state and foreign jurisdictions. During 2009, the Internal Revenue Service completed audits of our 2006 and 2007 federal income
tax returns. Our settlement with the Internal Revenue Service did not have a material impact on our financial condition. Due to
the carryback of our 2009 federal taxable loss to the years 2004-2007, the Internal Revenue Service could potentially examine our
federal income tax returns for those years. The statute of limitations for examination of these returns had previously expired.
We received a federal income tax refund in 2010 of approximately $2.4 million from carryback of our 2009 federal taxable loss.
Our 2010 federal income tax return is currently being audited by the Internal Revenue Service. We are not able to reasonably estimate
the timing of any potential payments that may result from this audit. We are no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations
by tax authorities for years before 2007.

47
 

Table of Contents
Deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the
following:
 


  
December 31, 2011  
December 31, 2010 

(In thousands) 
Assets  
Liabilities  
Assets  
Liabilities 

  
   
   
   
  

Fixed asset and intangible amortization, net 
$940  
$34  
$961  
$— 

Inventory allowances 
 497  
 —  
 629  
 — 

Accrued liabilities 
 309  
 —  
 193  
 — 

Warranty accrual 
 344  
 —  
 246  
 — 

Deferred revenue 
 500  
 —  
 612  
 — 

Accounts receivable allowance 
 328  
 —  
 353  
 — 

Federal and state tax credits 
 2,482  
 —  
 2,676  
 — 

Foreign net operating loss carry forwards 
 311  
 —  
 459  
 — 

Stock based compensation 
 468  
 —  
 397  
 — 

Unrealized losses - other comprehensive income 
 164  
 —  
 1  
 — 

Other, net 
 138  
 —  
 143  
 — 

    Subtotal 
 6,481  
 34  
 6,670  
 — 

Valuation allowance 
 (833) 
 —  
 (732) 
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

 Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 
$5,648  
$34  
$5,938  
$— 

 
We currently have significant deferred tax assets as a result of temporary
differences between taxable income on our tax returns and U.S. GAAP income, research and development tax credit carry forwards
and foreign net operating loss carry forwards. A deferred tax asset generally represents future tax benefits to be received when
temporary differences previously reported in our financial statements become deductible for income tax purposes, or when net operating
loss carry forwards or credits are applied against future taxable income, or when tax credit carry forwards are utilized on our
tax returns. We assess the realizability of our deferred tax assets and the need for a valuation allowance based on the guidance
provided in current financial accounting standards.
 
Significant judgment is required in determining the realizability of our
deferred tax assets. The assessment of whether valuation allowances are required considers, among other matters, the nature, frequency
and severity of any current and cumulative losses, forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory carry forward periods,
our experience with loss carry forwards not expiring unused and tax planning alternatives.
 
In analyzing the need for valuation allowances, we first considered our
history of cumulative losses for U.S. income tax purposes over the past three years and also gave significant consideration to
our results for U.S. income tax purposes over the past five years, as the economic cycles in our industry have tended to average
five years in length (from peak to trough). We also considered our forecasts of future profitability, the duration of statutory
carry forward periods and tax planning alternatives. Finally, we considered the length and severity of the recent global economic
crisis, the impact that it had on our operating results and our expectation for rebound given recent signs of recovery in the global
economy and more specifically in our markets. After considering all of these factors, and after considering other significant positive
evidence, we concluded that a valuation allowance, with respect to substantially all of our U.S. based deferred tax assets, was
not required at December 31, 2011.
 
Our results in both 2008 and 2009 were negatively impacted by the global
economic slowdown, and we incurred a loss in the United States in both 2008 and 2009, where most of our net deferred tax assets
are recorded. We recorded a profit in both 2010 and 2011. Achievement of ongoing profitability in the United States will be a significant
factor in determining our continuing ability to carry these deferred tax assets without recording a valuation allowance. If future
results from our operations are less than projected, a valuation allowance may be required against virtually all of our deferred
tax assets, which could have a material impact on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded.
 
Deferred tax assets at December 31, 2011, include $311,000 of net operating
loss carry forwards incurred in the UK by CyberOptics Ltd., which was acquired in 1999. The utilization of these net operating
loss carry forwards is dependent on CyberOptics Ltd.’s ability to generate sufficient UK taxable income during the carry
forward period. We reduced our deferred tax asset for UK net operating loss carry forwards by $44,000 in 2011 due to a reduction
in the future UK income tax rate. At December 31, 2011 we had $2,045,000 of federal R&D tax credits that will begin to expire
in 2021 if unused.
 
The valuation allowances at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are needed for various
long-term state tax credit carry forwards, state operating loss carry forwards and capital losses for which recovery is not deemed
to be more likely than not. The valuation allowance was increased in 2011 for additional state tax credit and net operating loss
carry forwards that failed to satisfy the more likely than not criteria for recovery.
 

48
 

Table of Contents
Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds received, were $822,000 for
the year ended December 31, 2011. Income tax refunds received, net of cash payments for income taxes, were $1,951,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2010.
 
We have been granted a tax holiday with respect to a wholly owned foreign
subsidiary allowing us to pay a reduced rate of tax for a period of five years through 2013. The tax holiday decreased income tax
expense in 2011 by $115,000 and decreased income tax expense in 2010 by $120,000, if income tax expense had been computed using
the statutory rate in the foreign jurisdiction where the subsidiary operates.
 
It is the intention of management to permanently reinvest all undistributed
earnings of international subsidiaries, and accordingly, we have not provided United States taxes on such earnings. It is not practicable
to determine the income tax liability that would be payable if such earnings were not indefinitely reinvested.
 
NOTE 11 – OPERATING LEASES 
 
We lease a 50,724 square foot mixed office and warehouse facility in Golden
Valley, Minnesota. The lease has a term of 90 months and expires on December 31, 2018. The lease contains
escalation clauses and two renewal options of three years each. Rental expense, including the effects of
lease incentives, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. We are also required to pay insurance, property
taxes and other operating expenses related to the leased facility.
 
We also lease a 20,000 square foot mixed office and warehouse facility in
Singapore through July 2013, in addition to facilities for the operations of our other subsidiaries under operating leases that
expire at various times through December 2014.
 
Total rent expense was $1,287,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 and
$1,442,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, the future minimum lease payments required under non-cancelable
operating lease agreements are as follows:
 


Year ending December 31, 
(In thousands) 

2012 
$866 

2013 
 630 

2014 
 444 

2015 
 457 

2016 
 469 

Thereafter through 2018 
 976 

Total 
 3,842 

 
NOTE 12 – 401(K) AND OTHER DEFINED CONTRIBUTION
PLANS 
 
We have a retirement savings plan pursuant to Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code (the Code), whereby eligible employees may contribute a portion of their earnings, not to exceed annual amounts allowed
under the Code. In addition, we may also make contributions at the discretion of the Board of Directors. We provided matching contributions
to employees totaling $237,000 in 2011 and $221,000 in 2010.
 
We also contribute to defined contribution retirement savings plans on behalf
of our employees in the United Kingdom. We made contributions to these plans totaling $40,000 in 2011 and $43,000 in 2010.
 

49
 

Table of Contents
NOTE 13 – BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND SIGNIFICANT
CUSTOMERS 
 
We determine our segments using the management approach, which designates
a segment as an internal organization that is used by management for making operating decisions and assessing performance. We have
determined that our business operates as two reportable segments. Balance sheet and income statement information for all periods
presented has been allocated to our two segments. The electronic assembly segment is the design, manufacture and sale of optical
process control sensors and inspection systems for the electronic assembly and photovoltaic cell equipment markets. The semiconductor
segment is the design, manufacture and sale of optical and other process control sensors and related equipment for the semiconductor
capital equipment market.
 
Information regarding our segments is as follows:
 


  
Year Ended December 31, 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

Revenue: 
    
   

Electronic assembly 
    
   

OEM Sensors 
$20,844  
$25,537 

SMT Systems 
 33,303  
 25,430 

Total electronic assembly 
$54,147  
$50,967 

Semiconductor 
 6,940  
 5,984 

Total 
$61,087  
$56,951 

  
    
   

Income from operations: 
    
   

Electronic assembly 
$3,747  
$2,114 

Semiconductor 
 1,941  
 1,547 

Total income from operations 
$5,688  
$3,661 

Interest income and other 
 39  
 268 

Income before income taxes 
$5,727  
$3,929 

  
    
   

Depreciation and amortization: 
    
   

Electronic assembly 
$1,751  
$2,035 

Semiconductor 
 204  
 228 

Total 
$1,955  
$2,263 

  
    
   

Expenditures for long-lived assets: 
    
   

Electronic assembly 
$693  
$1,083 

Semiconductor 
 183  
 228 

Total 
$876  
$1,311 

  
    
   

Total assets (end of year): 
    
   

Electronic assembly 
$41,424  
$39,306 

Semiconductor 
 4,026  
 3,620 

Corporate 
 17,466  
 15,308 

Total 
$62,916  
$58,234 

 
The following summarizes certain significant customer information:
 


(In thousands)
Significant Customer 
Revenues  
Percentage of Revenues  
  

  
    
    
   

Year ended December 31, 2011
A 
$10,025  
 16%  
   

 
C 
$8,279  
 14%  
   

  
    
    
   

Year ended December 31, 2010
A 
$12,108  
 21%  
   

 
B 
$8,010  
 14%  
   

 

50
 

Table of Contents
The significant customers listed above are related to our electronic assembly
segment. As of December 31, 2011, accounts receivable from significant customer A were $1,393,000 and accounts receivable from
significant customer C were $1,120,000. As of December 31, 2010, accounts receivable from significant customer A were $1,496,000
and accounts receivable from significant customer B were $1,961,000.
 
Our LaserAlign sensor family has historically accounted for a significant
portion of our electronic assembly sales and profitability. Revenue from product shipments of LaserAlign sensors accounted for
20% of our total revenue in 2011 and 27% of our total revenue in 2010. Our revenue, results of operations and cash flows would
be negatively impacted if our LaserAlign customers are unsuccessful selling the products into which our sensors are incorporated,
design their products to function without our sensors, purchase sensors from other suppliers, or otherwise terminate their relationships
with us.
 
Export sales as a percentage of total sales were 85% for the year ended
December 31, 2011 and 86% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Export sales are attributed to the country where the product is
shipped. Virtually all export sales are negotiated, invoiced and paid in U.S. dollars.
 
Revenue by geographic area is summarized as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

United States 
$9,009  
$8,115 

Americas 
 1,739  
 1,328 

Netherlands 
 5,402  
 7,833 

Other Europe 
 9,562  
 7,732 

China 
 14,898  
 11,714 

Japan 
 11,616  
 12,529 

Other Asia 
 7,850  
 7,035 

Other 
 1,011  
 665 

  
    
   

  
$61,087  
$56,951 

 
Long-lived assets include equipment and leasehold improvements attributable
to each geographic area’s operations. Long-lived assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
    
   

Long-lived assets: 
    
   

  United States 
$1,081  
$1,245 

  Europe 
 4  
 3 

  Asia and other 
 315  
 648 

  
    
   

Total long-lived assets 
$1,400  
$1,896 

 
NOTE 14 – CONTINGENCIES 
 
In the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in miscellaneous
claims and disputes. While the outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, management presently believes the disposition
of these matters will not have a material effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In the normal course of business to facilitate sales of our products and
services, we at times, indemnify other parties, including customers, with respect to certain matters. In these instances, we have
agreed to hold the other parties harmless against losses arising out of intellectual property infringement or other types of claims.
These agreements may limit the time within which indemnification claims can be made and almost always limit the amount of the claim.
It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the limited history
of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments
made, if any, under these agreements have not had a material impact on our operating results, financial position or cash flows.
 

51
 

Table of Contents
NOTE 15 – QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(UNAUDITED)
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 


2011 
March 31  
June 30  
September 30  
December 31 

  
    
    
    
   

Revenues 
$13,350  
$16,859  
$17,088  
$13,790 

Gross margin 
 6,607  
 7,507  
 7,467  
 6,472 

Income from operations 
 1,087  
 1,844  
 2,069  
 688 

Net income 
 846  
 1,398  
 1,566  
 547 

Net income per share – Basic (1) 
 0.12  
 0.20  
 0.23  
 0.08 

Net income per share – Diluted (1) 
 0.12  
 0.20  
 0.22  
 0.08 

 
 


2010 
March 31  
June 30  
September 30  
December 31 

  
    
    
    
   

Revenues 
$12,341  
$16,499  
$14,145  
$13,966 

Gross margin 
 5,256  
 6,656  
 6,663  
 6,387 

Income from operations 
 257  
 1,189  
 1,174  
 1,041 

Net income 
 247  
 969  
 948  
 971 

Net income per share – Basic (1) 
 0.04  
 0.14  
 0.14  
 0.14 

Net income per share – Diluted (1) 
 0.04  
 0.14  
 0.14  
 0.14 

 


(1)
The summation of quarterly per share amounts may not equal the calculation for the full year, as each quarterly calculation is performed discretely.

 
 
 
 
 


52
 

Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm
 
Board of Directors and Stockholders
CyberOptics Corporation
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets of CyberOptics Corporation (a Minnesota corporation) and subsidiary (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’ equity and
comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2011.  These
financial statements  are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements  based on our
audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have,
nor were we engaged to perform an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal
control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for
the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly,
we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CyberOptics Corporation and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the two years in the
period ended December 31, 2011 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
Grant Thornton LLP
Minneapolis, Minnesota
March 14, 2012
 
 
 

53
 

Table of Contents


ITEM 9. 
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

 
NONE.
 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of
our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”)). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of the end
of the period covered by this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required
to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported
within the time periods specified in applicable rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, in a manner that allows timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.
 
(i).     MANAGEMENT’S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
Management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(f),
and for performing an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the registrant’s principal
executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the registrant’s board
of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
and includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the registrant; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures
of the registrant are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the registrant; and (iii)
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the registrant’s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Management performed an assessment of the effectiveness
of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 based upon criteria in Internal Control
– Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”).
Based on our assessment, management determined that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective
as of December 31, 2011 based on the criteria in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.
 
Because the Company is a smaller reporting company,
this annual report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of the Company’s registered public accounting firm
regarding internal control over financial reporting.
 
(ii).      During the quarter ended
December 31, 2011, there has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under
the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.
 
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
 
NONE.
 

54
 

Table of Contents
PART III.
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
 
The information contained under the headings
“Proposal I–Election of Directors,” “Information About our Board of Directors and its Committees and Other
Corporate Governance Matters” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” of the Company’s
definitive proxy statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held May 21, 2012 (hereafter, the Proxy Statement), is
hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
The information under the headings “Information
About our Board of Directors and its Committees and Other Corporate Governance Matters–Compensation of Independent Directors,”
and “Executive Compensation” of the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.
 


ITEM 12. 
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

 
The information contained under the heading “Shares
Outstanding” and “Amendment to 1998 Stock Incentive Plan–Equity Compensation Plan Information” of the Proxy
Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.
 


ITEM 13. 
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

 
The information under the headings “Information
About our Board of Directors and its Committees and Other Corporate Governance Matters –Committees of Our Board–Audit
Committee” of the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
 
The information under the heading “Independent
Accountants and Payment of Fees” and “Information About our Board of Directors and its Committees and Other Corporate
Governance Matters –Committees of Our Board–Audit Committee” of the Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by
reference.
 
 
PART IV.
 
ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES
 
(a)(1)    Financial Statements:
The Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 to this Form 10-K consist of the following:
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2011 and
2010.
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010.
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 

55
 

Table of Contents


 
(b)
LIST OF EXHIBITS

 


Exhibit Number
Description

3.1
Articles of Incorporation of Company, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997).

 
 

3.2
Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the current report on Form 8-K dated September 8, 2008).

 
 

4.1
Restated Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed August 18, 1998 (file no 333-61711)).

 
 

4.2
CyberOptics Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed August 10, 2006 (file no 333-136500)).

 
 

4.3
CyberOptics Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed December 4, 2000 (file no. 333-51200)).

 
 

4.4
CyberOptics Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed August 10, 2011 (file no 333-176196)).

 
 

4.5
CyberOptics Corporation Stock Grant Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed August 14, 2008 (file no 333-153015)).

 
 

10.1
Lease Agreement between FirstCal Industrial 2 Acquisitions LLC and the Company dated March 27, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006).

 
 

10.2
First Amendment to Lease effective as of March 14, 2011, by and between Hines REIT Minneapolis Industrial, LLC and CyberOptics Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011).

 
 

*10.3
Severance Pay Agreement with Kathleen P. Iverson (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
    the current report on Form 8-K dated May 19, 2008).

 
 

*10.4
Severance Pay Agreement with Jeffrey A. Bertelsen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
    the current report on Form 8-K dated May 19, 2008).

 
 

*10.5
Amendment to Severance Pay Agreement with Jeffrey A. Bertelsen (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.1 to the current report on Form 8-K dated May 18, 2009).

 
 

10.6
Tenancy Agreement between NIDEC Component Technology Co. LTD and CyberOptics PTE LTD (Singapore) Term 15 May 2011 to 24 July 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010).

 
 

*10.7
Severance Pay Agreement with Daniel Good (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).

 
 

*10.8
Amendment to Severance Pay Agreement with Kathleen P. Iverson.

 
 

*10.9
Clarification to Severance Pay Agreement with Jeffrey A. Bertelsen.

 
 

*10.10
Clarification to Severance Pay Agreement with Daniel Good.

 
 

21.0
Subsidiaries of the Company.

 
 

23.1
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

 

56
 

Table of Contents


 
 

31.1
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 

31.2
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 

32.0
Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 
 

101
Financial statements formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language: (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statement of Operations, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholder’s Equity and Comprehensive Income, and (v) the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 
* Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

57
 

Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


 
 
CYBEROPTICS CORPORATION

 
 
 

 
 
/s/ KATHLEEN P. IVERSON

 
 
By Kathleen P. Iverson, CEO and Chair

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities
and on the dates indicated.
 


Name
 
Title
 
Date

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ KATHLEEN P. IVERSON
 
Director, CEO and Chair
 
March 14, 2012

Kathleen P. Iverson
 
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ ALEX B. CIMOCHOWSKI
 
Director
 
March 14, 2012

Alex B. Cimochowski
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ MICHAEL M. SELZER, JR.
 
Director
 
March 14, 2012

Michael M. Selzer, Jr.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ IRENE M. QUALTERS
 
Director
 
March 14, 2012

Irene M. Qualters
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ SUBODH K. KULKARNI
 
Director
 
March 14, 2012

Subodh K. Kulkarni
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ CRAIG D. GATES
 
Director
 
March 14, 2012

Craig D. Gates
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ JEFFREY A. BERTELSEN
 
Vice President and CFO
 
March 14, 2012

Jeffrey A. Bertelsen
 
(Principal Financial Officer
 
 

 
 
and Principal Accounting Officer)
 
 

 
 
 

58







