
10-K
1
v245205_10k.htm
FORM 10-K






 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 10-K
 
x Annual Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31,
2011
 
or
 
¨
 Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
Commission File No. 1-9973
 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in
its charter)
 


Delaware
 
36-3352497

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
 
(IRS Employer Identification Number)

 


1400 Toastmaster Drive, Elgin, Illinois
 
60120

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)

 
Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 847-741-3300
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 


Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange on which registered

 
 
 

Common stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 	Yes x	No ¨

 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to
file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.	Yes ¨	No
x
 
Note
– Checking the box above will not relieve any registrant required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act from their obligations under those Sections.
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.	 Yes x No ¨
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website,
if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).	 Yes x	No
¨


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s knowledge,
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “accelerated filer,
large accelerated filer and smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
 


Large accelerated filer x
Accelerated filer ¨
Non-accelerated filer ¨
Smaller reporting company ¨

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).	Yes ¨	No x
 
The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates
of the Registrant as of June 30, 2011 was approximately $1,695,367,810.
 
The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant’s class
of common stock, as of February 24, 2012, was 18,655,910 shares.
 
Documents Incorporated by Reference
 
Part III of Form 10-K incorporates by reference the Registrant’s
definitive proxy statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders.
 

 
 

 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
DECEMBER 31, 2011
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 


 

Page

 
 
 

 
 PART I
 

 
 
 

Item 1.
Business
1

 
 
 

Item 1A.
Risk Factors
8

 
 
 

Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments
14

 
 
 

Item 2.
Properties
15

 
 
 

Item 3.
Legal Proceedings
15

 
 
 

Item 4.
Mine Safety Issues
15

 
 
 

 
PART II
 

 
 
 

Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
16

 
 
 

Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
17

 
 
 

Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
18

 
 
 

Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about  Market Risk
28

 
 
 

Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
30

 
 
 

Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
73

 
 
 

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures
73

 
 
 

Item 9B.
Other Information
75

 
 
 

 
PART III
 

 
 
 

Item 10.
Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 

 
 
 

Item 11.
Executive Compensation
 

 
 
 

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 

 
 
 

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 

 
 
 

Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services
 

 
 
 

 
PART IV
 

 
 
 

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule
77

 

 
 

 
PART I
 
Item 1.      Business
 
General
 
The
Middleby Corporation (“Middleby” or the “company”), through its operating subsidiary Middleby Marshall
Inc. (“Middleby Marshall”) and its subsidiaries, is a leader in the design, manufacture, marketing, distribution, and
service of a broad line of (i) cooking and warming equipment used in all types of commercial restaurants and institutional kitchens
and (ii) food preparation, cooking and packaging equipment for food processing operations. 
 
Founded
in 1888 as a manufacturer of baking ovens, Middleby Marshall Oven Company was acquired in 1983 by TMC Industries Ltd., a publicly
traded company that changed its name in 1985 to The Middleby Corporation. The company has established itself as a leading provider
of (i) commercial restaurant equipment and (ii) food processing equipment as a result of its acquisition of industry leading brands
and through the introduction of innovative products within both of these segments.
 
The
company's annual reports on Form 10-K, including this Form 10-K, as well as the company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports are available, free of charge, on the company's internet website, www.middleby.com.
These reports are available as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
 
Business Segments and Products
 
The
company conducts its business through two principal business segments: the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group and the Food
Processing Equipment Group. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the company's business
segments.
 
Commercial
Foodservice Equipment Group 
 
The
Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group has a broad portfolio of cooking and warming equipment, which enable it to serve virtually
any cooking or warming application within a commercial kitchen or foodservice operation. This cooking and warming equipment is
used across all types of foodservice operations, including quick-service restaurants, full-service restaurants, convenience stores,
retail outlets, hotels and other institutions. 
 
This
commercial foodservice equipment is marketed under a portfolio of thirty brands, including Anets®, Beech®, Blodgett®,
Blodgett Combi®, Blodgett Range®, Bloomfield®, Britannia®, CTX®, Carter-Hoffmann®, CookTek®, Doyon®,
Frifri®, Giga®, Holman®, Houno®, IMC®, Jade®, Lang®, Lincat®, MagiKitch'n®, Middleby Marshall®,
MPC®, Nu-Vu®, PerfectFry®, Pitco Frialator®, Southbend®, Star®, Toastmaster®, TurboChef® and Wells®.

 
The products offered by this group include
conveyor ovens, combi-ovens, convection ovens, baking ovens, proofing ovens, deck ovens, speed cooking ovens, hydrovection ovens,
ranges, fryers, rethermalizers, steam cooking equipment, warming equipment, heated cabinets, charbroliers, ventless cooking systems,
kitchen ventilation, induction cooking equipment, countertop cooking equipment, toasters, and beverage equipment.
 
Food
Processing Equipment Group
 
The
Food Processing Equipment Group offers a broad portfolio processing solutions for customers producing pre-cooked meat products,
such as hot dogs, dinner sausages, poultry and lunchmeats and baked goods such as muffins, cookies and bread. Through its broad
line of products, the company is able to deliver a wide array of cooking solutions to service a variety of food processing requirements
demanded by its customers. The company can offer highly integrated solutions that provide a food processing operation a uniquely
integrated solution providing for the highest level of food quality, product consistency, and reduced operating costs resulting
from increased product yields, increased capacity and throughput and reduced labor costs though automation.
 
This
food processing equipment is marketed under a portfolio of eight brands, including, Alkar®, Armor Inox®, Auto-Bake®,
Cozzini®, Danfotech®, Drake®, MP Equipment®, and RapidPak®.
 
The products offered by this group include
a wide array of cooking and baking solutions including, batch ovens, baking ovens, proofing ovens, conveyor ovens, continuous processing
ovens, and automated thermal processing systems. The company also provides a comprehensive portfolio of complementary food preparation
equipment such as grinders, slicers, emulsifiers, mixers, blenders, battering equipment, breading equipment, food presses, and
forming equipment, as well as a variety of food safety, freezing and packaging equipment. This portfolio of equipment can be integrated
to provide customers a highly efficient and customized solution.
 

1
 

 
Acquisition Strategy
 
The
company has pursued a strategy to acquire and assemble a leading portfolio of brands and technologies for each of its two business
segments. Over the past three years the company has completed thirteen acquisitions to add to its portfolio of brands and
technologies of the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group and its Food Processing Equipment Group.  These acquisitions have
added fifteen brands to the Middleby portfolio and positioned the company as a leading provider of equipment in both industries.
 
In January 2009, the company acquired TurboChef
Technologies, Inc. (“TurboChef”) for cash and shares of Middleby common stock. The total aggregate purchase price of
the transaction amounted to $160.3 million including $116.3 million in cash and 1,539,668 shares of Middleby common stock valued
at $44.0 million. TurboChef is a leader in speed-cook technology, one of the fastest growing segments of the commercial foodservice
equipment market. TurboChef’s user-friendly speed cook ovens employ proprietary combinations of heating technologies to cook
a variety of food products at speeds up to 12 times faster than that of conventional heating methods.
 
In April 2009, the company acquired the
assets of CookTek LLC (“CookTek”) for $8.0 million in cash and $1.0 million in a deferred payment due the seller. CookTek
is a leader in the manufacture of induction cooking and warming systems for the commercial foodservice industry. CookTek’s
line of induction cooking equipment utilizes magnetic waves to heat product in a highly energy efficient manner at speeds fast
than conventional cooking equipment.
 
In April 2009, the company acquired substantially
all of the assets of Anetsberger Brothers, Inc. (“Anets”), a leading manufacturer of griddles, fryers, and dough rollers
for the commercial foodservice industry for $3.4 million in cash and $0.5 million in deferred payments. The acquisition of Anets
allows Middleby to continue to expand its portfolio of leading brands in cooking and warming and increase its leading position
in the griddle and fryer segment.
 
In December 2009, the company acquired all
of the shares of Doyon Equipment Inc. (“Doyon”), a leading manufacturer of baking ovens for the commercial
foodservice industry for approximately $6.4 million. The acquisition of Doyon enhances Middleby’s position as a leader in
the baking segment and better positions the company to address the growing needs of the retail and supermarket foodservice segment
 
In July 2010, the company acquired substantially
all of the assets and operations of PerfectFry Company (“PerfectFry”), a leading manufacturer of ventless countertop
frying units for a purchase price of approximately $4.9 million. This acquisition further strengthens Middleby’s leadership
position in ventless cooking solutions for the commercial foodservice industry.
 
In September 2010, the company acquired
the food processing equipment business of Cozzini Inc. (“Cozzini”), a leading manufacturer of equipment solutions for
the food processing industry for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $19.2 million in cash, 34,263 shares of Middleby
common stock valued at $1.8 million and $2.0 million in deferred payments. The acquisition of Cozzini complements Middleby’s
existing food processing equipment brands Alkar, RapidPak and MP Equipment.
 
In
April 2011, the company acquired all of the capital stock of J.W. Beech Pty. Ltd., together with its subsidiary, Beech Ovens Pty.
Ltd. (“Beech”), a leading manufacturer of stone hearth ovens for the commercial foodservice industry for a purchase
price of approximately $13.0 million. The acquisition of Beech continues to expand Middleby’s portfolio of leading brands
in the cooking and warming segments and reinforce its position as a leading manufacturer of commercial ovens. 
 
In
May 2011, the company acquired all of the capital stock of Lincat Group PLC (“Lincat”), a leading manufacturer of ranges,
ovens, and counterline equipment for the commercial foodservice industry for a purchase price of approximately $82.1 million. The
acquisition of Lincat not only expands its portfolio of leading brands but also increases its presence in European markets.
 
In
July 2011, the company acquired all of the capital stock of Danfotech Inc. (“Danfotech”), a leading manufacturer of
meat presses and defrosting equipment for the food processing industry for a purchase price of approximately $6.1 million and $1.5
million in contingent payments. The acquisition of Danfotech further complements Middleby’s existing food processing brands.
 
In
July 2011, the company acquired the assets of Maurer-Atmos GmbH (“Maurer”), a leading manufacturer of thermal processing
systems for the food processing industry based in Germany for a purchase price of approximately $3.3 million. The addition of this
brand complements and further strengthens Middleby’s food processing equipment platform.
 
In
August 2011, the company acquired all of the capital stock of Auto-Bake Pty. Ltd., (“Auto-Bake”) a leading manufacturer
of automated baking systems for the food processing industry for a purchase price of approximately $22.5 million. The acquisition
of Auto-Bake allows further expansion of product offerings in food processing equipment.
 

2
 

 
In
December 2011, the company acquired all of the capital stock of F.R. Drake Company (“Drake”), a leading manufacturer
of automated loading systems for the food processing industry for approximately $21.7 million. The acquisition of Drake further
complements the Middleby’s existing food processing brands.
 
In
December 2011, the company acquired all of the capital stock of Armor Inox, S.A. together with its subsidiaries Armor Inox Production
S.a.r.l. and Armor Inox UK Ltd. (collectively “Armor Inox”), a leading manufacturer of thermal processing systems for
the food processing industry for approximately $28.7 million.
 
The Customers and Market
 
Commercial Foodservice Equipment
Industry
 
The
company's end-user customers include: (i) fast food or quick-service restaurants, (ii) full-service restaurants, including casual-theme
restaurants, (iii) retail outlets, such as convenience stores, supermarkets and department stores and (iv) public and private institutions,
such as hotels, resorts, schools, hospitals, long-term care facilities, correctional facilities, stadiums, airports, corporate
cafeterias, military facilities and government agencies. The company's domestic sales are primarily through independent dealers
and distributors and are marketed by the company's sales personnel and network of independent manufacturers' representatives. Many
of the dealers in the U.S. belong to buying groups that negotiate sales terms with the company. Certain large multi-national restaurant
and hotel chain customers have purchasing organizations that manage product procurement for their systems. Included in these customers
are several large multi-national restaurant chains, which account for a meaningful portion of the company's business, although
no single customer accounts for more than 10% of net sales. 
 
Over
the past several decades, the foodservice equipment industry has enjoyed steady growth in the United States due to the development
of new quick-service and casual-theme restaurant chain concepts, the expansion into nontraditional locations by quick-service restaurants
and store equipment modernization. In the international markets, foodservice equipment manufacturers have been experiencing stronger
growth than the U.S. market due to rapidly expanding international economies and increased opportunity for expansion by U.S. chains
into developing regions. 
 
The
company believes that the worldwide commercial foodservice equipment market has sales in excess of $20 billion. The cooking and
warming equipment segment of this market is estimated by management to exceed $1.5 billion in North America and $3.0 billion worldwide.
The company believes that continuing growth in demand for foodservice equipment will result from the development of new restaurant
concepts in the U.S. and the expansion of U.S. and foreign chains into international markets, the replacement and upgrade of existing
equipment and new equipment requirements resulting from menu changes.
 
Food Processing Equipment Industry
 
The
company's customers include a diversified base of leading food processors. Customers
include several large international food processing companies, which account for a significant portion of the revenues of this
business segment, although none of which is greater than 10% of net sales.  A large
portion of the company's revenues have been generated from producers of pre-cooked meat products such as hot dogs, dinner sausages,
poultry, and lunchmeats and producers of baked goods such as muffins, cookies and bread; however, the company believes that it
can leverage its expertise and product development capabilities in thermal processing to organically grow into new end markets.
 
Food
processing has quickly become a highly competitive landscape dominated by a few large conglomerates that possess a variety of food
brands. The consolidation of food processing plants associated with industry consolidation drives a need for more flexible and
efficient equipment that is capable of processing large volumes in quicker cycle times. In recent years, food processors have had
to conform to the demands of “big-box” retailers, including, most importantly, greater product consistency and exact
package weights. Food processors are beginning to realize that their old equipment is no longer capable of efficiently producing
adequate uniformity in the large product volumes required, and they are turning to equipment manufacturers that offer product consistency,
innovative packaging designs and other solutions. To protect their own brands and reputations, big-box retailers are also dictating
food safety standards that are often more strict than government regulations.
  

A number of factors, including rising raw material prices, labor
and health care costs, are driving food processors to focus on ways to improve their generally thin profitability margins. In order
to increase the profitability and efficiency in processing plants, food processors pay increasingly more attention to the performance
of their machinery and the flexibility in the functionality of the equipment. Meat processors are continuously looking for ways
to make their plants safer and reduce labor-intensive activities. Food processors have begun to recognize the value of new technology
as an important vehicle to drive productivity and profitability in their plants. Due to pressure from big-box retailers, food processors
are expected to continue to demand new and innovative equipment that addresses food safety, food quality, automation and flexibility.

 

3
 

 
Improving
living standards in developing countries is spurring increased worldwide demand for pre-cooked and convenience food products. As
industrializing countries create more jobs, consumers in these countries will have the means to buy pre-cooked food products. In
industrialized regions, such as Western Europe and the U.S., consumers are demanding more pre-cooked and convenience food products,
such as deli tray variety packs, frozen food products and ready-to-eat varieties of ethnic foods.
 
The
global food processing equipment industry is highly fragmented, large and growing. The company estimates demand for food processing
equipment is approximately $3.0 billion in the U.S and $20.0 billion worldwide. The company’s product offerings compete in
a subsegment of the total industry, and the relevant market size for its products is estimated by management to exceed $0.5 billion
in the U.S. and $1.5 billion worldwide.
 
Backlog 
 
Commercial Foodservice Equipment
Group
 
The backlog of orders for the Commercial
Foodservice Equipment Group was $30.3 million at December 31, 2011, all of which is expected to be filled during 2012. The acquired
Beech and Lincat businesses accounted for $1.6 million of the backlog. The Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group's backlog was
$32.8 million at January 1, 2011. The backlog is not necessarily indicative of the level of business expected for the year, as
there is generally a short time between order receipt and shipment for the majority of the company’s products.
 
Food Processing Equipment Group
 
The backlog of orders for the Food Processing
Equipment Group was $108.7 million at December 31, 2011, of which $88.8 million is expected to be filled during 2012. The acquired
Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-bake, Drake and Armor Inox businesses accounted for $68.9 million of the backlog. The company's backlog
was $30.7 million at January 1, 2011.
 
Marketing and Distribution
 
Commercial Foodservice Equipment
Group
 
Middleby's
products and services are marketed in the U.S. and in over 100 countries through a combination of the company's sales and marketing
personnel, together with an extensive network of independent dealers, distributors, consultants, sales representatives and agents.
The company's relationships with major restaurant chains are primarily handled through an integrated effort of top-level executive
and sales management at the corporate and business division levels to best serve each customer's needs.
 
In
the United States, the company distributes its products to independent end-users primarily through a network of non-exclusive dealers
nationwide, who are supported by manufacturers' marketing representatives. Sales are made direct to certain large restaurant chains
that have established their own procurement and distribution organization for their franchise system. International sales are primarily
made through a network of independent local country stocking and servicing distributors and dealers and, at times, directly to
major chains, hotels and other large end-users.
 
Food Processing Equipment Group
 
The company maintains a direct sales force
to market the Alkar, Auto-Bake, Cozzini, Danfotech, Drake, Maurer, MP Equipment and Rapidpak brands and maintains direct relationships
with each of its customers. The company also involves division management in the relationships with large global accounts. In North
America, the company employs regional sales managers, each with responsibility for a group of customers and a particular region.
Internationally, the company maintains sales and distribution offices in Australia, Brazil, Italy, Germany and Mexico along with
global sales managers supported by a network of independent sales representatives.
 
The company’s sale process is highly
consultative due to the highly technical nature of the equipment. During a typical sales process, a salesperson makes several visits
to the customer’s facility to conceptually discuss the production requirements, footprint and configuration of the proposed
equipment. The company employs a technically proficient sales force, many of whom have previous technical experience with the company
as well as education backgrounds in food science.
 

4
 

 
Services and Product Warranty
 
The
company is an industry leader in equipment installation programs and after-sales support and service. The company provides a warranty
on its products typically for a one year period and in certain instances greater periods. The emphasis on global service increases
the likelihood of repeat business and enhances Middleby's image as a partner and provider of quality products and services. 
 
Commercial Foodservice Equipment
Group
 
The
company's domestic service network consists of over 100 authorized service parts distributors and 3,000 independent certified technicians
who have been formally trained and certified by the company through its factory training school and on-site installation training
programs. Technicians work through service parts distributors, which are required to provide around-the-clock service via a toll-free
paging number. The company provides substantial technical support to the technicians in the field through factory-based technical
service engineers. The company has stringent parts stocking requirements for these agencies, leading to a high first-call completion
rate for service and warranty repairs.
 
It
is critical to major foodservice chains that equipment providers be capable of supporting equipment on a worldwide basis. The company's
international service network covers over 100 countries with more than 1,000 service technicians trained in the installation and
service of the company's products and supported by internationally-based service managers along with the factory-based technical
service engineers. As with its domestic service network, the company maintains stringent parts stocking requirements for its international
distributors.
 
Food Processing Equipment Group
 
The company
maintains a technical service group of employees that oversees and performs installation and startup of equipment and completes
warranty and repair work. This technical service group provides services for customers both domestically and internationally. Service
technicians are trained regularly on new equipment to ensure the customer receives a high level of customer service. From time
to time the company utilizes trained third party technicians supervised by company employees to supplement company employees on
large projects.
 
Competition
 
The commercial foodservice and food processing
equipment industries are highly competitive and fragmented. Within a given product line the company may compete with a variety
of companies, including companies that manufacture a broad line of products and those that specialize in a particular product category.
Competition is based upon many factors, including brand recognition, product features, reliability, quality, price, delivery lead
times, serviceability and after-sale service. The company believes that its ability to compete depends on strong brand equity,
exceptional product performance, short lead-times and timely delivery, competitive pricing and superior customer service support.
In the international markets, the company competes with U.S. manufacturers and numerous global
and local competitors. 
 
The
company believes that it is one of the largest multiple-line manufacturers of food production equipment in the U.S. and worldwide
although some of its competitors are units of operations that are larger than the company and possess greater financial and personnel
resources. Among the company's major competitors to the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group are: Manitowoc Company, Inc.; Vulcan-Hart
and Hobart Corporation, subsidiaries of Illinois Tool Works Inc.; Electrolux AB; Groen, a subsidiary of Dover Corporation; Rational
AG; and the Ali Group. Major competitors to the Food Processing Equipment Group include Convenience Food Systems, FMC Technologies,
Multivac, Marel, Formax, and Heat and Control.
 

5
 

 
Manufacturing and Quality Control
 
The
company’s manufacturing operations provide for an expertise in the design and production of specific products for each of
the two business segments. The company has from time to time either consolidated manufacturing facilities producing similar product
or transferred production of certain products to another existing operation with a higher level of expertise or efficiency. 
 
The
Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group manufactures its products in ten domestic and eight international production facilities.
These production facilities are located in Brea, California; Chicago, Illinois; Elgin, Illinois; Mundelein, Illinois; Menominee,
Michigan; Bow, New Hampshire; Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina; Smithville, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; Burlington, Vermont; Brisbane,
Australia; Randers, Denmark; Scandicci, Italy; Shanghai, China; Laguna, the Philippines; Lincoln, the United Kingdom; Wrexham,
the United Kingdom; and Warwickshire, the United Kingdom.
 
The
Food Processing Equipment Group manufactures its products in four domestic and four international production facilities. These
production facilities are located in Algona, Iowa; Chicago, Illinois; Waynesboro, Virginia; Lodi, Wisconsin; New South Wales, Australia;
Mauron, France; Guadalupe, Mexico; and Reichenau, Germany.
 
Metal
fabrication, finishing, sub-assembly and assembly operations are conducted at each manufacturing facility. Equipment installed
at individual manufacturing facilities includes numerically controlled turret presses and machine centers, shears, press brakes,
welding equipment, polishing equipment, CAD/CAM systems and product testing and quality assurance measurement devices. The company's
CAD/CAM systems enable virtual electronic prototypes to be created, reviewed and refined before the first physical prototype is
built.
 
Detailed
manufacturing drawings are quickly and accurately derived from the model and passed electronically to manufacturing for programming
and optimal parts nesting on various numerically controlled punching cells. The company believes that this integrated product development
and manufacturing process is critical to assuring product performance, customer service and competitive pricing.
 
The
company has established comprehensive programs to ensure the quality of products, to analyze potential product failures and to
certify vendors for continuous improvement. Products manufactured by the company are tested prior to shipment to ensure compliance
with company standards.
 
Sources of Supply
 
The company purchases its raw materials
and component parts from a number of suppliers. The majority of the company’s material purchases are standard commodity-type
materials, such as stainless steel, electrical components and hardware. These materials and parts generally are available in adequate
quantities from numerous suppliers. Some component parts are obtained from sole sources of supply. In such instances, management
believes it can substitute other suppliers as required. The majority of fabrication is done internally through the use of automated
equipment. Certain equipment and accessories are manufactured by other suppliers for sale by the company. The company believes
it enjoys good relationships with its suppliers and considers the present sources of supply to be adequate for its present and
anticipated future requirements.
 
Research and Development
 
The company believes its future success
will depend in part on its ability to develop new products and to improve existing products. Much of the company's research and
development efforts at both the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group and the Foodprocessing Equipment Group are directed to the
development and improvement of products designed to reduce cooking and processing time, increase capacity or throughput, reduce
energy consumption, minimize labor costs, improve product yield and improve safety while maintaining consistency and quality of
cooking production and food preparation. The company has identified these issues as key concerns for most of its customers. The
company often identifies product improvement opportunities by working closely with customers on specific applications. Most research
and development activities are performed by the company's technical service and engineering staff located at each manufacturing
location. On occasion, the company will contract outside engineering firms to assist with the development of certain technical
concepts and applications. See Note 3(o) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on the company's research and development activities.
 

6
 

 
Trademarks, Patents and Licenses
 
The
company has developed, acquired and assembled a leading portfolio of trademarks and trade names. The company believes that these
tradenames and trademarks provide for a significant competitive advantage due to a long-standing recognition in the marketplace
with customers, restaurant operators, distribution partners, sales and service agents, and foodservice consultants that specify
foodservice equipment. The company has historically maintained a high level of marketshare of products sold with these tradenames
and trademarks. 
 
The company's leading portfolio of tradenames
of its Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group include Anets®, Blodgett®, Blodgett Combi®, Blodgett Range®, Beech®,
Bloomfield®, Britannia®, Carter-Hoffmann®, CookTek®, CTX®, Doyon®, FriFri®, Giga®, Holman®,
Houno®, IMC®, Jade®, Lang®, Lincat®, MagiKitch'n®, Middleby Marshall®, MPC®, Nu-Vu®, PerfectFry®,
Pitco Frialator®, Southbend®, Star®, Toastmaster®, Turbochef® and Wells®.
 
The company’s leading portfolio of
tradenames of its Food Processing Equipment Group include Alkar®, Armor Inox®, Auto-Bake®, Cozzini®, Danfotech®,
Drake®, MP Equipment®, and RapidPak®.
 
The
company holds a broad portfolio of patents and licenses covering technology and applications related to various products, equipment
and systems. Management believes the expiration of any one of these patents would not have a material adverse effect on the overall
operations or profitability of the company.
 
Employees
 
Commercial Foodservice Equipment
Group
 
As of December 31, 2011, 2,150 persons were
employed within the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group. Of this amount, 905 were management, administrative, sales, engineering
and supervisory personnel; 1,109 were hourly production non-union workers; and 136 were hourly production union members. Included
in these totals were 778 individuals employed outside of the United States, of which 432 were management, sales, administrative
and engineering personnel, 272 were hourly production non-union workers and 74 were hourly production union workers, who participate
in an employee cooperative. At its Elgin, Illinois facility, the company has a union contract with the International Brotherhood
of Teamsters that expires on April 30, 2012. The company also has a union workforce at its manufacturing facility in the Philippines,
under a contract that extends through June 2015. Management believes that the relationships between employees, unions and management
are good.
 
Food Processing Equipment Group
 
As of December 31, 2011, 616 persons were
employed within the Food Processing Equipment Group. Of this amount, 319 were management, administrative, sales, engineering and
supervisory personnel; 185 were hourly production non-union workers; and 112 were hourly production union members. Included in
these totals were 263 individuals employed outside of the United States, of which 140 were management, sales, administrative and
engineering personnel, 123 were hourly production non-union workers. At its Lodi, Wisconsin facility, the company has a contract
with the International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Ironworkers that expires on December 31, 2014.
At its Algona, Iowa facility, the company has a union contract within the United Food and Commercial Workers that expires on December
31, 2014. Management believes that the relationships between employees, unions and management are good.
 
Corporate
 
As of December 31, 2011, 18 persons were
employed at the corporate office.
 
Seasonality
 
The company’s revenues historically
have been stronger in the second and third quarters due to increased purchases from customers involved with the catering business
and institutional customers, particularly schools, during the summer months.
 

7
 

 
Item 1A.      Risk Factors
 
The company’s business, results of
operations, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks, including, but not limited to those set forth below.
If any of the following risks actually occurs, the company’s business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition
could be materially adversely affected These risk factors should be carefully considered together with the other information in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the risks and uncertainties described under the heading “Special Note Regarding
Forward-Looking Statements.”
 
Economic conditions may cause a decline in business and consumer
spending which could adversely affect the company’s business and financial performance.
 
The company’s operating results are
impacted by the health of the North American, European, Asian and Latin American economies. The company’s business and financial
performance, including collection of its accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by the current and future economic conditions
that caused, and may cause in the future, a decline in business and consumer spending, a reduction in the availability of credit
and decreased growth by our existing customers, resulting in customers electing to delay the replacement of aging equipment. Higher
energy costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility, recession and acts of terrorism may also adversely affect the
company’s business and financial performance. Additionally, the company may experience difficulties in scaling its operations
due to economic pressures in the U.S. and International markets.
 
The company’s
level of indebtedness could adversely affect its business, results of operations and growth strategy. 
 
The company now has and may continue to
have a significant amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, the company had $317.3 million of borrowings and $10.0 million
in letters of credit outstanding. As of December 31, 2011, the company could incur an additional $272.7 million of indebtedness
under its credit agreement. To the extent the company requires additional capital resources; there can be no assurance that such
funds will be available on favorable terms, or at all. The unavailability of funds could have a material adverse effect on the
company’s financial condition, results of operations and ability to expand the company’s operations.
 
The company’s level of indebtedness
could adversely affect it in a number of ways, including the following:
 

•the company may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other
general corporate purposes;
 

•a significant portion of the company’s cash flow from operations must be dedicated to debt service, which reduces the
amount of cash the company has available for other purposes;
 

•the company may be more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in the company’s business or general economic and industry
conditions;
 

•the company may be disadvantaged competitively by its potential inability to adjust to changing market conditions, as a result
of its significant level of indebtedness; and
 

•the company may be restricted in its ability to make strategic acquisitions and to pursue new business opportunities.
 
The company’s current credit agreement
limits its ability to conduct business, which could negatively affect the company’s ability to finance future capital needs
and engage in other business activities. 
 
The covenants in the company’s existing
credit agreement contain a number of significant limitations on its ability to, among other things:
 

·pay dividends;
 

·incur additional indebtedness;
 

·create liens on the company’s assets;
 

·engage in new lines of business;
 

·make investments;
 

·make capital expenditures and enter into leases; and
 

·acquire or dispose of assets.
 

8
 

 
These restrictive covenants, among others,
could negatively affect the company’s ability to finance its future capital needs, engage in other business activities or
withstand a future downturn in the company’s business or the economy.
 
Under the company’s current credit
agreement, the company is required to maintain certain specified financial ratios and meet financial tests, including certain ratios
of leverage and fixed charge coverage. The company’s ability to comply with these requirements may be affected by matters
beyond its control, and, as a result, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to meet these ratios and tests. A
breach of any of these covenants would prevent the company from being able to draw under the company revolver and would result
in a default under the company’s credit agreement. In the event of a default under the company’s current credit agreement,
the lenders could terminate their commitments and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and other fees,
to be immediately due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions
may also be accelerated and become due and payable at such time. The company may be unable to pay these debts in these circumstances.
 
The company has a significant amount of goodwill and could
suffer losses due to asset impairment charges. 
 
The company’s balance sheet includes
a significant amount of goodwill, which represents approximately 42% of its total assets as of December 31, 2011.  The
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of assets acquired, including identifiable intangible assets, and liabilities
assumed in conjunction with acquisitions is recorded as goodwill. In accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)
350 “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other”, the company’s long-lived assets (including goodwill and other intangibles)
are reviewed for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of long-lived assets, the company considers changes in economic conditions
and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors.  Various uncertainties, including continued
adverse conditions in the capital markets or changes in general economic conditions, could impact the future operating performance
at one or more of the company’s businesses, which could significantly affect the company’s valuations and could result
in additional future impairments. Also, estimates of future cash flows are judgments based on the company’s experience and
knowledge of operations.  These estimates can be significantly impacted by many factors, including changes in global
and local business and economic conditions, operating costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends.  If
the company’s estimates or the underlying assumptions change in the future, the company may be required to record impairment
charges. Any such charge could have a material adverse effect on the company’s reported net earnings.
 
Competition in the foodservice equipment
industry is intense and could impact the company’s results of operations and cash flows. 
 
The company operates in a highly competitive
industry. In the company’s business, competition is based on product features and design, brand recognition, reliability,
durability, technology, energy efficiency, breadth of product offerings, price, customer relationships, delivery lead times, serviceability
and after-sale service. The company has a number of competitors in each product line that it offers. Many of the company’s
competitors are substantially larger and enjoy substantially greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources.
These factors may enable them to develop similar or superior products, to provide lower cost products and to carry out their business
strategies more quickly and efficiently than the company can. In addition, some competitors focus on particular product lines or
geographic regions or emphasize their local manufacturing presence or local market knowledge. Some competitors have different pricing
structures and may be able to deliver their products at lower prices. Although the company believes that the performance and price
characteristics of its products will provide competitive solutions for its customers’ needs, there can be no assurance that
the company’s customers will continue to choose the company’s products over products offered by its competitors.
 
Further, the market for the company’s
products is characterized by changing technology and evolving industry standards. The company’s ability to compete in the
past has depended in part on the company’s ability to develop innovative new products and bring them to market more quickly
than the company’s competitors. The company’s ability to compete successfully will depend, in large part, on its ability
to enhance and improve its existing products, to continue to bring innovative products to market in a timely fashion, to adapt
the company’s products to the needs and standards of its current and potential customers and to continue to improve operating
efficiencies and lower manufacturing costs. Moreover, competitors may develop technologies or products that render the company’s
products obsolete or less marketable. If the company’s products, markets and services are not competitive, the company’s
business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed.
 

9
 

 
In addition, the success of the company’s
business depends, in part, on its ability to maintain and expand the company’s product offerings and the company’s
customer base. The company’s success also depends on its ability to offer competitive prices and services in a price sensitive
business. Many of the company’s larger restaurant chain customers have multiple sources of supply for their equipment purchases
and periodically approve new competitive equipment as an alternative to the company’s products for use within their restaurants.
There can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to expand its product lines or that it will be able to retain
its current customers or attract new customers. The company also cannot assure you that it will not lose customers to low-cost
competitors with comparable or superior products and services. If the company fails to expand its product offerings, or loses a
substantial number of the company’s current customers or substantial business from current customers, or is unable to attract
new customers, the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.
 
The company is subject to risks associated
with developing products and technologies, which could delay product introductions and result in significant expenditures. 
 
The product, program and service needs of
the company’s customers change and evolve regularly, and the company invests substantial amounts in research and development
efforts to pursue advancements in a wide range of technologies, products and services. Also, the company continually seeks to refine
and improve upon the performance, utility and physical attributes of its existing products and to develop new products. As a result,
the company’s business is subject to risks associated with new product and technological development, including unanticipated
technical or other problems, meeting development, production, certification and regulatory approval schedules, execution of internal
and external performance plans, availability of supplier- and internally-produced parts and materials, performance of suppliers
and subcontractors, hiring and training of qualified personnel, achieving cost and production efficiencies, identification of emerging
technological trends in the company’s target end-markets, validation of innovative technologies, the level of customer interest
in new technologies and products, and customer acceptance of the company’s products and products that incorporate technologies
that the company develops. These factors involve significant risks and uncertainties. Also, any development efforts divert resources
from other potential investments in the company’s businesses, and these efforts may not lead to the development of new technologies
or products on a timely basis or meet the needs of the company’s customers as fully as competitive offerings. In addition,
the markets for the company’s products or products that incorporate the company’s technologies may not develop or grow
as the company anticipates. The company or its suppliers and subcontractors may encounter difficulties in developing and producing
these new products and services, and may not realize the degree or timing of benefits initially anticipated. Due to the design
complexity of the company's products, the company may in the future experience delays in completing the development and introduction
of new products. Any delays could result in increased development costs or deflect resources from other projects. The occurrence
of any of these risks could cause a substantial change in the design, delay in the development, or abandonment of new technologies
and products. Consequently, there can be no assurance that the company will develop new technologies superior to the company’s
current technologies or successfully bring new products to market.
 
Additionally, there can be no assurance
that new technologies or products, if developed, will meet the company’s current price or performance objectives, be developed
on a timely basis, or prove to be as effective as products based on other technologies. The inability to successfully complete
the development of a product, or a determination by the company, for financial, technical or other reasons, not to complete development
of a product, particularly in instances in which the company has made significant expenditures, could have a material adverse effect
on the company’s financial condition and operating results.
 
The company has depended, and will continue
to depend, on key customers for a material portion of its revenues. As a result, changes in the purchasing patterns of such key
customers could adversely impact the company’s operating results. 
 
Many of the company’s key customers
are large restaurant chains and major food processing companies. The demand for the company’s equipment can vary from quarter
to quarter depending on the company’s customers’ internal growth plans, construction, seasonality and other factors.
In addition, during an economic downturn, key customers could both open fewer facilities and defer purchases of new equipment for
existing operations. Either of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on the company’s financial condition
and results of operations.
 
Price changes in some materials and sources
of supply could affect the company’s profitability.
 
The company uses large amounts of stainless
steel, aluminized steel and other commodities in the manufacture of its products. A significant increase in the price of steel
or any other commodity that the company is not able to pass on to its customers would adversely affect the company’s operating
results. In addition, an unanticipated delay in delivery of raw materials and component inventories by suppliers—including
a delay due to capacity constraints, labor disputes, the financial condition of suppliers, weather emergencies, or other natural
disasters—may impair the ability of the company to satisfy customer demand. An interruption in or the cessation of an important
supply by any third party and the company’s inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, could
have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, financial condition and operating results.
 

10
 

 
The company’s acquisition, investment
and alliance strategy involves risks. If the company is unable to effectively manage these risks, its business will be materially
harmed. 
 
To achieve the company’s strategic
objectives, the company has pursued and may continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or invest in other companies,
businesses or technologies. Acquisitions entail numerous risks, including the following:
 
•     	difficulties in the assimilation
of acquired businesses or technologies;
 
•	     inability to operate acquired
businesses or utilize acquired technologies profitably;
 
•	     diversion of management’s
attention from other business concerns;
 
•	     potential assumption of unknown
material liabilities;
 
•	     failure to achieve financial or
operating objectives;
 
•     	unanticipated costs relating to
acquisitions or to the integration of the acquired businesses; and
 
•	     loss of customers, suppliers,
or key employees
 
The company may not be able to successfully
integrate any operations, personnel, services or products that it has acquired or may acquire in the future.
 
The company may seek to expand or enhance
some of its operations by forming joint ventures or alliances with various strategic partners throughout the world. Entering into
joint ventures and alliances also entails risks, including difficulties in developing and expanding the businesses of newly formed
joint ventures, exercising influence over the activities of joint ventures in which the company does not have a controlling interest
and potential conflicts with the company’s joint venture or alliance partners.
 
An inability to identify or complete future
acquisitions could adversely affect future growth. 
 
The company has historically followed a
strategy of identifying and acquiring businesses with complementary products and services. As part of its growth strategy, the
company intends to pursue acquisitions that provide opportunities for profitable growth and which enable it to leverage its competitive
strengths. While the company continues to evaluate potential acquisitions, it may not be able to identify and successfully negotiate
suitable acquisitions, obtain financing for future acquisitions on satisfactory terms, obtain regulatory approval for certain acquisitions,
or otherwise complete acquisitions in the future. An inability to identify or complete future acquisitions could limit the company’s
growth.
 
Expansion of the company’s operations
internationally involves special challenges that it may not be able to meet. The company’s failure to meet these challenges
could adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results. 
 
The company plans to continue to expand
its operations internationally. The company faces certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets. These risks
include:
 

•extensive regulations and oversight, tariffs and other trade barriers;
 
•     	reduced protection for intellectual
property rights;
 
•	     difficulties in staffing and managing
foreign operations;
 
•	     potentially adverse tax consequences;
 
•	     limitations on ownership and on
repatriation of earnings;
 
•	     transportation delays and interruptions;
 
•	     political, social, and economic
instability and disruptions;
 
•	     labor unrests;
 
•	     potential for nationalization
of enterprises; and
 
•	     limitations on the company’s
ability to enforce legal rights and remedies.
 

11
 

 
In addition, the company is and will be
required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which the
company conducts business.
 
There can be no assurance that the company
will be able to succeed in marketing its products and services in international markets. The company may also experience difficulty
in managing its international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, management of foreign
exchange risk, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these
factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of the company’s international operations and, consequently,
on the company’s business, financial condition and operating results. 
 
The company is subject to currency fluctuations
and other risks from its operations outside the United States.
 
The company has manufacturing and distribution
operations located in Asia, Europe and Latin America. The company’s operations are subject to the impact of economic downturns,
political instability and foreign trade restrictions, which may adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition
and operating results. The company anticipates that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of consolidated
net sales in the foreseeable future. Some sales and operating costs of the company’s foreign operations are realized in local
currencies, and an increase in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against such currencies would lead to a reduction in consolidated
sales and earnings. Additionally, foreign currency exposures are not fully hedged, and there can be no assurances that the company’s
future results of operations will not be adversely affected by currency fluctuations. Furthermore, currency fluctuations may affect
the prices paid to the company’s suppliers for materials the company uses in production. As a result, operating margins may
also be negatively impacted by worldwide currency fluctuations that result in higher costs for certain cross-border transactions.
 
The company may not be able to adequately
protect its intellectual property rights, and this inability may materially harm its business. 
 
The company relies primarily on trade secret,
copyright, service mark, trademark and patent law and contractual protections to protect the company’s proprietary technology
and other proprietary rights. The company has filed numerous patent applications covering the company’s technology. Notwithstanding
the precautions the company takes to protect its intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise
obtain and use the company’s proprietary technology without authorization or may otherwise infringe on the company’s
rights. In some cases, including a number of the company’s most important products, there may be no effective legal recourse
against duplication by competitors. In the future, the company may have to rely on litigation to enforce its intellectual property
rights, protect its trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims
of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs to the
company and diversions of the company’s resources, either of which could adversely affect the company’s business.
 
Any infringement by the company on patent
rights of others could result in litigation and adversely affect its ability to continue to provide, or could increase the cost
of providing, the company’s products and services. 
 
Patents of third parties may have an important
bearing on the company’s ability to offer some of its products and services. The company’s competitors, as well as
other companies and individuals, may obtain, and may be expected to obtain in the future, patents related to the types of products
and services the company offers or plans to offer. There can be no assurance that the company is or will be aware of all patents
containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by its products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the
United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, the company cannot evaluate the extent to which its products
and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or
more of the company’s products or services were to infringe patents held by others, the company may be required to stop developing
or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the patents to develop and market the services, or
to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing on the patent claims. The company cannot assess the extent
to which it may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would
be available or, if available, whether it would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If the company
were unable to obtain such licenses, it also may not be able to redesign the company’s products or services to avoid infringement,
which could materially adversely affect the company’s business, financial condition and operating results.
 

12
 

 
The company may be the subject of product
liability claims or product recalls, and it may be unable to obtain or maintain insurance adequate to cover potential liabilities.

 
Product liability is a significant commercial
risk to the company. The company’s business exposes it to potential liability risks that arise from the manufacture, marketing
and sale of the company’s products. In addition to direct expenditures for damages, settlement and defense costs, there is
a possibility of adverse publicity as a result of product liability claims. Some plaintiffs in some jurisdictions have received
substantial damage awards against companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. In addition,
it may be necessary for the company to recall products that do not meet approved specifications, which could result in adverse
publicity as well as costs connected to the recall and loss of revenue.
 
The company cannot be certain that a product
liability claim or series of claims brought against it would not have an adverse effect on the company’s business, financial
condition or results of operations. If any claim is brought against the company, regardless of the success or failure of the claim,
the company cannot assure you that it will be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance in the future on acceptable
terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities or the cost of a recall. The company currently maintains insurance
programs consisting of self insurance up to certain limits and excess insurance coverage for claims over established limits. There
can be no assurance that the company will be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or that its insurance programs will provide
adequate protection against actual losses. In addition, the company is subject to the risk that one or more of its insurers may
become insolvent or become unable to pay claims that may be made in the future.
 
The company may be subject to litigation,
environmental, and other legal compliance risks.
 
In addition to product liability claims,
the company is subject to a variety of litigation, tax, and legal compliance risks. These risks include, among other things, possible
liability relating to personal injuries, intellectual property rights, contract-related claims, taxes, environmental matters, and
compliance with U.S. and foreign export laws, competition laws, and laws governing improper business practices. The company or
one of its business units could be charged with wrongdoing as a result of such matters. If convicted or found liable, the company
could be subject to significant fines, penalties, repayments, or other damages.
 
An increase in warranty expenses could
adversely affect the company’s financial performance.
 
The company offers purchasers of its products
warranties covering workmanship and materials typically for one year and, in certain circumstances, for periods of up to ten years,
during which period the company or an authorized service representative will make repairs and replace parts that have become defective
in the course of normal use. The company estimates and records its future warranty costs based upon past experience. These warranty
expenses may increase in the future and may exceed the company’s warranty reserves, which, in turn, could adversely affect
the company’s financial performance.
 
The company is subject to potential liability
under environmental laws. 
 
The company’s operations are regulated
under a number of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of
hazardous materials into the air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of these materials. Compliance with these
environmental laws and regulations is a significant consideration for the company because it uses hazardous materials in its manufacturing
processes. In addition, because the company is a generator of hazardous wastes, even if it fully complies with applicable environmental
laws, it may be subject to financial exposure for costs associated with an investigation and remediation of sites at which it has
arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes if these sites become contaminated. In the event of a violation of environmental
laws, the company could be held liable for damages and for the costs of remedial actions. Environmental laws could also become
more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with any violation, which
could negatively affect the company’s operating results. There can be no assurance that identification of presently unidentified
environmental conditions, more vigorous enforcement by regulatory authorities, or other unanticipated events will not arise in
the future and give rise to additional environmental liabilities, compliance costs, and penalties that could be material. Environmental
laws and regulations are constantly evolving, and it is impossible to predict accurately the effect they may have upon the financial
condition, results of operations, or cash flows of the company.
 

13
 

 
The company’s financial performance
is subject to significant fluctuations. 
 
The company’s financial performance
is subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, including:
 
•      general economic conditions;
 

•the lengthy, unpredictable sales cycle for commercial foodservice equipment and food processing equipment;
 
•      the gain or loss of significant
customers;
 
•      unexpected delays in new product
introductions;
 

•the level of market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of the company’s products;
 
•      unexpected changes in the levels
of the company’s operating expenses; and
 
•      competitive product offerings
and pricing actions.
 
Each of these factors could result in a
material and adverse change in the company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
The company may be unable to manage its
growth. 
 
The company has recently experienced rapid
growth in business. Continued growth could place a strain on the company’s management, operations and financial resources.
There also will be additional demands on the company’s sales, marketing and information systems and on the company’s
administrative infrastructure as it develops and offers additional products and enters new markets. The company cannot be certain
that the company’s operating and financial control systems, administrative infrastructure, outsourced and internal production
capacity, facilities and personnel will be adequate to support the company’s future operations or to effectively adapt to
future growth. If the company cannot manage the company’s growth effectively, the company’s business may be harmed.
 
The company’s business could suffer
in the event of a work stoppage by its unionized labor force. 
 
Because the company has a significant number
of workers whose employment is subject to collective bargaining agreements and labor union representation, the company is vulnerable
to possible organized work stoppages and similar actions. Unionized employees accounted for approximately 9% of the company’s
workforce as of December 31, 2011. The company has union contracts with employees at its facilities in Algona, Iowa, Elgin, Illinois
and Lodi, Wisconsin that extend through December 2014, April 2012 and December 2014, respectively. The company also has a union
workforce at its manufacturing facility in the Philippines under a contract that extends through June 2015. Any future strikes,
employee slowdowns or similar actions by one or more unions, in connection with labor contract negotiations or otherwise, could
have a material adverse effect on the company’s ability to operate the company’s business.
 
The company depends significantly on its
key personnel. 
 
The company depends significantly on certain
of the company’s executive officers and certain other key personnel, many of whom could be difficult to replace. While the
company has employment agreements with certain key executives, the company cannot be certain that it will succeed in retaining
this personnel or their services under existing agreements. The incapacity, inability or unwillingness of certain of these people
to perform their services may have a material adverse effect on the company. There is intense competition for qualified personnel
within the company’s industry, and there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to attract, motivate
and retain personnel with the skills and experience needed to successfully manage the company business and operations.
 
The impact of future transactions on the
company’s common stock is uncertain. 
 
The company periodically reviews potential
transactions related to products or product rights and businesses complementary to the company’s business. Such transactions
could include mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures, alliances or licensing agreements. In the future, the company may choose to
enter into such transactions at any time. The impact of transactions on the market price of a company’s stock is often uncertain,
but it may cause substantial fluctuations to the market price. Consequently, any announcement of any such transaction could have
a material adverse effect upon the market price of the company’s common stock. Moreover, depending upon the nature of any
transaction, the company may experience a charge to earnings, which could be material and could possibly have an adverse impact
upon the market price of the company’s common stock.
 
Item 1B.      Unresolved Staff Comments
 
Not applicable.
 

14
 

 
Item 2.      Properties
 
The
company's principal executive offices are located in Elgin, Illinois. The company operates fourteen manufacturing facilities in
the U.S and twelve manufacturing facilities internationally.
 
The
principal properties of the company utilized to conduct business operations are listed below:
 


Location
 
Principal Function
 
 

Square
Footage
 

Owned/
Leased
 

Lease
Expiration
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Brea, CA
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
72,000
 
Leased
 
June 2015
 

Buford, GA
 
Warehousing and Offices
 
 
17,350
 
Leased
 
February 2013
 

 
 
 
 
 
30,000
 
Leased
 
December  2014
 

Chicago, IL
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
45,100
 
Leased
 
December 2012
 

Chicago, IL
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
30,800
 
Leased
 
March 2013/
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2012
 

Elgin, IL
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
207,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Mundelein, IL
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
55,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

 
 
 
 
 
33,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Algona, IA
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
50,700
 
Leased
 
December 2012
 

Menominee, MI
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
46,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

St. Louis, MO
 
Offices
 
 
46,900
 
Leased
 
August 2017
 

Bow, NH
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
100,000
 
Owned 
 
N/A
 

 
 
 
 
 
57,400
 
Leased
 
March 2015
 

Fuquay-Varina, NC
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
135,400
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Smithville, TN
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
190,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Carrollton, TX
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
134,200
 
Leased
 
September 2012/
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
November 2012
 

Waynesburg, VA
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
25,600
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

 
 
 
 
 
14,360
 
Leased
 
October 2012
 

Burlington, VT
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
135,400
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Lodi, WI
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
107,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Brisbane, Australia
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
19,700
 
Leased
 
December 2012
 

New South Wales, Australia
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
50,500
 
Leased
 
September 2015
 

Sao Paulo,  Brazil
 
Warehousing and Offices
 
 
12,800
 
Leased
 
May 2014
 

Quebec City, Canada
 
Warehousing and Offices
 
 
36,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Shanghai, China
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
37,500
 
Leased
 
July 2012
 

Randers, Denmark
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
79,400
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Mauron, France
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
37,400
 
Leased
 
April 2016
 

Reichenau, Germany
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
72,000
 
Leased
 
June 2016
 

Scandicco, Italy
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
106,350
 
Leased
 
March 2020
 

Guadalupe, Mexico
 
Manufacturing ,Warehousing and Offices
 
 
117,600
 
Leased
 
December 2014
 

Laguna, the Philippines
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
83,100
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Lincoln, the United Kingdom
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
100,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Warwickshire, the United Kingdom
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
12,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

Wrexham, the United Kingdom
 
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Offices
 
 
68,000
 
Owned
 
N/A
 

 
At
various other locations the company leases small amounts of office space for administrative and sales functions, and in certain
instances limited short-term inventory storage. These locations are in Brazil, China, Italy, Mexico, Spain and the United Kingdom.
The company also has a leased manufacturing facility in Verdi, Nevada which was exited as part of the company's manufacturing consolidation
efforts in 2009. This lease extends through June 2012.
 
Management
believes that these facilities are adequate for the operation of the company's business as presently conducted.
 
Item 3.      Legal Proceedings
 
The company is routinely involved in litigation
incidental to its business, including product liability claims, which are partially covered by insurance or in certain cases by
indemnification provisions under purchase agreements for recently acquired companies. Such routine claims are vigorously contested
and management does not believe that the outcome of any such pending litigation will have a material effect upon the financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows of the company.
 
Item 4.      Mine Safety Issues
 
Not Applicable
 

15
 

 
PART II
 
Item 5.      Market for Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
Principal Market
 
The
company's Common Stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol "MIDD". The following table sets forth, for
the periods indicated, the high and low closing sale prices per share of Common Stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market.
 


  
Closing Share Price 

  
High  
Low 

Fiscal 2011 
   
  

First quarter 
 94.84  
 80.55 

Second quarter 
 96.25  
 79.70 

Third quarter 
 97.74  
 65.39 

Fourth quarter 
 98.00  
 66.36 

  
    
   

Fiscal 2010 
    
   

First quarter 
 59.52  
 42.17 

Second quarter 
 65.01  
 52.66 

Third quarter 
 63.93  
 53.28 

Fourth quarter 
 86.35  
 63.86 

 
Shareholders
 
The company estimates there were approximately
34,000 record holders of the company's common stock as of February 24, 2012.
 
Dividends
 
The company does not currently pay cash
dividends on its common stock. Any future payment of cash dividends on the company’s common stock will be at the discretion
of the company’s Board of Directors and will depend upon the company’s results of operations, earnings, capital requirements,
contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The company’s Board of Directors currently
intends to retain any future earnings to support its operations and to finance the growth and development of the company’s
business and does not intend to declare or pay cash dividends on its common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, the
company’s revolving credit facility limits its ability to declare or pay dividends on its common stock.
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities
 


  
Total Number of Shares Purchased  
Average Price Paid per Share  
Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plan or Program  
Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plan or Program 

October 2, 2011 to October 29, 2011 
 38,300  
$68.72  
 38,300  
 259,817 

October 30, 2011 to November 26, 2011 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 259,817 

November 27, 2011 to December 31, 2011 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 259,817 

Quarter ended December 31, 2011 
 38,300  
$68.72  
 38,300  
 259,817 

 
In July 1998, the company's Board of Directors
adopted a stock repurchase program and subsequently authorized the purchase of up to 1,800,000 common shares in open market purchases.
As of December 31, 2011, 1,540,183 shares had been purchased under the 1998 stock repurchase program.
 
In May 2007, the company’s Board of
Directors approved a two-for-one stock split of the company’s common stock in the form of a stock dividend. The stock split
was paid to shareholders of record as of June 1, 2007. The company’s stock began trading on a stock-adjusted basis on June
18, 2007. The stock split effectively doubled the number of shares outstanding at June 15, 2007.
 
At December 31, 2011, the company had a
total of 4,437,428 shares in treasury amounting to $126.7 million.
 

16
 

 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
 
(amounts in thousands, except per
share data)
Fiscal
Year Ended(1)
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2008  
2007 

Income Statement Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Net sales 
$855,907  
$719,121  
$646,629  
$651,888  
$500,472 

Cost of sales 
 511,770  
 432,444  
 396,001  
 403,746  
 308,107 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 344,137  
 286,677  
 250,628  
 248,142  
 192,365 

Selling and distribution expenses 
 91,113  
 75,772  
 64,239  
 63,593  
 50,769 

General and administrative expenses 
 104,314  
 88,117  
 74,948  
 64,931  
 48,663 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Income from operations 
 148,710  
 122,788  
 111,441  
 119,618  
 92,933 

Interest expense and deferred financing amortization, net 
 8,503  
 8,592  
 11,594  
 12,982  
 5,855 

Debt extinguishment expenses 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 481 

Loss on financing derivatives 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 314 

Other (income) expense, net 
 (241) 
 (40) 
 121  
 2,414  
 (1,696)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings before income taxes 
 140,448  
 114,236  
 99,726  
 104,222  
 87,979 

Provision for income taxes 
 44,975  
 41,369  
 38,570  
 40,321  
 35,365 

Net earnings 
$95,473  
$72,867  
$61,156  
$63,901  
$52,614 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings per share: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$5.30  
$4.09  
$3.47  
$4.00  
$3.35 

Diluted 
$5.15  
$3.97  
$3.29  
$3.75  
$3.11 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Weighted average number of shares outstanding: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
 17,998  
 17,801  
 17,605  
 15,978  
 15,694 

Diluted 
 18,534  
 18,337  
 18,575  
 17,030  
 16,938 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Balance Sheet Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

Working capital 
$(182,234) 
$79,807  
$70,670  
$68,198  
$61,573 

Total assets 
 1,146,512  
 873,172  
 816,346  
 654,498  
 413,647 

Total debt 
 317,335  
 214,017  
 275,641  
 234,700  
 96,197 

Stockholders' equity 
 510,969  
 424,913  
 342,655  
 227,960  
 182,912 

 

(1)The company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to
December 31.
 

17
 

 
Item 7.      Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial 	Condition and Results of Operations
 
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This
report contains "forward-looking statements" subject to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking
statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which could cause the company's actual results, performance
or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. The following are some of the
important factors that could cause the company's actual results, performance or outcomes to differ materially from those discussed
in the forward-looking statements:
 

·changing market conditions;
 

·volatility in earnings resulting from goodwill impairment losses, which may occur irregularly and in varying amounts;
 

·variability in financing costs;
 

·quarterly variations in operating results;
 

·dependence on key customers;
 

·risks associated with the company's foreign operations, including market acceptance and demand for the company's products and
the company's ability to manage the risk associated with the exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;
 

·the company's ability to protect its trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property;
 

·the impact of competitive products and pricing;
 

·the timely development and market acceptance of the company's products; and
 

·the availability and cost of raw materials.
 
The company cautions readers to carefully
consider the statements set forth in the section entitled "Item 1A Risk Factors" of this filing and discussion of risks
included in the company's SEC filings.
 

18
 

 
NET SALES SUMMARY
(dollars
in thousands)
 


Fiscal Year Ended(1)

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
Sales  
Percent  
Sales  
Percent  
Sales  
Percent 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Business Segments: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Commercial Foodservice 
$723,274  
 84.5% 
$611,596  
 85.0% 
$580,704  
 89.8%

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Food Processing 
 132,633  
 15.5  
 107,525  
 15.0  
 65,925  
 10.2 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Total 
$855,907  
 100.0% 
$719,121  
 100.0% 
$646,629  
 100.0%

 

 


(1)The company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest
to December 31.
 
Results of Operations
 
The
following table sets forth certain items in the consolidated statements of earnings as a percentage of net sales for the periods
presented:
 


  
Fiscal
    Year Ended(1) 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Net sales 
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
 100.0%

Cost of sales 
 59.8  
 60.1  
 61.2 

Gross profit 
 40.2  
 39.9  
 38.8 

Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 22.8  
 22.8  
 21.6 

Income from operations 
 17.4  
 17.1  
 17.2 

  
    
    
   

Interest expense and deferred financing   amortization, net 
 1.0  
 1.2  
 1.8 

Other (income) expense, net 
 —  
 —  
 — 

Earnings before income taxes 
 16.4  
 15.9  
 15.4 

Provision for income taxes 
 5.2  
 5.8  
 5.9 

Net earnings 
 11.2% 
 10.1% 
 9.5%

 

(1)The company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest
to December 31.
 

19
 

 
Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to January
1, 2011
 
Net sales. Net sales
in fiscal 2011 increased by $136.8 million or 19.0% to $855.9 million as compared to $719.1 million in fiscal 2010. The increase
in net sales of $86.3 million, or 12.0%, was attributable to acquisition growth, resulting from the fiscal 2010 acquisitions of
PerfectFry and Cozzini and the fiscal 2011 acquisitions of Beech, Lincat, Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake and Armor Inox.
 Excluding acquisitions, net sales increased $50.5 million, or 7.0%, from the prior year, reflecting a net sales increase
of 11.6% at the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group offset by a decline of 18.9% at the Food Processing Equipment Group.
 

·Net sales of
                                                                                                              the Commercial Foodservice
                                                                                                              Equipment Group
                                                                                                              increased by $111.7
                                                                                                              million or 18.3%
                                                                                                              to $723.3 million
                                                                                                              in fiscal 2011,
                                                                                                              as compared to $611.6
                                                                                                              million in fiscal
                                                                                                              2010. Net sales
                                                                                                              from the acquisitions
                                                                                                              of PerfectFry, Beech,
                                                                                                              and Lincat, which
                                                                                                              were acquired on
                                                                                                              July 13, 2010, April
                                                                                                              4, 2011 and May
                                                                                                              27, 2011, respectively,
                                                                                                              accounted for an
                                                                                                              increase of $40.9
                                                                                                              million during fiscal
                                                                                                              2011. Excluding
                                                                                                              the impact of acquisitions,
                                                                                                              net sales of Commercial
                                                                                                              Foodservice Equipment
                                                                                                              increased $70.8
                                                                                                              million, or 11.6%,
                                                                                                              as compared to the
                                                                                                              prior year. International
                                                                                                              sales increased
                                                                                                              $70.7 million, or
                                                                                                              55.8%, to $197.9
                                                                                                              million, as compared
                                                                                                              to $127.2 million
                                                                                                              in the prior year.
                                                                                                              This includes the
                                                                                                              increase of $40.9
                                                                                                              million from the
                                                                                                              recent acquisitions,
                                                                                                              as these companies
                                                                                                              primarily have international
                                                                                                              sales. The increase
                                                                                                              in international
                                                                                                              sales reflects continued
                                                                                                              market penetration
                                                                                                              resulting from investments
                                                                                                              in the international
                                                                                                              selling organization
                                                                                                              over the past several
                                                                                                              years and growing
                                                                                                              business in emerging
                                                                                                              markets where the
                                                                                                              company is well
                                                                                                              positioned. Domestically,
                                                                                                              the company also
                                                                                                              realized a sales
                                                                                                              increase of $41.0
                                                                                                              million, or 8.5%,
                                                                                                              to $525.4 million,
                                                                                                              as compared to $484.4
                                                                                                              million in the prior
                                                                                                              year. This increase
                                                                                                              in domestic sales
                                                                                                              includes increased
                                                                                                              sales with major
                                                                                                              restaurant chains
                                                                                                              on new product initiatives
                                                                                                              and improvements
                                                                                                              in general market
                                                                                                              conditions.
 

·Net sales of
                                                                                                              the Food Processing
                                                                                                              Equipment Group
                                                                                                              increased by $25.1
                                                                                                              million or 23.3%
                                                                                                              to $132.6 million
                                                                                                              in fiscal 2011,
                                                                                                              as compared to $107.5
                                                                                                              million in fiscal
                                                                                                              2010.  Net
                                                                                                              sales from the acquisition
                                                                                                              of Cozzini, Danfotech,
                                                                                                              Maurer, Auto-Bake,
                                                                                                              Drake, and Armor
                                                                                                              Inox which were
                                                                                                              acquired on September
                                                                                                              21, 2010, July 5,
                                                                                                              2011, July 22, 2011,
                                                                                                              August 1, 2011,
                                                                                                              December 2, 2011
                                                                                                              and December 21,
                                                                                                              2011, respectively,
                                                                                                              accounted for an
                                                                                                              increase of $45.4
                                                                                                              million.  Excluding
                                                                                                              the impact of acquisitions,
                                                                                                              net sales of Food
                                                                                                              Processing Equipment
                                                                                                              decreased $20.3
                                                                                                              million, or 18.9%.
                                                                                                              International sales
                                                                                                              amounted to $44.9
                                                                                                              million in 2011,
                                                                                                              an increase of 77.5%
                                                                                                              over sales of $25.3
                                                                                                              million in 2010,
                                                                                                              while domestic sales
                                                                                                              amounted to $87.7
                                                                                                              million in 2011
                                                                                                              an increase of 6.7%
                                                                                                              over sales of $82.2
                                                                                                              million in 2010.
                                                                                                              Excluding the impact
                                                                                                              of acquisitions,
                                                                                                              international sales
                                                                                                              decreased $5.6 million
                                                                                                              while domestic sales
                                                                                                              decreased $14.7
                                                                                                              million. The prior
                                                                                                              year sales of the
                                                                                                              Food Processing
                                                                                                              Group reflected
                                                                                                              the benefit of orders
                                                                                                              that had been delayed
                                                                                                              during the 2008
                                                                                                              and 2009 economic
                                                                                                              downturn. These
                                                                                                              orders were deferred
                                                                                                              to 2010 resulting
                                                                                                              in stronger sales
                                                                                                              for the period.
                                                                                                              As a result, 2011
                                                                                                              sales for the group
                                                                                                              were less favorable
                                                                                                              than those in 2010,
                                                                                                              although significantly
                                                                                                              better than 2008
                                                                                                              and 2009, and market
                                                                                                              conditions remain
                                                                                                              favorable. Additionally,
                                                                                                              due to the nature
                                                                                                              of large orders
                                                                                                              associated with
                                                                                                              this business, the
                                                                                                              timing of orders
                                                                                                              impacts the growth
                                                                                                              in comparative periods.
                                                                                                              During 2011, while
                                                                                                              order rates were
                                                                                                              relatively consistent
                                                                                                              year over year,
                                                                                                              the timing of orders
                                                                                                              in the current year
                                                                                                              was stronger in
                                                                                                              the second half
                                                                                                              of the year. However,
                                                                                                              due to the long
                                                                                                              lead times less
                                                                                                              revenue was recognized
                                                                                                              in the current year
                                                                                                              period from orders
                                                                                                              received during
                                                                                                              the year.
 
Gross profit. Gross
profit increased by $57.4 million to $344.1 million in fiscal 2011 from $286.7 million in fiscal 2010. The gross margin rate increased
from 40.0% in 2010 to 40.2% in 2011. The net increase in the gross margin rate reflects the benefit of increased sales volumes
and margin improvement related to acquisition integration initiatives, offset in part by lower margins at newly acquired companies.
 

·Gross profit
                                                                                                              at the Commercial
                                                                                                              Foodservice Equipment
                                                                                                              Group increased
                                                                                                              by $48.8 million,
                                                                                                              or 19.5%, to $298.5
                                                                                                              million in fiscal
                                                                                                              2011 as compared
                                                                                                              to $249.7 million
                                                                                                              in fiscal 2010.
                                                                                                              The gross margin
                                                                                                              rate improved to
                                                                                                              41.3% as compared
                                                                                                              to 39.8% in the
                                                                                                              prior year. Gross
                                                                                                              profit from the
                                                                                                              acquisitions of
                                                                                                              Beech and Lincat,
                                                                                                              which were acquired
                                                                                                              during fiscal 2011,
                                                                                                              accounted for approximately
                                                                                                              $14.8 million of
                                                                                                              the increase in
                                                                                                              gross profit during
                                                                                                              fiscal 2011. Excluding
                                                                                                              the recent acquisitions,
                                                                                                              the gross profit
                                                                                                              increased by approximately
                                                                                                              $34.0 million on
                                                                                                              the higher sales
                                                                                                              volumes. The gross
                                                                                                              profit margin rate
                                                                                                              benefited from increased
                                                                                                              volumes which resulted
                                                                                                              in greater absorption
                                                                                                              of fixed production
                                                                                                              costs as well as
                                                                                                              improved profit
                                                                                                              margins resulting
                                                                                                              from acquisition
                                                                                                              integration initiatives
                                                                                                              implemented during
                                                                                                              fiscal 2011 and
                                                                                                              prior years. The
                                                                                                              margin rate also
                                                                                                              benefitted from
                                                                                                              lower warranty costs
                                                                                                              which had been higher
                                                                                                              in the prior year
                                                                                                              due to initial costs
                                                                                                              associated with
                                                                                                              new product introductions.
 

·Gross profit
                                                                                                              at the Food Processing
                                                                                                              Equipment Group
                                                                                                              increased by $9.0
                                                                                                              million, or 24.5%,
                                                                                                              to $45.8 million
                                                                                                              in fiscal 2011 as
                                                                                                              compared to $36.8
                                                                                                              million in fiscal
                                                                                                              2010.  The
                                                                                                              gross profit margin
                                                                                                              rate improved to
                                                                                                              34.5% as compared
                                                                                                              to 34.2% in the
                                                                                                              prior year. Gross
                                                                                                              profit from the
                                                                                                              acquisitions of
                                                                                                              Cozzini, Danfotech,
                                                                                                              Maurer, Auto-Bake,
                                                                                                              Drake, and Armor
                                                                                                              Inox, accounted
                                                                                                              for approximately
                                                                                                              $13.5 million of
                                                                                                              the increase. Excluding
                                                                                                              the recent acquisitions,
                                                                                                              the gross profit
                                                                                                              declined approximately
                                                                                                              $4.5 million due
                                                                                                              to lower net sales
                                                                                                              as compared to the
                                                                                                              prior year. 
                                                                                                              The gross profit
                                                                                                              margin rate improved
                                                                                                              slightly as improvement
                                                                                                              from integration
                                                                                                              activities related
                                                                                                              the Cozzini business
                                                                                                              acquired in 2010
                                                                                                              was offset by lower
                                                                                                              margins at the business
                                                                                                              acquired in fiscal
                                                                                                              2011.
 

20
 

 
Selling, general and administrative
expenses. Combined selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by $31.5 million to $195.4 million in fiscal
2011 from $163.9 million in 2010.  As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses amounted to 22.8% in fiscal 2010 and
fiscal 2011.
 
Selling expenses increased $15.3 million
to $91.1 million from $75.8 million, reflecting an increase of $13.4 million associated with the recently acquired PerfectFry,
Cozzini, Beech, Lincat, Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake and Armor Inox operations. Additionally, expenses increased $1.5 million
due to increased trade show and marketing related costs.
 
General and administrative expenses increased
$16.2 million to $104.3 million from $88.1 million, reflecting an increase of $10.0 million associated with the recently acquired
PerfectFry, Cozzini, Beech, Lincat, Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake and Armor Inox operations. General and administrative
expenses also included a $3.5 million increase in non-cash share based compensation, a $2.7 million increase in incentive compensation,
a $3.7 million increase in professional fees associated with acquisition related activities and legal matters and a $1.2 million
increase in pension costs. General and administrative expenses were offset by a $1.3 million decrease in bad debt expenses and
a $1.1 million reduction in amounts due to sellers on contingent earnout arrangements related to a prior year acquisition. Additionally,
in 2010, $1.7 million of non-recurring charges associated with plant consolidation initiatives relating to the acquisitions of
Doyon and PerfectFry were recorded, while no such charges were recorded in 2011.
 
Income from operations.
Income from operations increased $25.9 million to $148.7 million in fiscal 2011 from $122.8 million in fiscal 2010. The increase
in operating income resulted from the increase in net sales and gross profit. Operating income as a percentage of net sales increased
to 17.4% in 2011 from 17.1% in 2010.
 
Income from operations in 2011 included
$37.2 million of non-cash expenses, including $6.9 million of depreciation expense, $12.2 million of intangible amortization related
to acquisitions and $18.1 million of stock based compensation. This compares to $31.2 million of non-cash expenses in the prior
year, including $5.9 million of depreciation expense, $10.6 million of intangible amortization related to acquisitions, and $14.7
million of stock based compensation costs. Operating income excluding these non-cash expenses, amounted to $185.9 million, or
21.7%, of net sales in fiscal 2011 as compared to $154.0 million, or 21.4%, of net sales in 2010.
 
Non-operating expenses.
Non-operating expenses decreased $0.3 million to $8.3 million in fiscal 2011 from $8.6 million in fiscal 2010. Net interest expense
decreased $0.1 million from $8.6 million in fiscal 2010 to $8.5 million in fiscal 2011 as a result of lower average interest rates
during the year offset in part by higher average debt balances. Other income was $0.2 million in fiscal 2011 as compared to other
income of less than $0.1 million in fiscal 2010.
 
Income taxes. A tax
provision of $45.0 million, at an effective rate of 32.0%, was recorded for fiscal 2011 as compared to $41.4 million at an effective
rate of 36.2%, in fiscal 2010.  The current year effective tax rate is comprised of a 35.0% U.S. federal tax rate and 3.0%
in U.S. state income taxes, net of 2.1% in tax relief for U.S. manufacturers, 1.1% in permanent tax deductions, 1.5% in foreign
rate differentials and 1.3% in other adjustments benefitting the effective rate.  In comparison to the prior year, tax provision
reflects a lower effective rate on increased income in lower tax rate foreign jurisdictions, reduced state tax provisions resulting
from increased income in lower rate jurisdictions, and adjustments to tax reserves for reduced tax exposures, which benefitted
the effective tax rate by 1.2%, 1.1% and 1.9%, respectively, as compared to the prior year. 
 

21
 

 
Fiscal Year Ended January 1, 2011 as Compared to January
2, 2010
 
Net sales. Net sales
in fiscal 2010 increased by $72.5 million or 11.3% to $719.1 million as compared to $646.6 million in fiscal 2009. The increase
in net sales of $37.8 million, or 5.9%, was attributable to acquisition growth, resulting from the fiscal 2009 acquisitions of
Cooktek, Anets and Doyon and the fiscal 2010 acquisitions of PerfectFry and Cozzini.  Excluding acquisitions, net sales increased
$34.7 million, or 5.4%, from the prior year. Sales of both the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group and the Food Processing
Equipment Group increased, reflecting improving market conditions as compared to fiscal 2009. 
 

·Net sales of
                                                                                                              the Commercial Foodservice
                                                                                                              Equipment Group
                                                                                                              increased by $30.9
                                                                                                              million or 5.3%
                                                                                                              to $611.6 million
                                                                                                              in fiscal 2010 as
                                                                                                              compared to $580.7
                                                                                                              million in fiscal
                                                                                                              2009. Net sales
                                                                                                              from the acquisitions
                                                                                                              of CookTek, Anets,
                                                                                                              Doyon and PerfectFry
                                                                                                              which were acquired
                                                                                                              on April 27, 2009,
                                                                                                              April 30, 2009,
                                                                                                              December 14, 2009,
                                                                                                              July 13, 2010 and
                                                                                                              September 21, 2010,
                                                                                                              respectively, accounted
                                                                                                              for an increase
                                                                                                              of $19.2 million
                                                                                                              during fiscal 2010.
                                                                                                              Excluding the impact
                                                                                                              of acquisitions,
                                                                                                              net sales of Commercial
                                                                                                              Foodservice Equipment
                                                                                                              increased $11.7
                                                                                                              million, or 2.0%,
                                                                                                              as compared to the
                                                                                                              prior year. The
                                                                                                              prior year sales
                                                                                                              included a significant
                                                                                                              order associated
                                                                                                              with an oven rollout
                                                                                                              to support a new
                                                                                                              menu initiative
                                                                                                              with a major chain
                                                                                                              customer. Excluding
                                                                                                              this order and acquisition
                                                                                                              growth, sales increased
                                                                                                              8.5% in fiscal 2010.
                                                                                                              This growth reflects
                                                                                                              an increase in international
                                                                                                              business as the
                                                                                                              company realized
                                                                                                              increased business
                                                                                                              related to the expansion
                                                                                                              of chain restaurants
                                                                                                              in emerging markets.
                                                                                                              Domestically, the
                                                                                                              company also realized
                                                                                                              sales improvement,
                                                                                                              which accelerated
                                                                                                              in the second half
                                                                                                              of the year as general
                                                                                                              market conditions
                                                                                                              improved and major
                                                                                                              chain customers
                                                                                                              increased their
                                                                                                              development activities.
 

·Net sales of
                                                                                                              the Food Processing
                                                                                                              Equipment Group
                                                                                                              increased by $41.6
                                                                                                              million or 63.1%
                                                                                                              to $107.5 million
                                                                                                              in fiscal 2010,
                                                                                                              as compared to $65.9
                                                                                                              million in fiscal
                                                                                                              2009.  Net
                                                                                                              sales from the acquisition
                                                                                                              of Cozzini, which
                                                                                                              was acquired on
                                                                                                              September 21, 2010,
                                                                                                              accounted for an
                                                                                                              increase of $18.6
                                                                                                              million.  Excluding
                                                                                                              the impact of acquisition,
                                                                                                              net sales of Food
                                                                                                              Processing Equipment
                                                                                                              increased $23.0
                                                                                                              million or 34.9%.
                                                                                                               Net sales
                                                                                                              growth in this business
                                                                                                              segment reflects
                                                                                                              improving market
                                                                                                              conditions as food
                                                                                                              processing operations
                                                                                                              increased their
                                                                                                              capital spending. 
                                                                                                              Numerous projects
                                                                                                              which had been deferred
                                                                                                              in 2008 and 2009
                                                                                                              during the economic
                                                                                                              downturn were realized
                                                                                                              in 2010.  Additionally,
                                                                                                              international sales
                                                                                                              benefitted from
                                                                                                              increasing development
                                                                                                              and expansion of
                                                                                                              food processing
                                                                                                              operations in emerging
                                                                                                              markets as demand
                                                                                                              for processed food
                                                                                                              in retail and restaurant
                                                                                                              locations increases.
 
Gross profit. Gross
profit increased by $36.1 million to $286.7 million in fiscal 2010 from $250.6 million in fiscal 2009. The gross margin rate increased
from 38.8% in 2009 to 40.0% in 2010. The net increase in the gross margin rate reflects:
 

·Improved margins
                                                                                                              at certain of the
                                                                                                              newly acquired operating
                                                                                                              companies that have
                                                                                                              improved due to
                                                                                                              acquisition integration
                                                                                                              initiatives, including
                                                                                                              costs savings from
                                                                                                              plant consolidations.
                                                                                                              In 2009, the company
                                                                                                              closed a manufacturing
                                                                                                              facility in Nevada
                                                                                                              and transferred
                                                                                                              production to another
                                                                                                              of its manufacturing
                                                                                                              facilities. The
                                                                                                              expected annual
                                                                                                              cost savings in
                                                                                                              gross profit at
                                                                                                              that time was $4.5
                                                                                                              million. In 2010,
                                                                                                              the company realized
                                                                                                              approximately $2.8
                                                                                                              million of cost
                                                                                                              savings in gross
                                                                                                              profit from the
                                                                                                              initiative.
 

·Benefit from
                                                                                                              increased sales
                                                                                                              volumes offset by
                                                                                                              a less favorable
                                                                                                              product mix
 

·Cost reduction
                                                                                                              initiatives that
                                                                                                              were instituted
                                                                                                              in 2009 due to economic
                                                                                                              conditions
 
Selling, general and administrative
expenses. Combined selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by $24.7 million to $163.9 million in fiscal
2010 from $139.2 million in 2009.  As a percentage of net sales, operating expenses amounted to 22.8% in 2010 as compared
to 21.6% in fiscal 2009.
 
Selling expenses increased $11.6 million
to $75.8 million from $64.2 million, reflecting an increase of $5.4 million associated with the recently acquired Cooktek, Anets,
Doyon, PerfectFry and Cozzini operations, an increase of $4.1 million in commissions resulting from the increase in sales and
$1.5 million in increased marketing related costs.
 
General and administrative expenses increased
$13.2 million to $88.1 million from $74.9 million, reflecting an increase of $4.2 million associated with the recently acquired
Cooktek, Anets, Doyon, PerfectFry and Cozzini operations. General and administrative expenses also included a $9.9 million increase
in incentive compensation associated with improvement in financial results and a $4.0 million increase in non-cash share based
compensation offset by reduced professional fees and other administrative expenses.  Additionally, $1.7 million of non-recurring
charges associated with plant consolidation initiatives relating to the recently acquired Doyon and Perfectfry businesses were
recorded in fiscal 2010.  This compares to $5.1 million of non-recurring plant consolidation costs recorded in the prior
year.
 

22
 

 
Income from operations.
Income from operations increased $11.4 million to $122.8 million in fiscal 2010 from $111.4 million in fiscal 2009. The increase
in operating income resulted from the increase in net sales and gross profit. Operating income as a percentage of net sales decreased
from 17.2% in 2009 to 17.1% in 2010.
 
Non-operating expenses.
Non-operating expenses decreased $3.1 million to $8.6 million in fiscal 2010 from $11.7 million in fiscal 2009. Net interest expense
decreased $3.0 million from $11.6 million in fiscal 2009 to $8.6 million in fiscal 2010 as a result of lower borrowing costs resulting
from the decline in interest rates in 2010. Other income was less than $0.1 million in fiscal 2010 as compared to other expense
of $0.1 million in fiscal 2009.
 
Income taxes. A tax
provision of $41.4 million, at an effective rate of 36.2%, was recorded for fiscal 2010 as compared to $38.6 million at a 38.7%
effective rate in fiscal 2009.  The reduction in the effective rate reflects an increase in deductions related to domestic
manufacturing activities and non-recurring expenses associated with acquisition costs.
 
Financial Condition and Liquidity
 
Total cash and cash equivalents increased
by $32.5 million to $40.2 million at December 31, 2011 from $7.7 million at January 1, 2011. Net borrowings increased to $317.3
million at December 31, 2011, from $214.0 million at January 1, 2011.
 
Operating activities.
Net cash provided by operating activities after changes in assets and liabilities amounted to $130.4 million as compared to $98.0
million in the prior year. 
 
Adjustments to reconcile 2011 net earnings
to operating cash flows included $6.9 million of depreciation and $12.8 million of amortization, $18.1 million of non-cash stock
compensation expense and $5.4 million of deferred tax benefit.
 
The changes in working capital included
a $19.0 million increase in accounts receivable as a result of increased sales volumes. Inventories increased by $2.3 million
as a result of increased order rates and higher levels of stock associated with foreign sales initiatives, offset in part by inventory
reductions resulting from plant consolidation initiatives completed in prior years. Accounts payable decreased $2.6 million as
a result of reduced purchasing volumes.  Accrued expenses and other liabilities increased by $13.1 million due in part to
increased accruals for sales rebates, commissions and incentive compensation associated with higher sales volumes and profit levels.
 
In connection with the company’s
acquisition activities during the year, the company added assets and liabilities from the opening balance sheets of the acquired
businesses in its consolidated balance sheets and accordingly these amounts are not reflected in the net change in working capital.
During fiscal 2011, the amounts of acquired working capital in the opening balance sheets included $23.4 million of accounts receivable,
$17.3 million of inventories, $13.9 million of accounts payable and $24.0 million of accrued liabilities. At December 31, 2011,
the balances of the ending combined balance sheets for these acquired business units amounted to $22.3 million of accounts receivable,
$14.8 million of inventories, $12.2 million of accounts payable and $29.0 million of accrued liabilities.
 
Investing activities.
During 2011, net cash used for investing activities amounted to $188.9 million. This included $177.4 million of current period
acquisitions, which included $13.0 million, $82.1 million, $6.1 million, $3.3 million, $22.5 million, $21.7 million and $28.7
million in connection with the acquisitions of Beech, Lincat, Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake and Armor Inox, respectively.
Investing activities also includes $3.7 million of deferred payments associated with acquisitions completed in prior years. Additional
investing activities included $7.8 million of additions and upgrades of production equipment, manufacturing facilities and training
equipment.
 
Financing activities.
Net cash flows provided by financing activities amounted to $91.6 million in 2011.   The company’s borrowing activities
included $102.2 million of net proceeds under its $600.0 million revolving credit facility and $0.9 million in net proceeds of
foreign borrowings.  Net borrowings were utilized primarily to fund the company’s acquisition activities and share
purchases.
 
The company repurchased $15.7 million of
Middleby common shares during the year. This was comprised of $9.5 million used to repurchase 113,550 shares of its common stock
that were surrendered to the company by employees in lieu of cash for payment for withholding of taxes related to restricted stock
vestings that occurred during the first quarter of 2011 and $6.2 million used to repurchase 90,068
shares of its common stock under a stock repurchase program. 
 

23
 

 
The company’s borrowings are primarily
under a senior revolving credit facility that provides for $600.0 million in total available borrowing capacity. At December 31,
2011, the company had $317.3 million of total debt, of which $309.4 million was borrowed under this facility. The senior revolving
facility matures on December 28, 2012, and accordingly has been classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance
sheet. The company anticipates it will enter into a new and similarly structured senior revolving credit facility during first
half of 2012 and is in discussions with its current lenders in this regard. The company does not foresee any difficulty in renewing
the facility given the financial position and performance of the company and its long standing relationships with its lending
partners.
 
At December 31, 2011, the company was in
compliance with all covenants pursuant to its borrowing agreements. Management believes that future cash flows from operating
activities and borrowings from current lenders will provide the company with sufficient financial resources to meet its anticipated
requirements for working capital, capital expenditures and debt amortization for the foreseeable future.
 
Contractual Obligations
 
The company's contractual cash payment obligations
are set forth below (dollars in thousands):
 


  
Amounts  
   
   
   
   
Total 

  
Due Sellers  
   
Estimated  
   
Idle  
Contractual 

  
From  
   
Interest  
Operating  
Facility  
Cash 

  
Acquisition  
Debt  
on Debt  
Leases  
Lease  
Obligations 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Less than 1 year 
$1,233  
$315,831  
$7,036  
$7,286  
$174  
$331,560 

1-3 years 
 2,165  
 234  
 575  
 8,206  
 —  
 11,180 

4-5 years 
 —  
 257  
 552  
 4,035  
 —  
 4,844 

After 5 years 
 —  
 1,013  
 —  
 1,685  
 —  
 2,698 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

  
$3,398  
$317,335  
$8,163  
$21,212  
$174  
$350,282 

 
The company has obligations to make $3.4
million of contingent purchase price payments to the sellers of Cooktek and Danfotech that were deferred in conjunction with the
acquisitions.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the company had
$309.4 million outstanding under its revolving credit line as part of its senior credit agreement. The average interest rate on
this debt amounted to 1.56% at December 31, 2011. This facility matures on December 28, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, the company
also has $7.9 million of debt outstanding under various foreign credit facilities. The estimated interest payments reflected in
the table above assume that the level of debt and average interest rate on the company’s revolving credit line under its
senior credit agreement does not change until the facility reaches maturity in December 2012. The estimated payments also assume
that relative to the company’s foreign borrowings: all scheduled term loan payments are made; the level of borrowings does
not change; and the average interest rates remain at their December 31, 2011 rates. Also reflected in the table above is $2.0 million
of payments to be made related to the company’s interest rate swap agreements in 2012.
 
Idle facility lease consists of an obligation
for a manufacturing location that was exited in 2009 in conjunction with the company's manufacturing consolidation efforts. This
lease obligation continues through June 2012. The obligation presented above does not reflect anticipated sublease income from
the facility.
 
As indicated in Note 10 to the consolidated
financial statements, the company’s projected benefit obligation under its defined benefit plans exceeded the plans’
assets by $22.6 million at the end of 2011 as compared to $10.7 million at the end of 2010.  The unfunded benefit obligations
were comprised of a $1.6 million underfunding of the company's union plan, $7.4 million underfunding of the company’s Smithville
plan, which was acquired as part of the Star acquisition, $2.2 million underfunding of the company’s Wrexham plan, which
was acquired as part of the Lincat acquisition, and $11.4 million underfunding of the company's director plans.  The company
made minimum contributions required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) of $0.2 million
and $0.3 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, to the company’s Smithville plan and $0.2 million and $0.1 million in 2011
and 2010, respectively, to the company's union plan.  The company expects to continue to make minimum contributions to the
Smithville and union plans as required by ERISA, of $0.3 and $0.1 million, respectively, in 2012.  The company expects to
contribute $0.5 million to the Wrexham plan in 2012.
 
The company places purchase orders with
its suppliers in the ordinary course of business. These purchase orders are generally to fulfill short-term manufacturing requirements
of less than 90 days and most are cancelable with a restocking penalty. The company has no long-term purchase contracts or minimum
purchase obligations with any supplier.
 
The company has no activities, obligations
or exposures associated with off-balance sheet arrangements.
 

24
 

 
Related Party Transactions
 
From December 31, 2011 through the date
hereof, there were no transactions between the company, its directors and executive officers that are required to be disclosed
pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K, promulgated under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

 
Management's discussion and analysis of
financial condition and results of operations are based upon the company's consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements
requires the company to make significant estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses as well as related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, the company evaluates its estimates and judgments based on historical
experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from
these estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences could be material to our consolidated financial
statements.
 
Revenue Recognition. At
the Commercial Foodservice Group, the company recognizes revenue on the sale of its products when risk of loss has passed to the
customer, which occurs at the time of shipment, and collectibility is reasonably assured. The sale prices of the products sold
are fixed and determinable at the time of shipment. Sales are reported net of sales returns, sales incentives and cash discounts
based on prior experience and other quantitative and qualitative factors.
 
At the Food Processing Equipment Group,
the company enters into long-term sales contracts for certain products that are often significant relative to the business. Revenue
under these long-term sales contracts is recognized using the percentage of completion method defined within ASC 605-35 “Construction-Type
and Production-Type Contracts” due to the length of time to fully manufacture and assemble the equipment. The company measures
revenue recognized based on the ratio of actual labor hours incurred in relation to the total estimated labor hours to be incurred
related to the contract. Because estimated labor hours to complete a project are based upon forecasts using the best available
information, the actual hours may differ from original estimates. The percentage of completion method of accounting for these contracts
most accurately reflects the status of these uncompleted contracts in the company's financial statements and most accurately measures
the matching of revenues with expenses. At the time a loss on a contract becomes known, the amount of the estimated loss is recognized
in the consolidated financial statements. Revenue for sales of products and services not covered by long-term sales contracts are
recognized risk of loss has passed to the customer, which occurs at the time of shipment, and collectibility is reasonably assured.
The sale prices of the products sold are fixed and determinable at the time of shipment. Sales are reported net of sales returns,
sales incentives and cash discounts based on prior experience and other quantitative and qualitative factors.
 
Inventories. Inventories
are stated at the lower of cost or or market using the first-in, first-out method for the majority of the company’s inventories.  The
company evaluates the need to record valuation adjustments for inventory on a regular basis.  The company’s policy
is to evaluate all inventories including raw material, work-in-process, finished goods, and spare parts.  Inventory in
excess of estimated usage requirements is written down to its estimated net realizable value.  Inherent in the estimates
of net realizable value are estimates related to our future manufacturing schedules, customer demand, possible alternative uses,
and ultimate realization of potentially excess inventory.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangibles.
The company’s business acquisitions result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which are a significant
portion of the company’s total assets. The company recognizes goodwill and other intangible assets under the guidance of
ASC Topic 350-10, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other.”  Goodwill represents the excess of acquisition costs
over the fair value of the net tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination. Identifiable
intangible assets are recognized separately from goodwill and include trademarks and trade names, technology, customer relationships
and other specifically identifiable assets.  Trademarks and trade names are deemed to be indefinite-lived. Goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets are not amortized, but are subject to impairment testing. On an annual basis, or more frequently if triggering
events occur, the company compares the estimated fair value to the carrying value to determine if a potential goodwill impairment
exists. If the fair value is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss, if any, is recorded for the difference between the
implied fair value and the carrying value of goodwill. In estimating the fair value of specific intangible assets, management relies
on a number of factors, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable
transactions and other market data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in
applying them in the impairment tests of goodwill and other intangible assets.
 

25
 

 
Income taxes.
The company provides deferred income tax assets and liabilities based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between
the financial and tax bases of assets and liabilities based on currently enacted tax laws. The company’s deferred and other
tax balances are based on management’s interpretation of the tax regulations and rulings in numerous taxing jurisdictions.
Income tax expense and liabilities recognized by the company also reflect its best estimates and assumptions regarding, among other
things, the level of future taxable income, the effect of the Company’s various tax planning strategies and uncertain tax
positions. Future tax authority rulings and changes in tax laws, changes in projected levels of taxable income and future tax planning
strategies could affect the actual effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by the company. The company follows the provisions
under ASC 740-10-25 that provides a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement recognition of a
tax benefit taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Tax benefits are recognized only when it is more likely than not, based
on the technical merits, that the benefits will be sustained on examination. Tax benefits that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition
threshold are measured using a probability weighting of the largest amount of tax benefit that has greater than 50% likelihood
of being realized upon settlement. Whether the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold is met for a particular tax benefit is
a matter of judgment based on the individual facts and circumstances evaluated in light of all available evidence as of the balance
sheet date.
 
New Accounting Pronouncements
 
In December 2010, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-29, “Business Combinations
(Topic 805).” ASU No. 2010-29 clarifies the disclosures required for pro forma information for business combinations. ASU
No. 2010-29 specifies if comparative financial statements are presented, revenue and earnings of a combined entity should be disclosed
as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior
annual reporting period only. The amendments in ASU 2010-29 are effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date
is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The company adopted
the provisions of ASU No. 2010-29 on January 2, 2011.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04,
“Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” This update
provides clarification on existing fair value measurement requirements, amends existing guidance primarily related to fair value
measurements for financial instruments, and requires enhanced disclosures on fair value measurements. The additional disclosures
are specific to Level 3 fair value measurements, transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, financial instruments
not measured at fair value and use of an asset measured or disclosed at fair value differing from its highest and best use. This
ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and will be applied prospectively. The
adoption of this guidance is not expected to affect the company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05,
“Presentation of Comprehensive Income,” which eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive
income in the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. Instead, entities will have the option to present the components
of net income, the components of other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in a single continuous statement or
in two separate but consecutive statements. The guidance does not change the items reported in other comprehensive income or when
an item of other comprehensive income is reclassified to net income. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, and will be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this guidance
will require a change in the presentation of comprehensive income and its components which are currently reported within the Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity. As this guidance only revises the presentation of comprehensive income, the
adoption of this guidance is not expected to affect the company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08,
“Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350),” This ASU will allow an entity the option to make a qualitative
evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether it should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit.
The ASU also amends previous guidance by expanding upon the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider
between annual impairment tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying amount. Also, the ASU provides additional examples of events and circumstances that an entity having a reporting
unit with a zero or negative carrying amount should consider in determining whether to measure an impairment loss, if any, under
the second step of the goodwill impairment test. This ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted, including for annual and interim goodwill
impairment tests performed as of a date before September 15, 2011, if an entity’s financial statements for the most recent
annual or interim period have not yet been issued. The company did not early adopt this ASU and is evaluating whether it will elect
to apply this option for qualitative evaluation in future goodwill impairment tests.
 

26
 

 
Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results
 
An investment in shares of the company's
common stock involves risks. The company believes the risks and uncertainties described in "Item 1A Risk Factors" and
in "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" are the material risks it faces. Additional risks and uncertainties
not currently known to the company or that it currently deems immaterial may impair its business operations. If any of the risks
identified in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" actually occurs, the company's business, results of operations and financial condition
could be materially adversely affected, and the trading price of the company's common stock could decline.
 

27
 

 
Item 7A.	      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure
about Market Risk 
 
Interest Rate Risk
 
The company is exposed to market risk related
to changes in interest rates. The following table summarizes the maturity of the company's debt obligations:
 


  
Fixed Rate Debt  
Variable Rate Debt 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
  

2012 
$—  
$315,831 

2013 
 —  
 115 

2014 
 —  
 119 

2015 
 —  
 125 

2016 and thereafter 
 —  
 1,145 

  
$—  
$317,335 

 
During the second quarter of 2011, the company
exercised a provision under its current credit facility that allowed the company to increase the amount of availability under the
revolving credit line by approximately $102.0 million. Terms of the company’s senior credit agreement provide for $600.0
million of availability under a revolving credit line which matures on December 28, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, the company
had $309.4 million of borrowings outstanding under this facility. The company also has $10.0 million in outstanding letters of
credit, which reduces the borrowing availability under the revolving credit line. Remaining borrowing availability under this facility,
which is also reduced by the company’s foreign borrowings, was $272.7 million at December 31, 2011.
 
At December 31, 2011, borrowings under the
senior secured credit facility were assessed at an interest rate at 1.00% above LIBOR for long-term borrowings or at the higher
of the Prime rate and the Federal Funds Rate. At December 31, 2011, the average interest rate on the senior debt amounted to 1.56%.
The interest rates on borrowings under the senior bank facility may be adjusted quarterly based on the company’s defined
indebtedness ratio on a rolling four-quarter basis. Additionally, a commitment fee, based upon the indebtedness ratio, is charged
on the unused portion of the revolving credit line. This variable commitment fee amounted to 0.20% as of December 31, 2011.
 
In August 2006, the company completed its
acquisition of Houno A/S in Denmark. This acquisition was funded in part with locally established debt facilities with borrowings
in Danish Krone.  On December 31, 2011, these facilities amounted to $3.3 million in U.S. dollars, including $1.7 million
outstanding under a revolving credit facility and $1.6 million of a term loan.  The interest rate on the revolving credit
facility is assessed at 1.25% above Euro LIBOR, which amounted to 3.05% on December 31, 2011. The term loan matures in 2013 and
the interest rate is assessed at 4.55%.  
 
In April 2008, the company completed its
acquisition of Giga Grandi Cucine S.r.l. in Italy. This acquisition was funded in part with locally established debt facilities
with borrowings denominated in Euro.  On December 31, 2011, these facilities amounted to $4.1 million in U.S. dollars.  The
interest rate on the credit facilities is tied to six-month Euro LIBOR. The facilities mature in April of 2015. At December 31,
2011, the average interest rate on these facilities was approximately 4.11%.
 
In December 2011, the company completed
its acquisition of Armor Inox in France. This acquisition was funded in part with locally established debt facilities with borrowings
denominated in Euro.  On December 31, 2011, these facilities amounted to $0.5 million in U.S. dollars.  The interest
rate on the credit facilities is tied to six-month Euro LIBOR. The facilities mature in April of 2015. At December 31, 2011, the
average interest rate on these facilities was approximately 3.15%.
 

28
 

 
The company has historically entered into
interest rate swap agreements to effectively fix the interest rate on a portion its outstanding debt. The agreements swap one-month
LIBOR for fixed rates. As of December 31, 2011, the company had the following interest rate swaps in effect.
 


   
Fixed  
   
  

Notional  
Interest  
Effective  
Maturity 

Amount  
Rate  
Date  
Date 

    
    
    
   

$20,000,000  
 1.800% 
 11/23/09  
 11/23/12 

 20,000,000  
 1.560% 
 03/11/10  
 12/11/12 

 10,000,000  
 1.120% 
 03/11/10  
 03/11/12 

 15,000,000  
 0.950% 
 08/06/10  
 12/06/12 

 25,000,000  
 1.610% 
 02/23/11  
 02/24/14 

 25,000,000  
 2.520% 
 02/23/11  
 02/23/16 

 25,000,000  
 0.975% 
 07/18/11  
 07/18/14 

 15,000,000  
 1.185% 
 09/12/11  
 09/12/16 

 15,000,000  
 0.620% 
 09/12/11  
 09/11/14 

 
The senior revolving facility matures on
December 28, 2012, and accordingly has been classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheet. The company anticipates
it will enter into a new and similarly structured senior revolving credit facility during first half of 2012 and is in discussions
with its current lenders in this regard. The company does not foresee any difficulty in renewing the facility given the financial
position and performance of the company and its long standing relationships with its lending partners.
 
The terms of the senior secured credit facility
limit the paying of dividends, capital expenditures and leases, and require, among other things, a maximum ratio of indebtedness
to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) of 3.5 and a minimum EBITDA to fixed charges
ratio of 1.25. The credit agreement also provides that if a material adverse change in the company’s business operations
or conditions occurs, the lender could declare an event of default. Under the terms of the agreement, a material adverse effect
is defined as (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business properties, condition
(financial and otherwise) or prospects of the company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability
of the company to perform under the loan agreements and to avoid any event of default; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the
legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the company of any loan document. A material adverse effect is determined
on a subjective basis by the company's creditors. The credit facility is secured by the capital stock of the company’s domestic
subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of the company’s foreign subsidiaries and substantially all other assets of the company.
At December 31, 2011, the company was in compliance with all covenants pursuant to its borrowing agreements.
 
Financing Derivative Instruments
 
The company has entered into interest rate
swaps to fix the interest rate applicable to certain of its variable-rate debt. The agreements swap one-month LIBOR for fixed rates.
The company has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges and all changes in fair value of the swaps are recognized in accumulated
other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of these instruments was a loss of $3.2 million. The change
in fair value of these swap agreements in fiscal 2011 was a liability of $0.6 million, net of taxes.
 
Foreign Exchange Derivative Financial
Instruments
 
The company uses derivative financial instruments,
principally foreign currency forward purchase and sale contracts with terms of less than one year, to hedge its exposure to changes
in foreign currency exchange rates. The company’s primary hedging activities are to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange
rates on intercompany and third party trade receivables and payables. The company does not currently enter into derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. In managing its foreign currency exposures, the company identifies and aggregates naturally
occurring offsetting positions and then hedges residual balance sheet exposures.
 
The company accounts for its derivative
financial instruments in accordance with ASC 815, "Derivatives and Hedging." In accordance with ASC 815, these instruments
are recognized on the balance sheet as either an asset or a liability measured at fair value. Changes in the market value and the
related foreign exchange gains and losses are recorded in the statement of earnings.
 

29
 

 
Item 8.      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 


 
Page

 
 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
31

 
 

Consolidated Balance Sheets
32

Consolidated Statements of Earnings
33

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
34

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
35

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
36

 
 

The following consolidated financial statement schedule is included in response to Item 15
 

 
 

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
72

 
All other schedules for which provision is made to applicable
regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instruction or are inapplicable and, therefore,
have been omitted.
 

30
 

 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
The Middleby Corporation
Elgin, Illinois
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of The Middleby Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 8. We also have
audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control – Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's
management is responsible for these financial statements and financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control
over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in
the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on these financial statements and financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial
reporting based on our audits.
 
As described in Management’s Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at J.W. Beech Pty.
Ltd (“Beech”), Lincat Group PLC (“Lincat”), Danfotech Inc. (“Danfotech”), Maurer-Atmos GmbH
(“Maurer”), Auto-Bake Pty. Ltd. (“Auto-Bake”), F.R. Drake Company (“Drake”), and Armor Inox
S.A. (“Armor Inox”), which were acquired on April 12, 2011; May 27, 2011; July 5, 2011; July 22, 2011; August 1, 2011;
December 2, 2011; and December 21, 2011, respectively. These acquisitions constitute 21.7% of total assets, 38.2% of net assets,
6.0% of net sales, and 2.4% of net income of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2011. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Beech, Lincat, Danfotech,
Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake, and Armor Inox.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on
a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the
risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing
similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements
due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness
of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of The Middleby Corporation and subsidiaries as of December
31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in
our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained,
in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established
in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
 
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois
March 12, 2012
 

31
 

 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS
DECEMBER
31, 2011 AND JANUARY 1, 2011
(amounts
in thousands, except share data)
 


  
2011  
2010 

ASSETS 
    
   

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$40,216  
$7,656 

Accounts receivable, net 
 151,441  
 112,049 

Inventories, net 
 124,300  
 106,463 

Prepaid expenses and other 
 12,336  
 11,971 

Current deferred taxes 
 39,090  
 25,520 

Total current assets 
 367,383  
 263,659 

Property, plant and equipment, net 
 62,507  
 43,656 

Goodwill 
 477,812  
 369,989 

Other intangibles 
 234,726  
 189,254 

Other assets 
 4,084  
 6,614 

Total assets 
$1,146,512  
$873,172 

  
    
   

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Current maturities of long-term debt 
$315,831  
$5,097 

Accounts payable 
 63,394  
 52,945 

Accrued expenses 
 170,392  
 125,810 

Total current liabilities 
 549,617  
 183,852 

Long-term debt 
 1,504  
 208,920 

Long-term deferred tax liability 
 37,845  
 11,858 

Other non-current liabilities 
 46,577  
 43,629 

Stockholders' equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; none issued 
 —  
 — 

Common stock, $0.01 par value, 23,093,338 and 22,691,821 shares issued in 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 137  
 137 

Paid-in capital 
 202,321  
 179,575 

Treasury stock at cost; 4,437,428 and 4,233,810  shares in 2011 and 2010, respectively 
 (126,682) 
 (111,019)

Retained earnings 
 455,727  
 360,254 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
 (20,534) 
 (4,034)

  
    
   

Total stockholders' equity 
 510,969  
 424,913 

  
    
   

Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 
$1,146,512  
$873,172 

 
The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
are
an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 

32
 

 
THE
MIDDLEBY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
FOR
THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, JANUARY 1, 2011
AND
JANUARY 2, 2010
(amounts in thousands, except per share
data)
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Net sales 
$855,907  
$719,121  
$646,629 

Cost of sales 
 511,770  
 432,444  
 396,001 

Gross profit 
 344,137  
 286,677  
 250,628 

Selling and distribution expenses 
 91,113  
 75,772  
 64,239 

General and administrative expenses 
 104,314  
 88,117  
 74,948 

Income from operations 
 148,710  
 122,788  
 111,441 

Interest expense and deferred financing amortization, net 
 8,503  
 8,592  
 11,594 

Other (income) expense, net 
 (241) 
 (40) 
 121 

Earnings before income taxes 
 140,448  
 114,236  
 99,726 

Provision for income taxes 
 44,975  
 41,369  
 38,570 

Net earnings 
$95,473  
$72,867  
$61,156 

  
    
    
   

Net earnings per share: 
    
    
   

Basic 
$5.30  
$4.09  
$3.47 

Diluted 
$5.15  
$3.97  
$3.29 

  
    
    
   

Weighted average number of shares 
    
    
   

Basic 
 17,998  
 17,801  
 17,605 

Dilutive common stock equivalents 
 536  
 536  
 970 

Diluted 
 18,534  
 18,337  
 18,575 

 
The
accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
are
an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 


33
 



 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES
IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2011, JANUARY 1, 2011
AND JANUARY 2, 2010
(amounts in thousands)
 


  
   
   
   
   
Accumulated  
  

  
   
   
   
   
Other  
Total 

  
Common  
Paid-in  
Treasury  
Retained  
Comprehensive  
Stockholders' 

  
Stock  
Capital  
Stock  
Earnings  
Income/(loss)  
Equity 

  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balance, January 3, 2009 
$120  
$107,305  
$(102,000) 
$230,797  
$(8,262) 
$227,960 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 61,156  
 -  
 61,156 

Currency translation adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,480  
 1,480 

Change in unrecognized pension benefit costs, net of tax of $(201) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 257  
 257 

Unrealized gain on interest rate swap, net of tax of $(1,104) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,656  
 1,656 

Comprehensive income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 61,156  
 3,393  
 64,549 

Exercise of stock options 
 -  
 391  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 391 

Stock issuance 
 16  
 44,032  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 44,048 

Stock compensation 
 -  
 10,721  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 10,721 

Tax benefit on stock compensation 
 -  
 (448) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (448)

Cumulative effect of adopting new accounting standard 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4,566) 
 -  
 (4,566)

Balance, January 2, 2010 
$136  
$162,001  
$(102,000) 
$287,387  
$(4,869) 
$342,655 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 72,867  
 -  
 72,867 

Currency translation adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 599  
 599 

Change in unrecognized pension benefit costs, net of tax of $105 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (187) 
 (187)

Unrealized gain on interest rate  swap, net of tax of $(342) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 423  
 423 

Comprehensive income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 72,867  
 835  
 73,702 

Exercise of stock options 
 -  
 666  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 666 

Stock issuance 
 1  
 1,776  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,777 

Stock compensation 
 -  
 14,682  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 14,682 

Tax benefit on stock compensation 
 -  
 450  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 450 

Purchase of treasury stock 
 -  
 -  
 (9,019) 
 -  
 -  
 (9,019)

Balance, January 1, 2011 
$137  
$179,575  
$(111,019) 
$360,254  
$(4,034) 
$424,913 

Comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net earnings 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 95,473  
 -  
 95,473 

Currency translation adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (10,769) 
 (10,769)

Change in unrecognized pension benefit costs, net of tax of $3,200 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (5,145) 
 (5,145)

Unrealized loss on interest rate swap, net of tax of $437 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (586) 
 (586)

Comprehensive income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 95,473  
 (16,500) 
 78,973 

Exercise of stock options 
 -  
 224  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 224 

Stock compensation 
 -  
 18,133  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 18,133 

Tax benefit on stock compensation 
 -  
 4,389  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4,389 

Purchase of treasury stock 
 -  
 -  
 (15,663) 
 -  
 -  
 (15,663)

Balance, December 31, 2011 
$137  
$202,321  
$(126,682) 
$455,727  
$(20,534) 
$510,969 

 
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements
are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.
 

34
 

 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2011, JANUARY 1, 2011
AND JANUARY 2, 2010
(amounts in thousands)

 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

Cash flows from operating activities— 
    
    
   

Net earnings 
$95,473  
$72,867  
$61,156 

Adjustments to reconcile net earnings to net cash provided by operating activities— 
    
    
   

Depreciation and amortization 
 19,708  
 17,014  
 15,888 

Non-cash share-based compensation 
 18,133  
 14,682  
 10,721 

Deferred taxes 
 5,421  
 1,420  
 11,123 

Unrealized loss/(gain) on derivative financial instruments 
 4  
 (7) 
 — 

Changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions 
    
    
   

Accounts receivable, net 
 (18,990) 
 (28,306) 
 23,145 

Inventories, net 
 (2,287) 
 (6,311) 
 17,257 

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 2,455  
 987  
 (8,731)

Accounts payable 
 (2,581) 
 10,912  
 (4,564)

Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 13,057  
 14,697  
 (25,221)

Net cash provided by operating activities 
 130,393  
 97,955  
 100,774 

Cash flows from investing activities— 
    
    
   

Additions to property and equipment 
 (7,840) 
 (3,159) 
 (5,731)

Acquisition of Giga 
 (1,603) 
 (1,621) 
 — 

Acquisition of TurboChef, net of cash acquired 
 —  
 —  
 (116,129)

Acquisition of CookTek 
 (86) 
 (1,000) 
 (8,000)

Acquisition of Anets 
 —  
 (500) 
 (3,358)

Acquisition of Doyon 
 —  
 (577) 
 (5,819)

Acquisition of PerfectFry, net of cash acquired 
 —  
 (4,607) 
 — 

Acquisition of Cozzini, net of cash acquired 
 (2,000) 
 (17,413) 
 — 

Acquisition of Beech, net of cash acquired 
 (12,959) 
 —  
 — 

Acquisition of Lincat, net of cash acquired 
 (82,130) 
 —  
 — 

Acquisition of Danfotech, net of cash acquired 
 (6,111) 
 —  
 — 

Acquisition of Maurer 
 (3,264) 
 —  
 — 

Acquisition of Auto-Bake, net of cash acquired 
 (22,524) 
 —  
 — 

Acquisition of Drake, net of cash acquired 
 (21,735) 
 —  
 — 

Acquisition of Armor Inox, net of cash acquired 
 (28,658) 
 —  
 — 

Net cash (used in) investing activities 
 (188,910) 
 (28,877) 
 (139,037)

Cash flows from financing activities— 
    
    
   

Net proceeds (repayments) under current revolving credit facilities 
 102,150  
 (58,650) 
 39,550 

Net proceeds (repayments) under foreign bank loan 
 862  
 (2,421) 
 (252)

Debt issuance costs 
 (373) 
 —  
 — 

Repurchase of treasury stock 
 (15,663) 
 (9,019) 
 — 

Excess tax benefit related to share-based compensation 
 4,389  
 (450) 
 (448)

Net proceeds from stock issuances 
 224  
 666  
 391 

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities 
 91,589  
 (69,874) 
 39,241 

  
    
    
   

Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 
 (512) 
 89  
 1,241 

  
    
    
   

Changes in cash and cash equivalents— 
    
    
   

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 
 32,560  
 (707) 
 2,219 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 7,656  
 8,363  
 6,144 

  
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$40,216  
$7,656  
$8,363 

  
    
    
   

Non-cash investing and financing activities: 
    
    
   

Stock issuance related to the acquisition of TurboChef 
$—  
$—  
$44,032 

Stock issuance related to the acquisition of Cozzini 
$—  
$1,776  
$— 

 
The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements
are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.
 

35
 

 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
NOTES
TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER
31, 2011, JANUARY 1, 2011
AND JANUARY 2, 2010
 

(1)NATURE OF OPERATIONS
 
The Middleby Corporation (the "company")
is engaged in the design, manufacture and sale of commercial foodservice and food processing equipment. The company manufactures
and assembles this equipment at fourteen U.S. production facilities and twelve international production facilities and manufacturing
facilities. The company operates in two business segments: 1) the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group and 2) the Food Processing
Equipment Group.
 
The Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group
has a broad portfolio of cooking and warming equipment, which enables it to serve virtually any cooking or warming application
within a commercial kitchen or foodservice operation. This cooking and warming equipment is used across all types of foodservice
operations, including quick-service restaurants, full-service restaurants, convenience stores, retail outlets, hotels and other
institutions. The products offered by this group include conveyor ovens, combi-ovens, convection ovens, baking ovens, proofing
ovens, deck ovens, speed cooking ovens, hydrovection ovens, ranges, fryers, rethermalizers, steam cooking equipment, warming equipment,
heated cabinets, charbroliers, ventless cooking systems, kitchen ventilation, induction cooking equipment, countertop cooking equipment,
toasters, and beverage equipment. 	
 
The Food Processing Equipment Group offers
a broad portfolio of processing solutions for customers producing pre-cooked meat products, such as hot dogs, dinner sausages,
poultry and lunchmeats and baked goods such as muffins, cookies and bread. Through its broad line of products, the company is able
to deliver a wide array of cooking solutions to service a variety of food processing requirements demanded by its customers. The
company can offer highly integrated solutions that provide a food processing operation a uniquely integrated solution providing
for the highest level of food quality, product consistency, and reduced operating costs resulting from increased product yields,
increased capacity and throughput and reduced labor costs though automation. The products offered by this group include a wide
array of cooking and baking solutions including, batch ovens, baking ovens, proofing ovens, conveyor ovens, continuous processing
ovens, and automated thermal processing systems. The company also provides a comprehensive portfolio of complementary food preparation
equipment such as grinders, slicers, emulsifiers, mixers, blenders, battering equipment, breading equipment, food presses, and
forming equipment, as well as a variety of food safety, freezing and packaging equipment. This portfolio of equipment can be integrated
to provide customers a highly efficient and customized solution.
 
The company purchases
raw materials and component parts, the majority of which are standard commodity type materials, from a number of suppliers. Although
certain component parts are procured from a sole source, the company can purchase such parts from alternate vendors.
 
The company has numerous trademarks, patents
and licenses to manufacture, use and sell its products and equipment. Management believes the loss of any one of these licenses
or patents would not have a material adverse effect on the financial and operating results of the company.
 

36
 

 

(2)ACQUISITIONS AND PURCHASE ACCOUNTING
 
The company operates in a highly
fragmented industry and has completed numerous acquisitions over the past several years as a component of its growth strategy.
The company has acquired industry leading brands and technologies to position itself as a leader in the commercial foodservice
equipment and food processing equipment industries.
 
The company has accounted for
all business combinations using the acquisition method to record a new cost basis for the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed has been recorded as
goodwill in the financial statements. The results of operations are reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the company
from the date of acquisition.
 
PerfectFry
 
On July 13, 2010, the company
completed its acquisition of substantially all of the assets and operations of PerfectFry Company LTD (“PerfectFry”),
a leading manufacturer of ventless countertop frying units for the commercial foodservice industry for a purchase price of approximately
$4.6 million, net of cash acquired.
 
The final allocation of cash paid
for the PerfectFry acquisition is summarized as follows (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
Jul 13, 2010  
Adjustments  
Jul 13, 2010 

  
   
   
  

Cash 
$247  
$—  
$247 

Current assets 
 1,949  
 (316) 
 1,633 

Goodwill 
 2,502  
 (296) 
 2,206 

Other intangibles 
 1,653  
 —  
 1,653 

Current liabilities 
 (1,497) 
 612  
 (885)

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$4,854  
$—  
$4,854 

 
The goodwill and $1.2 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of Accounting Standards Codification
(“ASC”) 350 “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.” Other intangibles also include $0.1 million allocated
to developed technology and $0.3 million allocated to customer relationships which are to be amortized over a period of 5 years.
Goodwill and other intangibles of PerfectFry are allocated to the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group for segment reporting
purposes. These assets are expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 

37
 

 
Cozzini
 
On September 21, 2010, the company
completed its acquisition of the food processing equipment business of Cozzini, Inc. (“Cozzini”), a
leading manufacturer of equipment solutions for the food processing industry, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$19.2 million, net of cash acquired, including $17.4 million in cash and 34,263 shares of Middleby common stock valued at $1.8
million. An additional contingent payment of $2.0 million was made in the first quarter of 2011 upon the achievement of certain
sales targets. During the second quarter of 2011, the company finalized the working capital provision resulting in no additional
payments.
 
The final allocation of cash paid
for the Cozzini acquisition is summarized as follows (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
Sep 21, 2010  
Adjustments  
Sep 21, 2010 

  
   
   
  

Cash 
$557  
$30  
$587 

Current assets 
 13,601  
 172  
 13,773 

Property, plant and equipment 
 863  
 (30) 
 833 

Goodwill 
 9,601  
 (1,745) 
 7,856 

Other intangibles 
 6,691  
 1,119  
 7,810 

Other assets 
 636  
 72  
 708 

Current liabilities 
 (11,859) 
 68  
 (11,791)

  
    
    
   

Consideration paid at closing 
$20,090  
$(314) 
$19,776 

  
    
    
   

Contingent consideration 
 2,000  
 —  
 2,000 

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$22,090  
$(314) 
$21,776 

 
The goodwill and $3.6 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also include $2.7 million allocated to customer relationships and $1.4 million allocated to backlog which are to be amortized over
the periods of 4 years and 3 months respectively. Goodwill and other intangibles of Cozzini are allocated to the Food Processing
Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 

38
 

 
Beech
 
On April 12, 2011, the company
completed its acquisition of all of the capital stock of J.W. Beech Pty. Ltd., together with its subsidiary, Beech Ovens Pty. Ltd.
(collectively “Beech”), a leading manufacturer of stone hearth ovens for the commercial
foodservice industry for a purchase price of approximately $13.0 million, net of cash acquired. The purchase price is subject
to adjustment based on a working capital provision with the purchase agreement. The company expects to finalize this in the first
quarter of 2012.
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
Apr 12, 2011  
Adjustments  
Apr 12, 2011 

  
   
   
  

Cash 
$525  
$—  
$525 

Current assets 
 1,145  
 (299) 
 846 

Property, plant and equipment 
 57  
 —  
 57 

Goodwill 
 11,433  
 (192) 
 11,241 

Other intangibles 
 2,317  
 (294) 
 2,023 

Current liabilities 
 (1,100) 
 (41) 
 (1,141)

Other non-current liabilities 
 (893) 
 826  
 (67)

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$13,484  
$—  
$13,484 

 
The goodwill and $1.9 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $0.1 million allocated to backlog which is to be amortized over a period of 3 months. Goodwill and other intangibles
of Beech are allocated to the Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are expected
to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. Such changes are not expected to be significant. The company expects to complete the
purchase price allocation as soon as practicable but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

39
 

 
Lincat Group
 
On May 27, 2011, the company completed
its acquisition of Lincat Group PLC (“Lincat”), a leading manufacturer of ranges, ovens, and counterline equipment
for the commercial foodservice industry for a purchase price of approximately $82.1 million, net of cash acquired.
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
May 27, 2011  
Adjustments  
May 27, 2011 

  
   
   
  

Cash 
$12,392  
$—  
$12,392 

Current assets 
 16,992  
 —  
 16,992 

Property, plant and equipment 
 14,368  
 —  
 14,368 

Goodwill 
 45,765  
 (7,802) 
 37,963 

Other intangibles 
 31,343  
 1,976  
 33,319 

Current liabilities 
 (10,924) 
 (6)  
 (10,930)

Long-term deferred tax liability 
 (13,803) 
 5,832  
 (7,971)

Other non-current liabilities 
 (1,611) 
 —  
 (1,611)

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$94,522  
$—  
$94,522 

 
The goodwill and $15.2 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $17.6 million allocated to customer relationships and $0.5 million allocated to backlog, which are to be amortized
over periods of 5 years and 3 months, respectively. Goodwill and other intangibles of Lincat are allocated to the Commercial Foodservice
Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. The company expects to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable
but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

40
 

 
Danfotech
 
On
July 5, 2011, the company completed its acquisition of all of the capital stock of Danfotech
Inc. (“Danfotech”), a manufacturer of meat presses and defrosting equipment for the food processing industry for a
purchase price of approximately $6.1 million, net of cash acquired. The purchase price is subject to adjustment based upon a working
capital provision within the purchase agreements. Pursuant to terms of the purchase agreement, in December 2011 the company purchased
additional assets from the sellers of Danfotech for approximately $0.7 million. An additional contingent payment is also payable
upon the achievement of certain sales targets. The purchase price is subject to adjustment based on a working capital provision
within the purchase agreement. The company expects to finalize this in the first quarter of 2012.
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
Jul 5, 2011  
Adjustments  
Jul 5, 2011 

  
   
   
  

Cash 
$165  
$—  
$165 

Current assets 
 1,073  
 (366) 
 707 

Property, plant and equipment 
 102  
 (55) 
 47 

Goodwill 
 3,423  
 2,846  
 6,269 

Other intangibles 
 1,864  
 (778) 
 1,086 

Other assets 
 4  
 —  
 4 

Current liabilities 
 (309) 
 (753) 
 (1,062)

Long-term deferred tax liability 
 (46) 
 (144) 
 (190)

Other non-current liabilities 
 —  
 (750) 
 (750)

  
    
    
   

Consideration paid at closing 
$6,276  
$—  
$6,276 

  
    
    
   

Additional assets acquired post closing 
 —  
 730  
 730 

Contingent consideration 
 1,500  
 —  
 1,500 

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$7,776  
$730  
$8,506 

 
The long term deferred tax liabilities
amounted to $0.2 million. This net liability represents $0.1 million arising from the difference between the book and tax basis
of tangible assets and $0.1 million related to the difference between the book and tax basis of identifiable intangible assets.
 
The goodwill and $0.6 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $0.4 million allocated to customer relationships, $0.1 million allocated to developed technology and less than $0.1
million allocated to backlog, which are to be amortized over periods of 4 years, 3 years and 3 months, respectively. Goodwill and
other intangibles of Danfotech are allocated to the Food Processing Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets
are not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. The company expects to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable
but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

41
 

 
Maurer
 
On July 22, 2011, the company
completed its acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Maurer-Atmos GmbH (“Maurer”), a manufacturer of batch
ovens and thermal processing systems for the food processing industry for a purchase price of approximately $3.3 million. In the
fourth quarter of 2011, pursuant to terms of the purchase agreement, the purchase price was adjusted to reflect the final valuation
of acquired inventories, resulting in a net reduction of approximately $0.6 million.
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
Jul 22, 2011  
Adjustments  
Jul 22, 2011 

  
   
   
  

Current assets 
$1,673  
$(668) 
$1,005 

Property, plant and equipment 
 628  
 —  
 628 

Goodwill 
 870  
 122  
 992 

Other intangibles 
 922  
 —  
 922 

Current liabilities 
 (246) 
 (36) 
 (282)

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$3,847  
$(582) 
$3,265 

 
The goodwill and $0.6 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $0.3 million allocated to customer relationships and less than $0.1 million allocated to developed technology, which
are to be amortized over periods of 4 years and 3 years, respectively. Goodwill and other intangibles of Maurer are allocated to
the Food Processing Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. The company expects to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable
but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

42
 

 
Auto-Bake
 
On
August 1, 2011, the company completed its acquisition of all of the capital stock of Auto-Bake
Proprietary Limited (“Auto-Bake”), a manufacturer of automated baking ovens for the food processing industry for a
purchase price of approximately $22.5 million, net of cash acquired. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the company finalized the
working capital provision provided for by the purchase agreement resulting in no additional adjustment to the purchase price. 
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
(as initially reported)  
Measurement Period  
(as adjusted) 

  
Aug 1, 2011  
Adjustments  
Aug 1, 2011 

  
   
   
  

Cash 
$110  
$—  
$110 

Current assets 
 3,209  
 (28) 
 3,181 

Property, plant and equipment 
 477  
 —  
 477 

Goodwill 
 16,259  
 1,940  
 18,199 

Other intangibles 
 6,784  
 (2,726) 
 4,058 

Other assets 
 336  
 (11) 
 325 

Current liabilities 
 (2,506) 
 8  
 (2,498)

Long-term deferred tax liability 
 (2,035) 
 817  
 (1,218)

  
    
    
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$22,634  
$—  
$22,634 

 
The goodwill and $2.0 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $1.9 million allocated to customer relationships and $0.2 million allocated to backlog, which are to be amortized
over periods of 5 years and 3 months, respectively. Goodwill and other intangibles of Auto-Bake are allocated to the Food Processing
Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. The company expects to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable
but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

43
 

 
Drake
 
On
December 2, 2011, the company completed its acquisition of all of the capital stock of the
F.R. Drake Company (“Drake”), a manufacturer of automated loading systems for
the food processing industry for a purchase price of approximately $21.7 million, net of cash acquired. The purchase price is subject
to adjustment based upon a working capital provision within the purchase agreement.
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
Dec 2, 2011 

  
  

Cash 
$427 

Current assets 
 4,245 

Deferred tax asset 
 390 

Property, plant and equipment 
 1,773 

Goodwill 
 15,237 

Other intangibles 
 5,810 

Other assets 
 9 

Current liabilities 
 (3,334)

Long-term deferred tax liability 
 (2,395)

  
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$22,162 

 
The current deferred tax asset
and long term deferred tax liability amounted to $0.4 million and $2.4 million, respectively. The current deferred tax asset represents
$0.4 million of assets arising from the difference between the book and tax basis of tangible asset and liability accounts. The
net long term deferred tax liability is comprised of $0.1 million arising from the difference between the book and tax basis of
tangible assets and liability accounts and $2.3 million related to the difference between the book and tax basis of identifiable
intangible assets.
 
The goodwill and $3.2 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $2.5 million allocated to customer relationships and $0.1 million allocated to backlog, which are to be amortized
over periods of 5 years and 1 month, respectively. Goodwill and other intangibles of Drake are allocated to the Food Processing
Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. The company expects to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable
but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

44
 

 
Armor Inox
 
On
December 21, 2011, the company completed its acquisition of all of the capital stock of
Armor Inox, S.A., together with its subsidiaries Armor Inox Production S.a.r.l and Armor Inox UK Ltd (collectively “Armor
Inox”, a manufacturer of thermal processing systems for the food processing industry
for a purchase price of approximately $28.7 million, net of cash acquired. 
 
The following estimated fair values
of assets acquired and liabilities assumed are provisional and are based on the information that was available as of the acquisition date
to estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (in thousands):
 


  
Dec 21, 2011 

  
  

Cash 
$18,201 

Current assets 
 14,612 

Property, plant and equipment 
 941 

Goodwill 
 23,789 

Other intangibles 
 12,155 

Other assets 
 25 

Current liabilities 
 (18,440)

Long-term deferred tax liability 
 (3,975)

Other non-current liabilities 
 (450)

  
   

Net assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
$46,858 

 
The goodwill and $3.9 million
of other intangibles associated with the trade name are subject to the non-amortization provisions of ASC 350. Other intangibles
also includes $1.3 million allocated to customer relationships, $1.8 million allocated to developed technology and $5.2 million
allocated to backlog, which are to be amortized over periods of 5 years, 6 years and 2 years, respectively. Goodwill and other
intangibles of Armor Inox are allocated to the Food Processing Equipment Group for segment reporting purposes. These assets are
not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
The company believes that information
gathered to date provides a reasonable basis for estimating the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed but the
company is waiting for additional information necessary to finalize those fair values. Thus, the provisional measurements of fair
value set forth above are subject to change. The company expects to complete the purchase price allocation as soon as practicable
but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
 

45
 

 
Pro forma financial information
 
In accordance with ASC 805 “Business
Combinations”, the following unaudited pro forma results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011 and January
1, 2011, assumes the 2011 acquisitions of Beech, Lincat, Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake and Armor Inox were completed on January
3, 2010.  The following pro forma results include adjustments to reflect additional interest expense to fund the acquisition,
amortization of intangibles associated with the acquisition, and the effects of adjustments made to the carrying value of certain
assets (in thousands, except per share data:
 


  
Dec 31, 2011  
Jan 1, 2011 

  
   
  

Net sales 
$932,479  
$862,351 

Net earnings 
 101,718  
 87,120 

  
    
   

Net earnings per share: 
    
   

Basic 
 5.65  
 4.89 

Diluted 
 5.49  
 4.70 

 
The supplemental pro forma financial information
presented above has been prepared for comparative purposes and is not necessarily indicative of either the results of operations
that would have occurred had the acquisitions of these companies been effective on January 3, 2010 nor are they indicative of any
future results.  Also, the pro forma financial information does not reflect the costs which the company has incurred or may
incur to integrate Beech, Lincat, Danfotech, Maurer, Auto-Bake, Drake and Armor Inox. The 2010 acquisitions of PerfectFry and Cozzini
were not considered to be material, individually or in aggregate.
 

(3)SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 

(a)Basis of Presentation
 
The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation. The company's consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses as well as related disclosures. Significant items
that are subject to such estimates and judgments include allowances for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories,
long-lived and intangible assets, warranty reserves, insurance reserves, income tax reserves and post-retirement obligations. On
an ongoing basis, the company evaluates its estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and various other factors
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions
or conditions.
 
The company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday
nearest December 31. Fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009 ended on December 31, 2011, January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively,
and each included 52 weeks.
 

(b)Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The company considers all short-term investments
with original maturities of three months or less when acquired to be cash equivalents. The company’s policy is to invest
its excess cash in interest-bearing deposits with major banks that are subject to minimal credit and market risk.
 

(c)Accounts Receivable
 
Accounts receivable, as shown in the consolidated
balance sheets, are net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $6.9 million and $8.0 million at December 31, 2011 and January 1,
2011, respectively. At December 31, 2011, all accounts receivable are expected to be collected within one year.
 

46
 

 

(d)Inventories
 
Inventories are composed of material, labor
and overhead and are stated at the lower of cost or market. Costs for inventories at two of the company's manufacturing facilities
have been determined using the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method. These inventories under the LIFO method amounted to
$18.6 million in 2011 and $17.5 million in 2010 and represented approximately 15% and 16% of the total inventory in each respective
year. Costs for all other inventory have been determined using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method. The company estimates
reserves for inventory obsolescence and shrinkage based on its judgment of future realization. Inventories at December 31, 2011
and January 1, 2011 are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
  

Raw materials and parts 
$69,576  
$60,452 

Work in process 
 15,204  
 12,292 

Finished goods 
 39,261  
 33,432 

  
 124,041  
 106,176 

LIFO reserve 
 259  
 287 

  
$124,300  
$106,463 

 

(e)Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried
at cost as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

Land 
$8,189  
$6,566 

Building and improvements 
 46,104  
 37,796 

Furniture and fixtures 
 11,680  
 8,037 

Machinery and equipment 
 50,548  
 38,612 

  
 116,521  
 91,011 

Less accumulated depreciation 
 (54,014) 
 (47,355)

  
$62,507  
$43,656 

 
Property and equipment are depreciated or
amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives based on management's estimates of the period over which the assets
will be utilized to benefit the operations of the company. The useful lives are estimated based on historical experience with similar
assets, taking into account anticipated technological or other changes.  The company periodically reviews these lives relative
to physical factors, economic factors and industry trends. If there are changes in the planned use of property and equipment or
if technological changes were to occur more rapidly than anticipated, the useful lives assigned to these assets may need to be
shortened, resulting in the recognition of increased depreciation and amortization expense in future periods.
 
Following is a summary
of the estimated useful lives:
 


Description
 
Life

Building and improvements
 
20 to 40 years

Furniture and fixtures
 
3 to 7 years

Machinery and equipment
 
3 to 10 years

 
Depreciation expense amounted to $6.9 million,
$5.9 million and $6.3 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Expenditures which significantly extend
useful lives are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Asset impairments are recorded whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the recorded value of an asset is greater than the sum of its expected future
undiscounted cash flows.
 

47
 

 

(f)Goodwill and Other Intangibles 
 
In accordance with ASC 350 “Goodwill-Intangibles
and Other”, the company’s goodwill and other indefinite lived intangibles are reviewed for impairment annually at the
end of the fiscal year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangibles, the company considers changes
in economic conditions and makes assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors.   Estimates of
future cash flows are judgments based on the company’s experience and knowledge of operations.  These estimates
can be significantly impacted by many factors including changes in global and local business and economic conditions, operating
costs, inflation, competition, and consumer and demographic trends.  If the company’s estimates or the underlying
assumptions change in the future, the company may be required to record impairment charges. Any such charge could have a material
adverse effect on the company’s reported net earnings.
 
Goodwill is allocated to the business segments
as follows (in thousands):
 


  
Commercial  
Food  
  

  
Foodservice  
Processing  
Total 

  
   
   
  

Balance as of January 2, 2010 
$326,980  
$31,526  
$358,506 

  
    
    
   

Goodwill acquired during the year 
 3,555  
 7,962  
 11,517 

Exchange effect 
 (34) 
 —  
 (34)

  
    
    
   

Balance as of January 1, 2011 
$330,501  
$39,488  
$369,989 

  
    
    
   

Goodwill acquired during the year 
 49,204  
 64,486  
 113,690 

Measurement period adjustments to goodwill acquired in prior year 
 (1,272) 
 (5) 
 (1,277)

Exchange effect 
 (3,081) 
 (1,509) 
 (4,590)

  
    
    
   

Balance as of December 31, 2011 
$375,352  
$102,460  
$477,812 

 
The company has not recognized any goodwill
impairments and therefore no accumulated impairment loss.
 
Intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands):
 


  
December 31, 2011  
January 1, 2011 

  
Estimated  
   
   
Estimated  
   
  

  
Weighted Avg  
Gross  
   
Weighted Avg  
Gross  
  

  
Remaining  
Carrying  
Accumulated  
Remaining  
Carrying  
Accumulated 

 
Life  
Amount  
Amortization  
Life  
Amount  
Amortization 

Amortized intangible assets:  
   
   
   
   
   
  

Customer lists 
 3.1  
$67,904  
$(28,435) 
 3.9  
$43,662  
$(19,597)

Backlog 
 2.0  
 9,733  
 (4,378) 
 —  
 3,568  
 (3,568)

Developed technology 
 1.7  
 18,106  
 (9,033) 
 3.7  
 15,821  
 (6,358)

  
    
$95,743  
$(41,846) 
    
$63.051  
$(29.523)

Indefinite-lived assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
   

Trademarks and tradenames 
    
$180,829  
    
    
$155,726  
   

 
The aggregate intangible amortization expense
was $12.2 million, $10.6 million and $9.1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The estimated future amortization expense
of intangible assets is as follows (in thousands):
  


2012 
$17,465 

2013 
 16,322 

2014 
 10,887 

2015 
 5,683 

2016 
 2,876 

Thereafter 
 664 

  
$53,897 

 

48
 

 

(g)Accrued Expenses
 
Accrued expenses consist of the following
at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, respectively:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
  

Accrued payroll and related expenses 
$41,434  
$32,625 

Advanced customer deposits 
 33,246  
 13,357 

Accrued customer rebates 
 23,136  
 18,086 

Accrued warranty 
 13,842  
 14,468 

Accrued product liability and workers compensation 
 10,771  
 9,711 

Accrued agent commission 
 8,668  
 7,824 

Accrued professional services 
 7,497  
 5,944 

Other accrued expenses 
 31,798  
 23,795 

  
    
   

  
$170,392  
$125,810 

 

(h)Litigation Matters
 
From time to time, the company is subject
to proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to products, suppliers, employees, customers and competitors. The company maintains
insurance to partially cover product liability, workers compensation, property and casualty, and general liability matters. 
The company is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters as well as potential ranges
of probable losses.  A determination of the amount of accrual required, if any, for these contingencies is made after assessment
of each matter and the related insurance coverage.  The required accrual may change in the future due to new developments
or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters.  The company does not believe
that any such matter will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of the
company.
 

(i)Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income
 
The following table summarizes the components of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss) as reported in the consolidated balance sheets:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
  

Unrecognized pension benefit costs, net of tax 
$(7,615) 
$(2,470)

Unrealized loss on interest rate swap, net of tax 
 (1,691) 
 (1,105)

Currency translation adjustments 
 (11,228) 
 (459)

  
    
   

  
$(20,534) 
$(4,034)

 

49
 

 

(j)Fair Value Measures
 
ASC 820 “Fair Value Measurements and
Disclosures” defines fair value as the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit
price) in the principal most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
on the measurement date. ASC 820 establishes a fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value
into the following levels:
 
Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities
Level 2 – Inputs, other than quoted prices in
active markets, that are observable either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 – Unobservable inputs based on our own
assumptions
 
The company’s financial assets and
liabilities that are measured at fair value are categorized using the fair value hierarchy at December 31, 2011 and January 1,
2011 are as follows (in thousands):
 


  
Fair Value  
Fair Value  
Fair Value  
  

  
Level 1  
Level 2  
Level 3  
Total 

  
   
   
   
  

As of December 31, 2011 
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Financial Assets: 
    
    
    
   

Pension Plans 
$21,229  
$1,297  
 —  
$22,526 

  
    
    
    
   

Financial Liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Interest rate swaps 
 —  
$3,216  
 —  
$3,216 

Contingent consideration 
 —  
 —  
$3,398  
$3,398 

  
    
    
    
   

As of January 1, 2011 
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Financial Assets: 
    
    
    
   

Pension Plans 
$11,241  
$354  
 —  
$11,595 

  
    
    
    
   

Financial Liabilities: 
    
    
    
   

Interest rate swaps 
 —  
$2,186  
 —  
$2,186 

Contingent consideration 
 —  
 —  
$5,579  
$5,579 

 
The contingent consideration as of December
31, 2011 relates to the earnout provisions recorded in conjunction with the acquisitions of Cooktek and Danfotech.
 
The contingent consideration as of January
1, 2011 relates to the earnout provisions recorded in conjunction with the acquisitions of Cooktek and Cozzini.
 

(k)Foreign Currency
 
Foreign currency transactions are accounted
for in accordance with ASC 830 “Foreign Currency Translation”. The income statements of the company’s foreign
operations are translated at the monthly average rates. Assets and liabilities of the company’s foreign operations are translated
at exchange rates at the balance sheet date. These translation adjustments are not included in determining net income for the period
but are disclosed and accumulated in a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Exchange gains and losses on foreign currency
transactions are included in determining net income for the period in which they occur. These transactions amounted to a gain of
$0.2 million in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010 and a loss of $0.2 million in fiscal 2009 and are included in other expense on the
statements of earnings.
 

50
 

 

(l)Revenue Recognition
 
The company recognizes revenue on the sale
of its products when risk of loss has passed to the customer, which occurs at the time of shipment, and collectability is reasonably
assured. The sale prices of the products sold are fixed and determinable at the time of shipment. Sales are reported net of sales
returns, sales incentives and cash discounts based on prior experience and other quantitative and qualitative factors.
 
At the Food Processing Equipment Group,
the company enters into long-term sales contracts for certain products. Revenue under these long-term sales contracts is recognized
using the percentage of completion method defined within ASC 605-35 “Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts”
due to the length of time to fully manufacture and assemble the equipment. The company measures revenue recognized based on the
ratio of actual labor hours incurred in relation to the total estimated labor hours to be incurred related to the contract. Because
estimated labor hours to complete a project are based upon forecasts using the best available information, the actual hours may
differ from original estimates. Under ASC 605, the company records the asset for revenue recognized but not yet billed on contracts
accounted for under the percentage of completion method in Prepaid Expenses and Other on the consolidated balance sheet. For 2011
and 2010, the amount of this asset was $1.9 million and $5.1 million, respectively. The percentage of completion method of accounting
for these contracts most accurately reflects the status of these uncompleted contracts in the company's financial statements and
most accurately measures the matching of revenues with expenses. At the time a loss on a contract becomes known, the amount of
the estimated loss is recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
 

(m)Shipping and Handling Costs
 
Shipping and handling costs are included
in cost of products sold.
 

(n)Warranty Costs
 
In the normal course of business the company
issues product warranties for specific product lines and provides for the estimated future warranty cost in the period in which
the sale is recorded.  The estimate of warranty cost is based on contract terms and historical warranty loss experience that
is periodically adjusted for recent actual experience. Because warranty estimates are forecasts that are based on the best available
information, claims costs may differ from amounts provided. Adjustments to initial obligations for warranties are made as changes
in the obligations become reasonably estimable.
 
A rollforward of the warranty reserve for
the fiscal years 2011 and 2010 are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
  

Beginning balance 
$14,468  
$14,265 

Warranty reserve related to acquisitions 
 939  
 537 

Warranty expense 
 21,019  
 22,789 

Warranty claims 
 (22,584) 
 (23,123)

Ending balance 
$13,842  
$14,468 

 

(o)Research and Development Costs
 
Research and development costs, included
in cost of sales in the consolidated statements of earnings, are charged to expense when incurred. These costs were $10.4 million,
$7.7 million, and $7.1 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 

51
 

 

(p)Non-Cash Share-Based Compensation
 
The company estimates the fair value of
restricted share grants and stock options at the time of grant and recognizes compensation costs over the vesting period of the
awards and options. Non-cash share-based compensation expense of $18.1 million, $14.7 million and $10.8 million was recognized
for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This included less than $0.1 million for fiscal 2009 associated with stock options
and $18.1 million, $14.7 million and $10.8 million for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, associated with restricted share
grants. The company recorded a related tax benefit of $7.1 million, $5.8 million and $4.2 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. The company issued restricted share grants with a fair value of $34.7 million in fiscal year 2011 and $16.1 million
in fiscal 2009. There were no restricted share grants issued in fiscal 2010.
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was $25.4
million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted share grant compensation arrangements, which will
be recognized over a weighted average life of 1.5 years.
 
The fair value of restricted share grant
awards for which vesting is subject to market conditions have been estimated using binomial option-pricing models, based on the
average market price at the grant date and the weighted average assumptions specific to share grant awards. Share grant awards
not subject to market conditions for vesting are valued at the closing share price of the company’s stock as of the date
of the grant. The company issued 386,000 and 335,614 restricted share grant awards in 2011 and 2009, respectively. There were no
restricted share grant awards in 2010. Share grant awards issued in 2011 and 2009 are performance based and were not subject to
market conditions. The fair value of $89.98 and $47.78 per share for the awards for 2011 and 2009, respectively, represent the
closing share price of the company’s stock as of the date of grant.
 

(q)Earnings Per Share
 
“Basic earnings per share” is
calculated based upon the weighted average number of common shares actually outstanding, and “diluted earnings per share”
is calculated based upon the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and other dilutive securities.
 
The company’s potentially dilutive
securities consist of shares issuable on exercise of outstanding options and vesting of restricted stock grants computed using
the treasury method and amounted to 536,000, 536,000, and 970,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no anti-dilutive
equity awards excluded from common stock equivalents for 2011, 2010 or 2009.
 

(r)Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
Cash paid for interest was $7.8 million,
$7.6 million and $10.6 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash payments totaling $32.3 million, $34.3 million,
and $34.6 million were made for income taxes during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Net borrowings under the company’s
senior revolving credit facility in fiscal 2011 consisted of $290.0 million of borrowings offset by $187.8 million of repayments.
 

52
 

 

(s)New Accounting Pronouncements
 
In December 2010, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-29, “Business Combinations
(Topic 805).” ASU No. 2010-29 clarifies the disclosures required for pro forma information for business combinations. ASU
No. 2010-29 specifies if comparative financial statements are presented, revenue and earnings of a combined entity should be disclosed
as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior
annual reporting period only. The amendments in ASU 2010-29 are effective for business combinations for which the acquisition date
is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The company adopted
the provisions of ASU No. 2010-29 on January 2, 2011.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04,
“Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” This update
provides clarification on existing fair value measurement requirements, amends existing guidance primarily related to fair value
measurements for financial instruments, and requires enhanced disclosures on fair value measurements. The additional disclosures
are specific to Level 3 fair value measurements, transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, financial instruments
not measured at fair value and use of an asset measured or disclosed at fair value differing from its highest and best use. This
ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and will be applied prospectively. The
adoption of this guidance is not expected to affect the company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05,
“Presentation of Comprehensive Income,” which eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive
income in the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. Instead, entities will have the option to present the components
of net income, the components of other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in a single continuous statement or
in two separate but consecutive statements. The guidance does not change the items reported in other comprehensive income or when
an item of other comprehensive income is reclassified to net income. This ASU is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011, and will be applied retrospectively. The adoption of this guidance
will require a change in the presentation of comprehensive income and its components which are currently reported within the Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity. As this guidance only revises the presentation of comprehensive income, the
adoption of this guidance is not expected to affect the company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08,
“Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350),” This ASU will allow an entity the option to make a qualitative
evaluation about the likelihood of goodwill impairment to determine whether it should calculate the fair value of a reporting unit.
The ASU also amends previous guidance by expanding upon the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider
between annual impairment tests in determining whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying amount. Also, the ASU provides additional examples of events and circumstances that an entity having a reporting
unit with a zero or negative carrying amount should consider in determining whether to measure an impairment loss, if any, under
the second step of the goodwill impairment test. This ASU is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted, including for annual and interim goodwill
impairment tests performed as of a date before September 15, 2011, if an entity’s financial statements for the most recent
annual or interim period have not yet been issued. The company did not early adopt this ASU and is evaluating whether it will elect
to apply this option for qualitative evaluation in future goodwill impairment tests.
 

53
 

 

(4)FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
 
The following is a summary of long-term
debt at December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
  

Senior secured revolving credit line 
$309,400  
$207,250 

Foreign loans 
 7,935  
 6,767 

Total debt 
$317,335  
$214,017 

  
    
   

Less current maturities of long-term debt 
 315,831  
 5,097 

  
    
   

Long-term debt 
$1,504  
$208,920 

 
During the second quarter of 2011, the company
exercised a provision under its current credit facility that allowed the company to increase the amount of availability under the
revolving credit line by approximately $102.0 million. Terms of the company’s senior credit agreement provide for $600.0
million of availability under a revolving credit line which matures on December 28, 2012. As of December 31, 2011, the company
had $309.4 million of borrowings outstanding under this facility. The company also has $10.0 million in outstanding letters of
credit, which reduces the borrowing availability under the revolving credit line. Remaining borrowing availability under this facility,
which is also reduced by the company’s foreign borrowings, was $272.7 million at December 31, 2011.
 
At December 31, 2011, borrowings under the
senior secured credit facility were assessed at an interest rate at 1.00% above LIBOR for long-term borrowings or at the higher
of the Prime rate and the Federal Funds Rate. At December 31, 2011, the average interest rate on the senior debt amounted to 1.56%.
The interest rates on borrowings under the senior bank facility may be adjusted quarterly based on the company’s defined
indebtedness ratio on a rolling four-quarter basis. Additionally, a commitment fee, based upon the indebtedness ratio is charged
on the unused portion of the revolving credit line. This variable commitment fee amounted to 0.20% as of December 31, 2011.
 
In August 2006, the company completed its
acquisition of Houno A/S in Denmark. This acquisition was funded in part with locally established debt facilities with borrowings
in Danish Krone.  On December 31, 2011, these facilities amounted to $3.3 million in U.S. dollars, including $1.7 million
outstanding under a revolving credit facility and $1.6 million of a term loan.  The interest rate on the revolving credit
facility is assessed at 1.25% above Euro LIBOR, which amounted to 3.05% on December 31, 2011. The term loan matures in 2013 and
the interest rate is assessed at 4.55%.
 
In April 2008, the company completed its
acquisition of Giga Grandi Cucine S.r.l. in Italy. This acquisition was funded in part with locally established debt facilities
with borrowings denominated in Euro.  On December 31, 2011, these facilities amounted to $4.1 million in U.S. dollars.  
The interest rate on the credit facilities is tied to six-month Euro LIBOR. The facilities mature in April of 2015. At December
31, 2011, the average interest rate on these facilities was approximately 4.11%.
 
In December 2011, the company completed
its acquisition of Armor Inox in France. This acquisition was funded in part with locally established debt facilities with borrowings
denominated in Euro.  On December 31, 2011, these facilities amounted to $0.5 million in U.S. dollars.   The interest
rate on the credit facilities is tied to six-month Euro LIBOR. The facilities mature in April of 2015. At December 31, 2011, the
average interest rate on these facilities was approximately 3.15%.
 
The company’s debt is reflected on
the balance sheet at cost. Based on current market conditions, the company believes its interest rate margins under its senior
secured revolving credit line are below the rate available in the market, which causes the fair value of debt to fall below the
carrying value. The company believes the current interest rate margin is approximately 0.5% below current market rates. However,
as the interest rate margin is based upon numerous factors, including but not limited to the credit rating of the borrower, the
duration of the loan, the structure and restrictions under the debt agreement, current lending policies of the counterparty, and
the company’s relationships with its lenders, there is no readily available market data to ascertain the current market rate
for an equivalent debt instrument. As a result, the current interest rate margin is based upon the company’s best estimate.
 

54
 

 
The company estimated the fair value of
its loans by calculating the upfront cash payment a market participant would require to assume the company’s obligations.
The upfront cash payment is the amount that a market participant would be able to lend at December 31, 2011 to achieve sufficient
cash inflows to cover the cash outflows under the company’s senior revolving credit facility assuming the facility was outstanding
in its entirety until maturity. Since the company maintains the majority of its borrowings under a revolving credit facility and
there is no predetermined borrowing or repayment schedule, for purposes of this calculation the company calculated the fair value
of its obligations assuming the current amount of debt at the end of the period was outstanding until the maturity of the company’s
senior revolving credit facility in December 2012. Although borrowings could be materially greater or less than the current amount
of borrowings outstanding at the end of the period, it is not practical to estimate the amounts that may be outstanding during
future periods. The carrying value and estimated aggregate fair value, based primarily on market prices, of debt is as follows
(dollars in thousands):
 
 


  
December 31, 2011  
January 1, 2011 

  
Carrying Value  
Fair Value  
Carrying Value  
Fair Value 

Total debt 
$317,335  
$315,749  
$214,017  
$209,808 

 
The company believes that its current capital
resources, including cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, funds available from its current lenders and access
to the credit and capital markets will be sufficient to finance its operations, debt service obligations, capital expenditures,
product development and expenditures for the foreseeable future.
 
The company has historically entered into
interest rate swap agreements to effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of its outstanding debt. The agreements swap one-month
LIBOR for fixed rates. As of December 31, 2011, the company had the following interest rate swaps in effect:
 


   
Fixed  
   
  

Notional  
Interest  
Effective  
Maturity 

Amount  
Rate  
Date  
Date 

   
   
   
  

$20,000,000  
 1.800% 
 11/23/09  
 11/23/12 

 20,000,000  
 1.560% 
 03/11/10  
 12/11/12 

 10,000,000  
 1.120% 
 03/11/10  
 03/11/12 

 15,000,000  
 0.950% 
 08/06/10  
 12/06/12 

 25,000,000  
 1.610% 
 02/23/11  
 02/24/14 

 25,000,000  
 2.520% 
 02/23/11  
 02/23/16 

 25,000,000  
 0.975% 
 07/18/11  
 07/18/14 

 15,000,000  
 1.185% 
 09/12/11  
 09/12/16 

 15,000,000  
 0.620% 
 09/12/11  
 09/11/14 

 
The senior revolving facility matures on
December 28, 2012, and accordingly has been classified as a current liability on the consolidated balance sheet. The company anticipates
it will enter into a new and similarly structured senior revolving credit facility during first half of 2012 and is in discussions
with its current lenders in this regard. The company does not foresee any difficulty in renewing the facility given the financial
position and performance of the company and its long standing relationships with its lending partners.
 
The terms of the senior secured credit facility
limit the paying of dividends, capital expenditures and leases, and require, among other things, a maximum ratio of indebtedness
to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) of 3.5 and a minimum EBITDA to fixed charges
ratio of 1.25. The credit agreement also provides that if a material adverse change in the company’s business operations
or conditions occurs, the lender could declare an event of default. Under terms of the agreement, a material adverse effect is
defined as (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business properties, condition
(financial and otherwise) or prospects of the company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability
of the company to perform under the loan agreements and to avoid any event of default; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the
legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the company of any loan document. A material adverse effect is determined
on a subjective basis by the company's creditors. The credit facility is secured by the capital stock of the company’s domestic
subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of the company’s foreign subsidiaries and substantially all other assets of the company.
At December 31, 2011, the company was in compliance with all covenants pursuant to its borrowing agreements.
 

55
 

 
The aggregate amount of debt payable during
each of the next five years is as follows:
 


  
(in thousands) 

2012 
$315,831 

2013 
 115 

2014 
 119 

2015 
 125 

2016 and thereafter 
 1,145 

  
   

  
$317,335 

 

(5)COMMON AND PREFERRED STOCK
 

(a)Shares Authorized and Issued
 
At December 31, 2011 and January
1, 2011 the company had 47,500,000, shares of common stock and 2,000,000 shares of non-voting preferred stock authorized. At December
31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, there were 18,655,910 and 18,458,011, respectively, shares of common stock outstanding.
 

(b)Treasury Stock
 
In July 1998, the company's Board
of Directors adopted a stock repurchase program and during 1998 authorized the purchase of up to 1,800,000 common shares in open
market purchases. As of December 31, 2011, 1,540,183 shares had been purchased under the 1998 stock repurchase program and 259,817
remain authorized for repurchase.
 
At December 31, 2011, the company
had a total of 4,437,428 shares in treasury amounting to $126.7 million.
 

56
 

 

(c)Share-Based Awards
 
The company maintains several
stock incentive plans under which the company's Board of Directors issues stock options and makes restricted share grants to key
employees. Stock options issued under the plans provide key employees with rights to purchase shares of common stock at specified
exercise prices. Options may be exercised upon certain vesting requirements being met, but expire to the extent unexercised within
a maximum of ten years from the date of grant. Restricted share grants issued to employees are transferable upon certain vesting
requirements being met.
 

·1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1998 Plan"), as amended on December 15, 2003. Effective February 15, 2008 and in
accordance with plan parameters, the company is no longer permitted to make grants under the 1998 Plan. Accordingly, no shares
are available for issuance under the 1998 Plan.  
 
As of December 31, 2011, a total of 3,363,506 share-based
awards have been issued under the 1998 Plan.  This includes 928,186 restricted share grants, of which 132,072 remain unvested
and 123,514 have been cancelled. This also includes 2,435,320 stock options, of which 1,733,650 have been exercised and 706,670
remain outstanding.
 

·2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan"), as amended on May 7, 2009. Effective August 11, 2011 and in accordance
with plan parameters, the company is no longer permitted to make grants under the 2007 Plan. Accordingly, no additional shares
are available for issuance under the 2007 Plan.
 
As of December 31, 2011, a total of 894,518 share-based
awards have been issued under the 2007 Plan. This includes 890,889 restricted share grants, of which 555,288 remain outstanding
and unvested.  This also includes 3,629 stock options, of which 708 have been exercised and 2,597 remain outstanding.
 

·2011 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2011 Plan"). A maximum amount of 550,000 shares can be issued under the 2011 Plan.
 
As of December 31, 2011, no share-based awards have
been issued under the 2011 Plan.
 
A summary of stock option activity
under the 1998 Plan is presented below (amounts in thousands, except share and per share data):
  


  
   
Weighted  
Weighted  
  

  
   
Average  
Average  
Aggregate 

  
   
Exercise  
Remaining  
Intrinsic 

  
Shares  
Price  
Life  
Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Outstanding at January 1, 2011: 
 724,888  
$9.49  
 2.36  
$54,312 

  
    
    
    
   

Granted 
 —  
 —  
    
   

Exercised 
 (18,218) 
 12.95  
    
   

Forfeited 
 —  
 —  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2011: 
 706,670  
$9.41  
 1.36  
$59,809 

  
    
    
    
   

Exercisable at December 31, 2011: 
 706,670  
$9.41  
 1.36  
$59,809 

  
    
    
    
   

Vested or expected to vest At December 31, 2011 
 706,670  
$9.41  
 1.36  
$59,809 

 

57
 

 
A summary of stock option activity
under the 2007 Plan is presented below (amounts in thousands, except share and per share data):
  


  
   
Weighted  
Weighted  
  

  
   
Average  
Average  
Aggregate 

  
   
Exercise  
Remaining  
Intrinsic 

  
Shares  
Price  
Life  
Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Outstanding at January 1, 2011: 
 2,921  
$15.76  
 1.11  
$200 

  
    
    
    
   

Granted 
 —  
 —  
    
   

Exercised 
 —  
   
 —  
   

Forfeited 
 (324) 
 25.39  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Outstanding at December 31, 2011: 
 2,597  
$14.56  
 0.78  
$206 

  
    
    
    
   

Exercisable at December 31, 2011: 
 2,597  
$14.56  
 0.78  
$206 

  
    
    
    
   

Vested or expected to vest At December 31, 2011 
 2,597  
$14.56  
 0.78  
$206 

 
A summary of the company’s
nonvested restricted share grant activity under the 1998 and 2007 Plans and related information for fiscal years ended January
1, 2011 and December 31, 2011 is as follows:
 


  
   
Weighted 

  
   
Average 

  
   
Grant-Date 

  
Shares  
Fair Value 

  
   
  

Nonvested shares at January 2, 2010 
 679,243  
$53.61 

  
    
   

Granted 
 -  
$- 

Vested 
 (47,250) 
$44.62 

Forfeited 
 -  
$- 

  
    
   

Nonvested shares at January 1, 2011 
 631,993  
$48.47 

  
    
   

Granted 
 386,000  
$89.98 

Vested 
 (327,933) 
$83.61 

Forfeited 
 (2,700) 
$54.81 

  
    
   

Nonvested shares at December 31, 2011 
 687,360  
$65.78 

 
The company issues share-based
awards from shares that have been authorized as new share issuances. The company does not anticipate it will be required to repurchase
any additional shares of common stock in 2012 to satisfy obligations under its share-based award programs.
 
Additional information related
to the share based compensation is as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
   
  

Intrinsic value of options exercised 
$1,477  
$2,280  
$1,091 

Cash received from exercise 
 236  
 666  
 391 

Tax benefit from option exercises 
 74  
 450  
 335 

 

58
 

 

(6)INCOME TAXES
 
Earnings before taxes is summarized as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

Domestic 
$125,730  
$104,421  
$96,788 

Foreign 
 14,719  
 9,815  
 2,938 

Total 
$140,449  
$114,236  
$99,726 

 
The provision for income
taxes is summarized as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
   
  

Federal 
$33,778  
$31,309  
$31,359 

State and local 
 7,169  
 7,052  
 6,100 

Foreign 
 4,028  
 3,008  
 1,111 

Total 
$44,975  
$41,369  
$38,570 

  
    
    
   

Current 
$39,554  
$39,949  
$27,447 

Deferred 
 5,421  
 1,420  
 11,123 

Total 
$44,975  
$41,369  
$38,570 

 
Reconciliation of the differences between
income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate to the effective rate are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

U.S. federal statutory tax rate 
 35.0% 
 35.0% 
 35.0%

  
    
    
   

State taxes, net of federal benefit 
 3.0  
 4.1  
 4.0 

Tax relief for U.S. manufacturers 
 (2.1) 
 (1.9) 
 (0.6)

Permanent book vs. tax differences 
 (1.1) 
 (1.3) 
 (1.7)

U.S. taxes on foreign earnings and foreign tax rate differentials 
 (1.5) 
 (0.3) 
 (0.7)

Reserve adjustments and other 
 (1.3) 
 0.6  
 2.7 

Consolidated effective tax 
 32.0% 
 36.2% 
 38.7%

 

59
 

 
 
At December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011,
the company had recorded the following deferred tax assets and liabilities, which were comprised of the following:
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

Deferred tax assets: 
    
   

Federal net operating loss carryforwards 
$20,430  
$28,079 

Compensation related 
 18,654  
 12,474 

Accrued retirement benefits 
 8,780  
 5,228 

Inventory reserves 
 4,611  
 4,429 

Product liability and workers compensation reserves 
 5,052  
 4,295 

Warranty reserves 
 4,490  
 4,175 

Receivable related reserves 
 2,350  
 2,509 

UNICAP 
 2,138  
 1,984 

Accrued plant closure 
 —  
 868 

State net operating loss carryforwards 
 580  
 740 

Interest rate swap 
 1,114  
 676 

Other 
 10,802  
 8,805 

Gross deferred tax assets 
 79,001  
 74,262 

Valuation allowance 
 —  
 — 

Deferred tax assets 
$79,001  
$74,262 

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

Intangible assets 
$(69,998) 
$(55,901)

Foreign tax earnings repatriation 
 (1,546) 
 (2,266)

LIFO reserves 
 (161) 
 (583)

Depreciation 
 (2,547) 
 (497)

Other 
 (3,504) 
 (1,353)

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities 
$(77,756) 
$(60,600)

  
    
   

Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) 
$1,245  
$13,662 

  
    
   

Current deferred asset (liability) 
$39,090  
$25,520 

Long-term deferred asset (liability) 
 (37,845) 
 (11,858)

Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) 
$1,245  
$13,662 

 
The company does not provide for deferred
taxes and foreign withholding taxes on the remaining undistributed earnings of certain international subsidiaries of approximately
$27.2 million and $10.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and January 1, 2011, respectively, as these earnings are considered permanently
invested. Upon repatriation of these earnings to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, the company may be subject to
U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. The actual U.S. tax cost would depend on income tax laws and circumstances at
the time of distribution. Determination of the related tax liability is not practicable because of the complexities associated
with the hypothetical calculation.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the company has
federal and state income tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $59.0 million which are subject to annual utilization
limitations pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 382. If not utilized, the federal and state net operating loss carryforwards
will expire at various dates beginning 2019 through 2028.
 
Although the company believes its tax returns
are correct, the final determination of tax examinations may be different than what was reported on the tax returns. In the opinion
of management, adequate tax provisions have been made for the years subject to examination. The company is currently under examination
by the Internal Revenue Service for the fiscal years ended January 3, 2009, January 2, 2010 and January 1, 2011. The completion
dates of these examinations have not been determined as of December 31, 2011.
 

60
 

 
As of December 31, 2011, the total amount
of liability for unrecognized tax benefits related to federal, state and foreign taxes was approximately $15.6 million (of which
$14.1 million would impact the effective tax rate if recognized) plus approximately $1.9 million of accrued interest and $2.0 million
of penalties. The company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense.
Interest recognized in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $(0.3) million, $0.1 million and $0.7 million, respectively. Penalties
recognized in fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $(0.5) million, $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
 
The following table summarizes the activity
related to the unrecognized tax benefits for the fiscal years ended January 2, 2010, January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011 (dollars
in thousands):
  


Balance at January 3, 2009 
$10,372 

  
   

Increases to current year tax positions 
 3,316 

Increase to prior year tax positions 
 7,474 

Decrease to prior year tax positions 
 (911)

  
   

Balance at January 2, 2010 
$20,251 

  
   

Increases to current year tax positions 
 3,524 

Increase to prior year tax positions 
 1,700 

Decrease to prior year tax positions 
 (7,689)

  
   

Balance at January 1, 2011 
$17,786 

  
   

Increases to current year tax positions 
 2,113 

Increase to prior year tax positions 
 334 

Decrease to prior year tax positions 
 (2,393)

Settlements 
 (1,494)

Lapse of statute of limitations 
 (755)

  
   

Balance at December 31, 2011 
$15,591 

 

61
 

 
The
company operates in multiple taxing jurisdictions; both within the United States and outside of the United States, and faces audits
from various tax authorities. The company remains subject to examination until the statute of limitations expires for the respective
tax jurisdiction. Within specific countries, the company and its operating subsidiaries may be subject to audit by various tax
authorities and may be subject to different statute of limitations expiration dates.

It
is reasonably possible that the amounts of unrecognized tax benefits associated with state, federal and foreign tax positions
may decrease over the next twelve months due to expiration of a statute or completion of an audit. The company believes that it
is reasonably possible that approximately $3.7 million of its currently remaining unrecognized tax benefits may be recognized
by the end of 2012 as a result of settlements with taxing authorities or lapses of statutes of limitations.

A
summary of the tax years that remain subject to examination in the company’s major tax jurisdictions are:
 


United States – federal
2008 – 2011

United States – states
2004 – 2011

Austrailia
2011

Brazil
2010 - 2011

Canada
2009 – 2011

China
2003 – 2011

Denmark
2007 – 2011

France
2011

Germany
2011

Italy
2009 – 2011

Mexico
2006 – 2011

Philippines
2007 – 2011

South Korea
2006 – 2011

Spain
2008 – 2011

Taiwan
2008 – 2011

United Kingdom
2008 – 2011

 

62
 

 

(7)FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
ASC 815 “Derivatives and Hedging”
requires an entity to recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities and measure those instruments at fair value. Derivatives
that do not qualify as a hedge must be adjusted to fair value in earnings. If the derivative does qualify as a hedge under ASC
815, changes in the fair value will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm
commitments or recognized in other accumulated other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The
ineffective portion of a hedge's change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings.
 

(a)Foreign Exchange
 
The company periodically enters into derivative
instruments, principally forward contracts to reduce exposures pertaining to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The fair value
of these forward contracts was $0.5 million at the end of the year.
 

(b)Interest Rate
 
The company has entered into interest rate
swaps to fix the interest rate applicable to certain of its variable-rate debt. The agreements swap one-month LIBOR for fixed rates.
The company has designated these swaps as cash flow hedges and all changes in fair value of the swaps are recognized in accumulated
other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2011, the fair value of these instruments was a loss of $3.2 million. The change
in fair value of these swap agreements in 2011 was a liability of $0.6 million, net of taxes.
 
A summary of the company’s interest
rate swaps is as follows:
 



  
   
Twelve Months Ended 

  
Location  
Dec 31, 2011  
Jan 1, 2011 

  
  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
   
  

Fair value 
Other liabilities  
$(3,216) 
$(2,186)

  
   
    
   

Amount of gain/(loss) recognized in other comprehensive income 
Other comprehensive income  
$(4,045) 
$(2,504)

  
   
    
   

Gain/(loss) reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (effective portion) 
Interest expense  
$(3,019) 
$(3,277)

  
   
    
   

Gain/(loss) recognized in income (ineffective portion) 
Other expense  
$(4) 
$7 

  
    
    
   


Interest rate swaps are subject to default
risk to the extent the counterparty is unable to satisfy its settlement obligations under the interest rate swap agreements. The
company reviews the credit profile of the financial institutions that are counterparties to such swap agreements and assesses their
creditworthiness prior to entering into the interest rate swap agreements and throughout the term. The interest rate swap agreements
typically contain provisions that allow the counterparty to require early settlement in the event that the company becomes insolvent
or is unable to maintain compliance with its covenants under its existing debt agreement.
 

63
 

 

(8)LEASE COMMITMENTS
 
The company leases warehouse space, office
facilities and equipment under operating leases, which expire in fiscal 2012 and thereafter. Future payment obligations under these
leases are as follows:
 


  
   
Idle  
  

  
Operating  
Facility  
Total Lease 

  
Leases  
Leases  
Commitments 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

2012 
$7,286  
$174  
$7,460 

2013 
 4,392  
 —  
 4,392 

2014 
 3,814  
 —  
 3,814 

2015 
 2,775  
 —  
 2,775 

2016 
 1,260  
 —  
 1,260 

2017 and thereafter 
 1,685  
 —  
 1,685 

  
    
    
   

  
$21,212  
$174  
$21,386 

 
Rental expense pertaining to the operating
leases was $6.6 million, $5.6 million, and $5.6 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 respectively.
 
The idle lease obligations relate to a manufacturing
facility in Verdi, Nevada that was exited in 2009 in conjunction with manufacturing consolidation efforts.  Obligations under
this lease extend through June 2012.  The company has established reserves of $0.2 million representing the remaining obligations
under this lease.  Management believes the remaining reserve balance is adequate to cover costs associated with the lease
obligation. 
 

(9)SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
The company operates in two reportable operating segments defined
by management reporting structure and operating activities.
 
The Commercial Foodservice Equipment Group manufactures, sells,
and distributes cooking equipment for the restaurant and institutional kitchen industry. This business segment has manufacturing
facilities in California, Illinois, Michigan, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Australia, China, Denmark,
Italy, the Philippines and the United Kingdom. Principal product lines of this group include conveyor ovens, ranges, steamers,
convection ovens, combi-ovens, broilers and steam cooking equipment, induction cooking systems, baking and proofing ovens, charbroilers,
catering equipment, fryers, toasters, hot food servers, foodwarming equipment, griddles, coffee and beverage dispensing equipment
and kitchen processing and ventilation equipment. These products are sold and marketed under the brand names: Anets, Beech, Blodgett,
Blodgett Combi, Blodgett Range, Bloomfield, Britannia, CTX, Carter-Hoffmann, CookTek, Doyon, Frifri, Giga, Holman, Houno, IMC,
Jade, Lang, Lincat, MagiKitch’n, Middleby Marshall, MPC, Nu-Vu, PerfectFry, Pitco, Southbend, Star, Toastmaster, TurboChef
and Wells.
 
The Food Processing Equipment Group manufactures
preparation, cooking, packaging and food safety equipment for the food processing industry. This business segment has manufacturing
operations in Illinois, Iowa, Virginia, Wisconsin, Australia, France, Germany and Mexico. Principal product lines of this group
include batch ovens, belt ovens, continuous processing ovens, automated thermal processing systems, automated loading and unloading
systems, meat presses, breading, battering, mixing, forming, grinding and slicing equipment, food suspension, reduction and emulsion
systems, defrosting equipment, packaging and food safety equipment. These products are sold and marketed under the brand names:
Alkar, Armor Inox, Auto-Bake, Danfotech, Drake, Maurer-Atmos, MP Equipment and RapidPak.
 
The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. The chief operating decision maker evaluates
individual segment performance based on operating income. Management believes that intersegment sales are made at established arms
length transfer prices.
 

64
 

 
The following table summarizes the results
of operations for the company’s business segments1 (dollars in thousands):
 


  
Commercial  
Food  
Corporate  
  

  
Foodservice  
Processing  
and Other(2)  
Total 

2011 
    
    
    
   

Net sales 
$723,274  
$132,633  
$—  
$855,907 

Operating income 
 181,963  
 19,997  
 (53,250) 
 148,710 

Depreciation and amortization expense 
 15,839  
 3,053  
 816  
 19,708 

Net capital expenditures 
 6,896  
 447  
 497  
 7,840 

Total assets 
 752,876  
 238,724  
 154,912  
 1,146,512 

Long-lived assets 
 519,517  
 146,281  
 113,331  
 779,129 

  
    
    
    
   

2010 
    
    
    
   

Net sales 
$611,596  
$107,525  
$—  
$719,121 

Operating income 
 148,443  
 20,580  
 (46,235) 
 122,788 

Depreciation and amortization expense 
 13,331  
 3,130  
 553  
 17,014 

Net capital expenditures 
 2,810  
 136  
 213  
 3,159 

Total assets 
 712,738  
 103,829  
 56,605  
 873,172 

Long-lived assets 
 521,915  
 57,950  
 29,648  
 609,513 

  
    
    
    
   

2009 
    
    
    
   

Net sales 
$580,704  
$65,925  
$—  
$646,629 

Operating income 
 130,557  
 12,193  
 (31,309) 
 111,441 

Depreciation and amortization expense 
 14,135  
 1,350  
 403  
 15,888 

Net capital expenditures 
 5,249  
 20  
 461  
 5,730 

Total assets 
 694,026  
 69,137  
 53,183  
 816,346 

Long-lived assets 
 527,250  
 43,518  
 28,552  
 599,320 

 

(1)Non-operating expenses are not allocated to the reportable segments. Non-operating expenses consist of interest expense
and deferred financing amortization, foreign exchange gains and losses and other income and expense items outside of income from
operations.

(2)Includes corporate and other general company assets and operations.
 
Long-lived assets by major geographic region
are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
   
  

United States and Canada 
$605,146  
$585,614  
$571,688 

  
    
    
   

Asia 
 35,311  
 1,805  
 1,878 

Europe and Middle East 
 137,642  
 21,143  
 25,546 

Latin America 
 1,030  
 951  
 208 

Total international 
 173,983  
 23,899  
 27,632 

  
    
    
   

  
$779,129  
$609,513  
$599,320 

 

65
 

 
Net sales by each major geographic region
are as follows:
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
(dollars in thousands) 

  
   
   
  

United States and Canada 
$613,081  
$575,527  
$530,644 

  
    
    
   

Asia 
 61,078  
 42,786  
 28,936 

Europe and Middle East 
 137,335  
 79,859  
 69,773 

Latin America 
 44,413  
 20,949  
 17,276 

Total international 
 242,826  
 143,594  
 115,985 

  
    
    
   

  
$855,907  
$719,121  
$646,629 

 

(10)EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT PLANS
 

(a)Pension Plans
 
The company maintains a non-contributory
defined benefit plan for its union employees at the Elgin, Illinois facility. Benefits are determined based upon retirement age
and years of service with the company. This defined benefit plan was frozen on April 30, 2002, and no further benefits accrue to
the participants beyond this date. Plan participants will receive or continue to receive payments for benefits earned on or prior
to April 30, 2002 upon reaching retirement age. The employees participating in the defined benefit plan were enrolled in a newly
established 401K savings plan on July 1, 2002, further described below.
 
The company maintains a non-contributory
defined benefit plan for its employees at the Smithville, Tennessee facility, which was acquired as part of the Star acquisition.
Benefits are determined based upon retirement age and years of service with the company. This defined benefit plan was frozen on
April 1, 2008, and no further benefits accrue to the participants beyond this date. Plan participants will receive or continue
to receive payments for benefits earned on or prior to April 1, 2008 upon reaching retirement age.
 
The company maintains a defined benefit
plan for its employees at the Wrexham, the United Kingdom facility, which was acquired as part of the Lincat acquisition. Benefits
are determined based upon retirement age and years of service with the company. This defined benefit plan was frozen on April 30,
2010 prior to Middleby’s acquisition of the company. No further benefits accrue to the participants beyond this date. Plan
participants will receive or continue to receive payments for benefits earned on or prior to April 30, 2010 upon reaching retirement
age.
 
The company also maintains a retirement
benefit agreement with its Chairman. The retirement benefits are based upon a percentage of the Chairman’s final base salary.
Additionally, the company maintains a retirement plan for non-employee directors participating on the Board of Directors prior
to 2004 (together with the Chairman’s agreement the “Director Plans”). In November 2010, the Board of Directors
approved a revision to the directors’ compensation program that resulted in the plan being frozen and benefits being distributed
to vested plan participants. Benefit distributions were made in December 2010 and in January 2011 subsequent to the fiscal year
end. As of December 31, 2011, there are no longer any participants in the retirement plan for non-employee directors. This plan
is not available to any new non-employee directors.
 

66
 

 
A summary of the plans’ net periodic
pension cost, benefit obligations, funded status, and net balance sheet position is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 



  
2011  
2011  
2011  
2011  
2010  
2010  
2010 

  
Elgin  
Smithville  
Wrexham  
Director  
Elgin  
Smithville  
Director 

  
Plan  
Plan  
Plan  
Plans  
Plan  
Plan  
Plans 

Net Periodic Pension Cost: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Service cost 
$—  
$—  
$—  
$1,123  
$—  
$—  
$1,091 

Interest cost 
 226  
 669  
 415  
 472  
 231  
 635  
 435 

Expected return on assets 
 (178) 
 (571) 
 (480) 
 —  
 (167) 
 (523) 
 — 

Amortization of net loss 
 125  
 203  
 —  
 507  
 114  
 119  
 — 

Pension settlement 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 13  
 —  
 —  
 172 

  
$173  
$301  
$(65) 
$2,115  
$178  
$231  
$1,698 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Change in Benefit Obligation: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Benefit obligation – beginning of year 
$4,142  
$11,958  
$—  
$7,028  
$4,095  
$10,821  
$6,153 

Benefit obligations – acquisitions 
 —  
 —  
 13,328  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Service cost 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 1,123  
 —  
 —  
 1,091 

Interest on benefit obligations 
 226  
 669  
 415  
 472  
 231  
 635  
 435 

Actuarial losses 
 695  
 2,978  
 192  
 3,043  
 85  
 843  
 — 

Pension settlement 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 12  
 —  
 —  
 172 

Net benefit payments 
 (262) 
 (401) 
 (246) 
 (300) 
 (269) 
 (341) 
 (823)

Benefit obligation – end of year 
$4,801  
$15,204  
$13,689  
$11,378  
$4,142  
$11,958  
$7,028 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Change in Plan Assets: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Plan assets at fair value – beginning of year 
$3,342  
$8,253  
$—  
$—  
$3,189  
$7,526  
$— 

Plan assets at fair value – acquisitions 
 —  
 —  
 11,798  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Company contributions 
 156  
 225  
 465  
 300  
 118  
 250  
 823 

Investment (loss) gain 
 (49) 
 (257) 
 (499) 
 —  
 304  
 818  
 — 

Benefit payments and plan expenses 
 (261) 
 (401) 
 (246) 
 (300) 
 (269) 
 (341) 
 (823)

Plan assets at fair value – end of year 
$3,188  
$7,820  
$11,518  
$—  
$3,342  
$8,253  
$— 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Funded Status: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Unfunded benefit obligation 
$(1,614) 
$(7,384) 
$(2,170) 
$(11,378) 
$(799) 
$(3,704) 
$(7,028)

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Amounts recognized in balance sheet at year end: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Other noncurrent liabilities 
$(1,614) 
$(7,384) 
$(2,170) 
$(11,378) 
$(799) 
$(3,704) 
$(7,028)

Pre-tax components in accumulated other comprehensive income: 
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Net actuarial loss 
$2,102  
$6,291  
$1,409  
$2,536  
$1,304  
$2,689  
$— 

Net prior service cost 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Net transaction (asset) obligations 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Total amount recognized 
$2,102  
$6,291  
$1,409  
$2,536  
$1,304  
$2,689  
$— 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Accumulated Benefit Obligation 
$4,801  
$15,204  
$13,689  
$3,999  
$4,142  
$11,958  
$4,371 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Salary growth rate 
 n/a  
 n/a  
 n/a  
 10.0% 
 n/a  
 n/a  
 10.0%

Assumed discount rate 
 4.3% 
 4.3% 
 4.7% 
 4.3% 
 5.5% 
 5.5% 
 6.0%

Expected return on assets 
 5.5% 
 7.0% 
 6.6% 
 n/a  
 5.5% 
 7.0% 
 n/a 

 

67
 

 
The company has engaged non-affiliated third
party professional investment advisors to assist the company to develop its investment policy and establish asset allocations.
The company's overall investment objective is to provide a return, that along with company contributions, is expected to meet future
benefit payments. Investment policy is established in consideration of anticipated future timing of benefit payments under the
plans. The anticipated duration of the investment and the potential for investment losses during that period are carefully weighed
against the potential for appreciation when making investment decisions. The company routinely monitors the performance of investments
made under the plans and reviews investment policy in consideration of changes made to the plans or expected changes in the timing
of future benefit payments.
 
The assets of the plans were invested in
the following classes of securities (none of which were securities of the company):
 
Elgin Plan
 


  
Target Allocation  
Percentage of Plan Assets 

  
   
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Equity 
 48% 
 49% 
 48%

Fixed income 
 40% 
 37  
 32 

Money market 
 4% 
 5  
 12 

Other (real estate & commodities) 
 8% 
 9  
 8 

  
 100% 
 100% 
 100%

 
Smithville Plan
 


  
Target Allocation  
Percentage of Plan Assets 

  
   
2011  
2010 

  
   
   
  

Equity 
 48% 
 51% 
 56%

Fixed income 
 40% 
 37  
 36 

Money market 
 4% 
 4  
 - 

Other (real estate & commodities) 
 8% 
 8  
 8 

  
 100% 
 100% 
 100%

 
Wrexham Plan
 


  
Target Allocation  
Percentage of Plan Assets 

  
   
2011 

  
   
  

Equity 
 50% 
 66%

Fixed income 
 50% 
 27 

Money market 
 —%  
 7 

  
 100% 
 100%

 


68
 

 



 
In accordance with ASC 820 “Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures”, the company has measured its defined benefit pension plans at fair value. The following tables
summarize the basis used to measure the pension plans’ assets at fair value as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):
 
Elgin Plan
 



Asset Category 
Total  
Quoted Prices
in Active
Markets for Identical
Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Observable
Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

  
   
   
   
  

Short Term Investment Fund (a) 
$169  
$—  
$169  
$— 

  
    
    
    
   

Equity Securities: 
    
    
    
   

Large Cap 
 768  
 768  
 —  
 — 

Mid Cap 
 86  
 86  
 —  
 — 

Small Cap 
 121  
 121  
 —  
 — 

International 
 607  
 607  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Fixed Income: 
    
    
    
   

Government/Corporate 
 989  
 989  
 —  
 — 

High Yield 
 183  
 183  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Alternative: 
    
    
    
   

Global Real Estate 
 88  
 88  
 —  
 — 

Commodities 
 177  
 177  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$3,188  
$3,019  
$169  
$— 



 

(a)Represents collective short term investment fund, composed of high-grade money market instruments with short maturities.
 
Smithville Plan
 


Asset Category 
Total  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

  
   
   
   
  

Short Term Investment Fund (a) 
$328  
$—  
$328  
$— 

  
    
    
    
   

Equity Securities: 
    
    
    
   

Large Cap 
 1,895  
 1,895  
 —  
 — 

Mid Cap 
 209  
 209  
 —  
 — 

Small Cap 
 328  
 328  
 —  
 — 

International 
 1,535  
 1,535  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Fixed Income: 
    
    
 —  
 — 

Government/Corporate 
 2,435  
 2,435  
    
   

High Yield 
 449  
 449  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Alternative: 
    
    
    
   

Global Real Estate 
 225  
 225  
 —  
 — 

Commodities 
 416  
 416  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$7,820  
$7,492  
$328  
$— 

 

(a)Represents collective short term investment fund, composed of high-grade money market instruments with short maturities.
 

69
 

 
Wrexham Plan
 


Asset Category 
Total  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

  
   
   
   
  

Short Term Investment Fund (a) 
$800  
$—  
$800  
$— 

  
    
    
    
   

Equity Securities: 
    
    
    
   

UK 
 3,599  
 3,599  
 —  
 — 

International 
    
    
    
   

Developed 
 2,008  
 2,008  
 —  
 — 

Emerging 
 341  
 341  
 —  
 — 

Global 
 1,604  
 1,604  
 —  
 — 

Fixed Income: 
    
    
 —  
 — 

Government/Corporate 
 1,802  
 1,802  
 —  
 — 

Aggregate 
 354  
 354  
 —  
 — 

Index Linked 
 1,010  
 1,010  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$11,518  
$10,718  
$800  
$— 

 

(a)Represents collective short term investment fund, composed of high-grade money market instruments with short maturities.
 
The fair value of the Level 1 assets is
based on observable, quoted market prices of the identical underlying security in an active market. The fair value of the Level
2 assets is primarily based on market observable inputs to quoted market prices, benchmark yields and broker/dealer quotes. Level
3 inputs, as applicable, represent unobservable inputs that reflect assumptions developed by management to measure assets at fair
value.
 
The expected return on assets is developed
in consideration of the anticipated duration of investment period for assets held by the plan, the allocation of assets in the
plan, and the historical returns for plan assets.
 
Estimated future benefit payments under the plans are as follows
(dollars in thousands):
 


  
Elgin Plan  
Smithville Plan  
Wrexham Plan  
Director Plans 

2012 
$304  
$409  
$465  
$— 

2013 
 309  
 461  
 480  
 — 

2014 
 302  
 496  
 496  
 — 

2015 
 297  
 516  
 511  
 — 

2016 through 2021 
 1,788  
 3,945  
 3,392  
 6,865 

 
Contributions to the directors plans are
based upon actual retirement benefits for directors as they retire. Contributions under the Smithville and Elgin plans are funded
in accordance with provisions of The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Expected contributions to the Elgin, Smithville
and Wrexham plans to be made in 2012 are $0.1 million, $0.3 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
 

(b)401K Savings Plans
 
As of December 31, 2011, the company maintained
two separate defined contribution 401K savings plans covering all employees in the United States. These two plans separately cover
the union employees at the Elgin, Illinois facility and all other remaining union and non-union employees in the United States.
 
In conjunction with the freeze on future
benefits under the defined benefit plan for union employees at the Elgin, Illinois facility, the company established a 401K savings
plan for this group of employees. The company makes contributions to this plan in accordance with its agreement with the union.
These contributions amounted to less than $0.1 million for each of the years presented. There were no other profit sharing contributions
to the 401K savings plans for 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 

70
 

 
(11)     	QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)
 


  
 1st 
 2nd 
 3rd 
 4th 
 Total Year 

 
 (dollars in thousands, except per share data)  
   

  
   
   

2011 
    
    
    
    
  

Net sales 
$182,572  
$210,855  
$218,720  
$243,760  
$855,907 

Gross profit 
 71,830  
 85,337  
 87,318  
 99,652  
 344,137 

Income from operations 
 31,364  
 35,248  
 37,186  
 44,912  
 148,710 

Net earnings 
$17,825  
$19,628  
$23,461  
$34,559  
$95,473 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Basic earnings per share (1) 
$1.00  
$1.09  
$1.30  
$1.92  
$5.30 

Diluted earnings per share (1) 
$0.97  
$1.06  
$1.26  
$1.87  
$5.15 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2010  
    
    
    
    
  

Net sales 
$160,683  
$173,412  
$177,793  
$207,233  
$719,121 

Gross profit 
 63,473  
 69,424  
 70,687  
 83,093  
 286,677 

Income from operations 
 26,435  
 29,729  
 32,011  
 34,613  
 122,788 

Net earnings 
$13,762  
$17,509  
$20,602  
$20,994  
$72,867 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Basic earnings per share (1) 
$0.78  
$0.98  
$1.16  
$1.18  
$4.09 

Diluted earnings per share (1) 
$0.74  
$0.96  
$1.13  
$1.13  
$3.97 

 

(1)Sum of quarters may not equal the total for the year due to changes in the number of shares outstanding during the
                                                                   year.
 

71
 

 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING
ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011,
JANUARY 1, 2011
AND JANUARY 2, 2010
 



  
   
Additions/  
   
   
  

  
Balance  
(Recoveries)  
Write-Offs  
   
Balance 

  
Beginning  
Charged  
During the  
   
At End 

  
Of Period  
to Expense  
the Period  
Acquisition  
Of Period 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Allowance for 
    
    
    
    
   

doubtful accounts; deducted from 
    
    
    
    
   

accounts receivable on the 
    
    
    
    
   

balance sheets- 
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
   

2011 
$7,975,000  
$83,000  
$(1,180,000) 
$—  
$6,878,000 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2010 
$6,596,000  
$1,599,000  
$(512,000) 
$292,000  
$7,975,000 

  
    
    
    
    
   

2009 
$6,598,000  
$(556,000) 
$(562,000) 
$1,116,000  
$6,596,000 



 

72
 

 
Item 9.	  Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
None
 
Item 9A.	Controls and
Procedures
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
 
The company maintains disclosure controls
and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(the Exchange Act)) as of the end of the period covered by this report that are designed to ensure that information required to
be disclosed in the company's Exchange Act reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the company's management, including
its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the company carried
out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the company's management, including the company's Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company's disclosure controls
and procedures. Based on the foregoing, the company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the company's
disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of this period.
 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting
 
During the quarter ended December 31, 2011,
there have been no changes in the company's internal controls over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's
internal control over financial reporting.
 

73
 

 
Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d -15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that:
 

(i)pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions
of our assets;
 

(ii)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance
with authorizations of our management and directors; and
 

(iii)provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Our assessment of the internal control structure
excluded J.W. Beech Pty. Ltd. (acquired April 12, 2011), Lincat Group PLC (acquired May 27, 2011), Danfotech, Inc. (acquired
July 5, 2011), Maurer-Atmos GmbH (acquired July 22, 2011), Auto-Bake Pty Ltd. (acquired August 1, 2011), F.R. Drake Company (acquired
December 2, 2011), and Armor Inox S.A. (acquired December 21, 2011). These acquisitions constitute 38.2% and 21.7% of net and total
assets, respectively, 6.0% of net sales and 2.4% of net income of the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and
for the year ended December 31, 2011. These acquisitions are included in the consolidated financial
statements of the company as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. Under guidelines established by the Securities Exchange
Commission, companies are allowed to exclude acquisitions from their assessment of internal control over financial reporting during
the first year of an acquisition while integrating the acquired company.
 
Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control
- Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December
31, 2011. Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, who audited and reported on the consolidated
financial statements of the company included in this report, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company's
internal contorol over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.
 
The Middleby Corporation
March 15, 2012
 

74
 

 
Item 9B.	  Other Information
 
None.
 

75
 

 
PART
III
 
Pursuant to General Instruction G (3), of
Form 10-K, the information called for by Part III (Item 10 (Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant), Item 11 (Executive
Compensation), Item 12 (Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters), Item 13
(Certain Relationships and Related Transactions) and Item 14 (Principal Accountant Fees and Services), is incorporated herein by
reference from the registrant’s definitive proxy statement filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A not later
than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.
 

76
 

 
PART IV
 
Item 15.	Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules 
 


(a)
1.
Financial statements.

 
The financial statements listed on
Page 48 are filed as part of this Form 10-K.
 

3.Exhibits.
 

2.1Stock Purchase Agreement, dated August 30, 2001, between The Middleby Corporation and Maytag Corporation, incorporated by reference
to the company's Form 10-Q Exhibit 2.1, for the fiscal period ended September 29, 2001, filed on November 13, 2001.
 

2.2Amendment No. 1 to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated December 21, 2001, between The Middleby Corporation and Maytag Corporation,
incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 2.2 dated December 21, 2001, filed on January 7, 2002.
 

2.3Amendment No. 2 to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated December 23, 2002 between The Middleby Corporation and Maytag Corporation,
incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 2.1 dated December 23, 2002, filed on January 7, 2003.
 

2.4Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 18, 2007, by and among Middleby Marshall, Inc., New Cardinal Acquisition
Sub Inc., New Star International Holdings, Inc. and Weston Presidio Capital IV, L.P., incorporated by reference to the company’s
Form 8-K, Exhibit 2.1, dated November, 18, 2007, filed on November 23, 2007. 
   



2.5Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of August 12, 2008, by and among The Middleby Corporation, Chef Acquisition Corporation
and TurboChef Technologies, Inc., incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K, Exhibit 2.1, dated August 12, 2008,
filed on August 15, 2008.
 

2.6Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 21, 2008, by and among The Middleby Corporation, Chef Acquisition
Corporation and TurboChef Technologies, Inc., incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K, Exhibit 2.1, dated November
21, 2008, filed on November 21, 2008.
 

3.1Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Middleby Corporation (effective as of May 13, 2005), incorporated by reference
to the company's Form 8-K, Exhibit 3.1, dated April 29, 2005, filed on May 17, 2005.
 

3.2Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of The Middleby Corporation (effective as of December 31, 2007), incorporated by reference
to the company's Form 8-K, Exhibit 3.1, dated December 31, 2007, filed on January 4, 2008.
 

3.3Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Middleby Corporation (effective as of May 3, 2007),
incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K, Exhibit 3.1, dated May 3, 2007, filed on May 3, 2007.

 

4.1Certificate of Designations dated October 30, 1987, and
specimen stock certificate relating to the company	 Preferred Stock, incorporated by reference from the company’s Form
10-K, Exhibit (4), for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988, filed on March 15, 1989.

 

77
 

 

10.1Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as of December 28 2007, among The Middleby Corporation, Middleby Marshall, Inc.,
Various Financial Institutions, Wells Fargo Bank, Inc., Wells Fargo Bank N.A., as syndication agent, Royal Bank of Canada, RBS
Citizens, N.A., as Co-Documentation Agents, Fifth Third Bank and National City Bank as Co-Agents and Bank of America N.A., as Administrative
Agent, Issuing Lender and Swing Line Lender, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.1, dated December 28,
2007, filed on January 4, 2008.
 

10.2*Amended 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, dated December
15, 2003, incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 10-K, Exhibit 10.21, for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2004,
filed on April 2, 2004.

 

10.3*Employment Agreement of Selim A. Bassoul dated December
23, 2004, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.1, dated December 23, 2004, filed on December 28, 2004.

 

10.4*Amended and Restated Management Incentive Compensation
Plan, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.1, dated February 25, 2005, filed on March 3, 2005.

 

10.5*Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and
between The Middleby Corporation and Timothy J. FitzGerald, dated March 1, 2010, incorporated by reference to the company's Form
8-K Exhibit 10.1, dated March 1,2010, filed on March 4, 2010.

 

10.6*Form of The Middleby Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan Restricted Stock Agreement, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.2, dated March 7, 2005, filed
on March 8, 2005.

 

10.7*Form of The Middleby Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive
Plan Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.1, dated April 29, 2005,
filed on May 5, 2005.

 

10.8*Form of Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement,
incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.2, dated April 29, 2005, filed on May 5, 2005.

 

10.9*The Middleby Corporation Amended and Restated Management
Incentive Compensation Plan, effective as of January 1, 2005, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.1,
dated April 29, 2005, filed on May 17, 2005.

 

10.10*Amendment to The Middleby Corporation 1998 Stock
Incentive Plan, effective as of January 1, 2005, incorporated by reference to the company's Form 8-K Exhibit 10.2, dated April
29, 2005, filed on May 17, 2005.

 

10.11*Revised Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for The
Middleby Corporation 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, , incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K, Exhibit 10.1, dated
March 8, 2007, filed on March 14, 2007.

 

10.12*Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for The Middleby
Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K, Exhibit 10.2, dated May 3, 2007,
filed on May 7, 2007.

 

10.13First Amendment to the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as of August 8, 2008, among The Middleby Corporation,
Middleby Marshall Inc., Various Financial Institutions and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent, incorporated by reference
to the company’s Form 8-K Exhibit 10.1, dated August 8, 2008, filed on August 8, 2008.
 

78
 

 

10.14*Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between
The Middleby Corporation and Selim A. Bassoul, dated as of December 31, 2008.

 

10.15*Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for The Middleby
Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K, Exhibit 10.1, dated December
29, 2009, filed on January 5, 2010.

 

10.16*The Middleby Corporation Executive Officer Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated, incorporated by reference to Appendix B
of the company’s definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 28, 2008.
 

10.17*The Middleby Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, incorporated by reference to the company’s Form 8-K,
Exhibit 10.1, dated May 7, 2009, filed May 13, 2009.
 

10.18*The Middleby Corporation 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the company’s definitive
proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commision on April 1, 2011.
 

10.19*The Middleby Corporation Value Creation Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Appendix B to the company’s definitive
proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Comission on April 1, 2011.
 

21List of subsidiaries.
 

23.1Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
 

31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.
 

31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.
 

32.1Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002.
 

32.2Certification
of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

 

101Financial statements on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed on March 15, 2011, formatted in Extensive Business
Reporting Language (XBRL); (i) condensed consolidated balance sheets, (ii) condensed consolidated statements of earnings, (iii)
consolidated statements of cash flows, (iv) notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 

*Designates management contract or compensation plan.
 

(c)See the financial statement schedule included under Item 8.
 

79
 

 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized, on the 15th day of March 2012.
 
THE MIDDLEBY CORPORATION
 


 
BY:
/s/ Timothy J. FitzGerald

 
 
Timothy J. FitzGerald

 
 
Vice President,

 
 
Chief Financial Officer

 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities
indicated on March 15, 2012.
 


Signatures
 
Title

 
 
 

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Selim A. Bassoul
 
Chairman of the Board, President,

Selim A. Bassoul
 
Chief Executive Officer and Director

 
 
 

PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND
 
 

ACCOUNTING OFFICER
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Timothy J. FitzGerald
 
Vice President, Chief Financial

Timothy J. FitzGerald
 
Officer

 
 
 

DIRECTORS
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Robert Lamb
 
Director

Robert Lamb
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  John R. Miller, III
 
Director

John R. Miller, III
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Gordon O'Brien
 
Director

Gordon O'Brien
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Philip G. Putnam
 
Director

Philip G. Putnam
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Sabin C. Streeter
 
Director

Sabin C. Streeter
 
 

 
 
 

/s/  Ryan J. Levenson
 
Director

Ryan J. Levenson
 
 

 

80

 




