
10-K
1
d274411d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


FORM 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  United States Securities and
Exchange Commission  Washington, D.C. 20549  FORM 10-K   


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 


 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 


 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    For the transition period from              to             
 Commission File Number: 1-9047  Independent Bank Corp.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)   






Massachusetts
 
04-2870273

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 Office Address: 2036 Washington Street,
Hanover Massachusetts Mailing Address: 288 Union Street, Rockland, Massachusetts
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
 02339  
02370
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 
(781) 878-6100  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $.0l par value per share
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: 
None  Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  ¨        No  x 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ¨        No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    
Yes  x        No  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x        No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,: “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (check one):
  










Large Accelerated filer ¨
  
Accelerated filer x
  
Non-accelerated filer ¨
  
Smaller reporting company ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes  ¨        No  x 
The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant, computed by reference to the closing price
of such stock on June 30, 2011, was approximately $520,732,643.  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
registrant’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date. February 29, 2012             21,608,224 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  List hereunder the following documents if incorporated by reference and the Part of the Form 10-K (e.g., Part I, Part II, etc.) into which the document is incorporated: (1) Any annual report to
security holders; (2) Any proxy or information statement; and (3) Any prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) or (c) under the Securities Act of 1933. The listed documents should be clearly described for identification purposes
(e.g., annual report to security holders for fiscal year ended December 24, 1980).  Portions of the Registrant’s
definitive proxy statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated into Part III, Items 10-13 of this Form 10-K.   
   
 


Table of Contents
INDEPENDENT BANK CORP. 
2011 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  TABLE OF CONTENTS   










  
 
Page #
 

Part I
  

Item 1.
 
 Business
 
 
5
  


 
 General
 
 
5
  


 
 Market Area and Competition
 
 
6
  


 
 Lending Activities
 
 
6
  


 
 Investment Activities
 
 
12
  


 
 Sources of Funds
 
 
12
  


 
 Investment Management
 
 
14
  


 
 Regulation
 
 
14
  


 
 Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies
 
 
22
  


 
 Securities and Exchange Commission Availability of Filings on Company Website
 
 
22
  

Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
 
23
  

Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 
27
  

Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
 
27
  

Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
 
28
  

Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 
28
  



Part II
  

Item 5.
 
Market for Independent Bank Corp.’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 
29
  

Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
 
32
  

Item 7.
 
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
 
33
  


 
 Table 1 — 
Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale and Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity
 
 
39
  


 
 Table 2 — 
Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale and Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity, Amounts Maturing
 
 
40
  


 
 Table 3 — Residential Mortgage Loan
Sales
 
 
40
  


 
 Table 4 — Loan Portfolio Composition
 
 
41
  


 
 Table 5 — 
Scheduled Contractual Loan Amortization as of December 31, 2011
 
 
42
  


 
 Table 6 — Nonperforming Assets
 
 
44
  


 
 Table 7 — Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
 
45
  


 
 Table 8 — 
Interest Income Recognized/Collected on Nonaccrual Loans and Troubled Debt Restructurings
 
 
45
  


 
 Table 9 — Potential Problem Commercial Loans
 
 
46
  


 
 Table 10 —Summary of Changes in the Allowance for Loan
Losses
 
 
47
  


 
 Table 11 —Summary of Allocation of Allowance for Loan
Losses
 
 
48
  


 
 Table 12 —Average Balances of Deposits
 
 
49
  


 
 Table 13 —Maturities of Time Certificate of Deposits $100,000 and
over
 
 
50
  


 
 Table 14 —Brokered Deposits
 
 
50
  


 
 Table 15 —Borrowings by Category
 
 
50
  


 
 Table 16 —Closed Residential Real Estate Loans
 
 
51
  


 
 Table 17 —Mortgage Servicing Asset
 
 
51
  


 
 Table 18 —Summary of Results of Operations
 
 
52
  


 
 Table 19 —Average Balance, Interest Earned/Paid & Average
Yields
 
 
53
  


 
 Table 20 —Volume Rate Analysis
 
 
54
  


 
 Table 21 —Noninterest
Income
 
 
56
  


 
 Table 22 —Noninterest Expense
 
 
57
  
  1 


Table of Contents










  
 
Page #
 


 
 Table 23 —Tax Provision and Applicable Tax
Rates
 
 
58
  


 
 Table 24 —New Markets Tax Credit Recognition Schedule
 
 
58
  


 
 Table 25 —Interest Rate Sensitivity
 
 
62
  


 
 Table 26 —Sources of Liquidity
 
 
64
  


 
 Table 27 
—Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingencies, and Off-Balance Sheet   Financial Instruments by Maturity
 
 
65
  

Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
 
68
  

Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 
69
  

Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
 
 
139
  

Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
 
139
  

Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
 
141
  



Part III
  

Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 
 
141
  

Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
 
141
  

Item 12.
 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
 
141
  

Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
 
142
  

Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
 
142
  



Part IV
  

Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
 
 
142
  

Signatures 
 
 
145
  

Exhibit 31.1 — Certification 302
 
 
147
  

Exhibit 31.2 — Certification 302
 
 
149
  

Exhibit 32.1 — Certification 906
 
 
151
  

Exhibit 32.2 — Certification 906
 
 
152
  

  2 


Table of Contents
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 
A number of the presentations and disclosures in this Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements regarding the level of
allowance for loan losses, the rate of delinquencies and amounts of charge-offs, and the rates of loan growth, and any statements preceded by, followed by, or which include the words “may,” “could,” “should,”
“will,” “would,” “hope,” “might,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “assume” or similar expressions
constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements, implicitly and explicitly, include the assumptions underlying the statements and other information with respect to the beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, expectations,
anticipations, estimates, intentions, financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business, of the Company including the Company’s expectations and estimates with respect to the Company’s revenues, expenses,
earnings, return on average equity, return on average assets, asset quality and other financial data and capital and performance ratios.  Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the Company’s forward-looking statements are reasonable, these statements involve risks and uncertainties that are subject to change
based on various important factors (some of which are beyond the Company’s control). The following factors, among others, could cause the Company’s financial performance to differ materially from the Company’s goals, plans,
objectives, intentions, expectations and other forward-looking statements:   


 
•
 
 a weakening in the United States economy in general and the regional and local economies within the New England region and the Company’s market
area, which could result in a deterioration of credit quality, a change in the allowance for loan losses, or a reduced demand for the Company’s credit or fee-based products and services; 
 


 
•
 
 adverse changes in the local real estate market could result in a deterioration of credit quality and an increase in the allowance for loan losses, as
most of the Company’s loans are concentrated within the Bank’s primary market area, and a substantial portion of these loans have real estate as collateral; 
 


 
•
 
 the effects of, and changes in, trade, monetary and fiscal policies and laws, including interest rate policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, could affect the Company’s business environment or affect the Company’s operations;   


 
•
 
 the effects of, any changes in, and any failure by the Company to comply with tax laws generally and requirements of the federal New Markets Tax Credit
program in particular could adversely affect the Company’s tax provision and its financial results;   


 
•
 
 inflation, interest rate, market and monetary fluctuations could reduce net interest income and could increase credit losses;
  


 
•
 
 adverse changes in asset quality could result in increasing credit risk-related losses and expenses; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance in future periods may adversely affect financial results; 
 


 
•
 
 competitive pressures could intensify and affect the Company’s profitability, including continued industry consolidation, the increased financial
services provided by nonbanks and banking reform;   


 
•
 
 a deterioration in the conditions of the securities markets could adversely affect the value or credit quality of the Company’s assets, the
availability and terms of funding necessary to meet the Company’s liquidity needs, and the Company’s ability to originate loans and could lead to impairment in the value of securities in the Company’s investment portfolios, having an
adverse effect on the Company’s earnings;   


 
•
 
 a further deterioration of the credit rating for U.S. long-term sovereign debt could adversely impact the Company. On August 5, 2011, Standard and
Poor’s downgraded the U.S. long-term sovereign debt from 
  3 


Table of Contents


 
 
AAA, the highest rating, to AA+, the second highest rating. This downgrade does not directly impact the immediate current financial position or outlook for the Company, but a further downgrade
could result in a re-evaluation of the ‘risk-free’ rate used in many accounting models, other-than-temporary-impairment of securities and/or impairment of goodwill and other intangibles; 
 


 
•
 
 the potential need to adapt to changes in information technology could adversely impact the Company’s operations and require increased capital
spending;   


 
•
 
 the risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals
targeting bank accounts and other customer information, which could adversely impact the Company’s operations, damage its reputation and require increased capital spending; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in consumer spending and savings habits could negatively impact the Company’s financial results; 
 


 
•
 
 acquisitions may not produce results at levels or within time frames originally anticipated and may result in unforeseen integration issues or
impairment of goodwill and/or other intangibles;   


 
•
 
 new laws and regulations regarding the financial services industry including, but not limited to, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act, may have a significant affects on the financial services industry in general, and/or the Company in particular, the exact nature and extent of which is uncertain; 
 


 
•
 
 changes in laws and regulations (including laws and regulations concerning taxes, banking, securities and insurance) generally applicable to the
Company’s business could adversely affect the Company’s operations; and   


 
•
 
 changes in accounting policies, practices and standards, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies as well as the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other accounting standard setters, could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. 
If one or more of the factors affecting the Company’s forward-looking information and statements proves incorrect, then the
Company’s actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, forward-looking information and statements contained in this Form 10-K. Therefore, the Company cautions you not to place undue
reliance on the Company’s forward-looking information and statements.  The Company does not intend to update the
Company’s forward-looking information and statements, whether written or oral, to reflect change. All forward-looking statements attributable to the Company are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. 
  4 


Table of Contents
PART I.  Item 1.    Business  General  Independent Bank Corp. (the
“Company”) is a state chartered, federally registered bank holding company headquartered in Rockland, Massachusetts that was incorporated under Massachusetts law in 1985. The Company is the sole stockholder of Rockland Trust Company
(“Rockland” or the “Bank”), a Massachusetts trust company chartered in 1907. Rockland is a community-oriented commercial bank. The community banking business is the Company’s only reportable operating segment. The community
banking business is managed as a single strategic unit and derives its revenues from a wide range of banking services, including lending activities, acceptance of demand, savings, and time deposits, and investment management. At December 31,
2011, the Company had total assets of $5.0 billion, total deposits of $3.9 billion, stockholders’ equity of $469.1 million, and 909 full-time equivalent employees.  As of December 31, 2011, the Bank had the following corporate subsidiaries, all of which were wholly-owned by the Bank and included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements:
  


 
•
 
 Four Massachusetts security corporations, namely Rockland Borrowing Collateral Securities Corp., Rockland Deposit Collateral Securities Corp., and
Taunton Avenue Securities Corp., which hold securities, industrial development bonds, and other qualifying assets. During 2011 Goddard Avenue Securities Corp. was formed to become a Massachusetts security corporation but, as of December 31,
2011, had not completed the process of security corporation qualification. The Bank anticipates that Goddard Avenue Securities Corp. will apply during 2012 to be qualified as a Massachusetts security corporation; 
 


 
•
 
 Rockland Trust Community Development Corporation, which has two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Rockland Trust Community Development LLC and Rockland Trust
Community Development Corporation II, and which also serves as the manager of two Limited Liability Company subsidiaries wholly-owned by the Bank, Rockland Trust Community Development III LLC and Rockland Trust Community Development IV LLC, all of
which were all formed to qualify as community development entities under federal New Markets Tax Credit Program criteria;   


 
•
 
 Rockland MHEF Fund LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, was established as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Rockland Trust. Massachusetts Housing
Equity Fund, Inc. is the third party nonmember manager of Rockland MHEF Fund LLC which was established in connection with a low-income housing tax credit investment; 
 


 
•
 
 Rockland Trust Phoenix LLC, which was established to hold other real estate owned acquired during loan workouts; 
 


 
•
 
 Compass Exchange Advisors LLC which provides like-kind exchange services pursuant to section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code; and
  


 
•
 
 Bright Rock Capital Management LLC, which was established to act as a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940.
 The Company is currently the sponsor of Independent Capital Trust V (“Trust V”), a Delaware
statutory trust, and Slade’s Ferry Statutory Trust I (“Slade’s Ferry Trust I”), a Connecticut statutory trust, each of which was formed to issue trust preferred securities. Trust V and Slade’s Ferry Trust I are not included
in the Company’s consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of the consolidation topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). 
Periodically, the Bank acts as Qualified Intermediary (“QI”) and/or Exchange Accommodation Titleholder (“EAT”) in
connection with customers’ like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code 
  5 


Table of Contents

through its subsidiary Compass Exchange Advisors, LLC. The Internal Revenue Service established a “safe harbor” procedure, Revenue Procedure 2000-37, that allows an EAT to hold title to
property for up to 180 days. This Revenue Procedure also allows the customer to: lend the EAT all of the funds needed to acquire the property on a nonrecourse basis, manage the property, and receive all of the economic benefit of the property while
title is held by the EAT. Compass Exchange Advisors LLC may form various entities to act as EATs and take title to customer’s property in connection with the customer’s 1031 exchange. In each transaction in which an entity owned by the
Bank acts as EAT, any funds borrowed are nonrecourse to the EAT and Bank, no economic investment is made in the property and the EAT derives no profit or loss from the ownership or operation of the property (other than its fees for services).
Accordingly, any property owned by an entity as EAT is not consolidated by the Bank.  Market Area and
Competition  The Bank contends with considerable competition both in generating loans and attracting deposits. The
Bank’s competition for generating loans is primarily from other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, finance companies, and other institutional lenders. Competitive factors considered
for loan generation include interest rates, terms offered, loan fees charged, loan products offered, services provided, and geographic locations.  In attracting deposits, the Bank’s primary competitors are savings banks, commercial and co-operative banks, credit unions, internet banks, as well as other nonbank institutions that offer financial
alternatives such as brokerage firms and insurance companies. Competitive factors considered in attracting and retaining deposits include deposit and investment products and their respective rates of return, liquidity, and risk, among other factors,
such as convenient branch locations and hours of operation, personalized customer service, online access to accounts, and automated teller machines.  The Bank’s market area is attractive and entry into the market by financial institutions previously not competing in the market area may continue to occur which could impact the Bank’s growth or
profitability.  Lending Activities 
The Bank’s gross loan portfolio (loans before allowance for loan losses) amounted to $3.8 billion on December 31, 2011, or 76.3%
of total assets. The Bank classifies loans as commercial, consumer real estate, or other consumer. Commercial loans consist of commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate, commercial construction, and small business loans. Commercial and
industrial loans generally consist of loans with credit needs in excess of $250,000 and revenue in excess of $2.5 million, for working capital and other business-related purposes and floor plan financing. Commercial real estate loans are comprised
of commercial mortgages, including mortgages for construction purposes that are secured by nonresidential properties, multifamily properties, or one-to-four family rental properties. Small business loans, including real estate loans, generally
consist of loans to businesses with commercial credit needs of less than or equal to $250,000 and revenues of less than $2.5 million. Consumer real estate consists of residential mortgages and home equity loans and lines that are secured primarily
by owner-occupied residences and mortgages for the construction of residential properties. Other consumer loans are mainly personal loans and automobile loans.  The Bank’s borrowers consist of small-to-medium sized businesses and consumers. The Bank’s market area is generally comprised of eastern Massachusetts, including Cape Cod and Rhode Island.
Substantially all of the Bank’s commercial, consumer real estate, and other consumer loan portfolios consist of loans made to residents of and businesses located in the Bank’s market area. The majority of the real estate loans in the
Bank’s loan portfolio are secured by properties located within this market area. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Interest rates charged on loans may be fixed or variable and vary with the degree of risk,
loan term, underwriting and servicing costs, loan amount, and the extent of other banking relationships maintained with customers. Rates are further subject to competitive pressures, the current interest rate environment, availability of funds, and
government regulations.  The Bank’s principal earning assets are its loans. Although the Bank judges its borrowers to be
creditworthy, the risk of deterioration in borrowers’ abilities to repay their loans in accordance with their existing loan agreements is inherent in any lending function. Participating as a lender in the credit market requires a strict
underwriting and monitoring process to minimize credit risk. This process requires substantial analysis of the loan application, an evaluation of the customer’s capacity to repay according to the loan’s contractual terms, and an objective
determination of the value of the collateral. The Bank also utilizes the services of an independent third-party to provide loan review services, which consist of a variety of monitoring techniques performed after a loan becomes part of the
Bank’s portfolio.  The Bank’s Controlled Asset and Consumer Collections departments are responsible for the
management and resolution of nonperforming loans. Nonperforming loans consist of nonaccrual loans and loans that are more than 90 days past due but still accruing interest. In the course of resolving nonperforming loans, the Bank may choose to
restructure the contractual terms of certain loans. Terms may be modified to fit the ability of the borrower to repay in line with its current financial status. When residential loans are modified, the borrower must perform during a 90 day trial
period before the modification is finalized. It is the Bank’s practice to have any restructured loans which are on nonaccrual status prior to being modified remain on nonaccrual status for six months, including the trial period, before
management considers its return to accrual status. If the restructured loan is on accrual status prior to being modified, it is reviewed to determine if the modified loan should remain on accrual status. 
Other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”) includes properties controlled by the Bank. In order to facilitate the disposition of OREO,
the Bank may finance the purchase of such properties at market rates if the borrower qualifies under the Bank’s standard underwriting guidelines. The Bank had twenty properties held as OREO at December 31, 2011 with a balance of $6.7
million.  Origination of Loans    Commercial and industrial, commercial
real estate, and construction loan applications are obtained through existing customers, solicitation by Bank personnel, referrals from current or past customers, or walk-in customers. Small business loan applications are typically originated by the
Bank’s retail staff, through a dedicated team of business officers, by referrals from other areas of the Bank, referrals from current or past customers, or through walk-in customers. Residential real estate loan applications primarily result
from referrals by real estate brokers, homebuilders, and existing or walk-in customers. Mortgage loan officers provide convenient origination services during banking and nonbanking hours. Other consumer loan applications are directly obtained
through existing or walk-in customers who have been made aware of the Bank’s consumer loan services through advertising, direct mail, and other media.  Loans are approved based upon a hierarchy of authority, predicated upon the size of the loan. Levels within the hierarchy of lending authorities range from individual lenders to the Executive Committee of
the Board of Directors. In accordance with governing banking statutes, the Bank is permitted, with certain exceptions, to make loans and commitments to any one borrower, including related entities, in the aggregate amount of not more than $102.3
million, or 20% of the Bank’s stockholders’ equity, at December 31, 2011, which is the Bank’s legal lending limit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Bank has established a more restrictive limit of not more than $76.8 million,
or 75% of the Bank’s legal lending limit at December 31, 2011, which may only be exceeded with the approval of the Board of Directors. There were no borrowers whose total indebtedness in aggregate exceeded the Bank’s self-imposed
restrictive limit. The Bank’s largest relationship as of December 31, 2011 consisted of thirty-seven loans which aggregate to $46.5 million in exposure. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Sale of Loans    The Bank’s residential
mortgage loans are generally originated in compliance with terms, conditions and documentation which permit the sale of such loans to investors, such as the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”), Federal National Mortgage
Association (“Fannie Mae”), the Government National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”), and other investors in the secondary market. Loan sales in the secondary market provide funds for additional lending and other banking activities.
The Bank sells the servicing on a majority of the sold loans for a servicing released premium, simultaneous with the sale of the loan. For the remainder of the sold loans for which the Company retains the servicing, a mortgage servicing asset is
recognized. As part of its asset/liability management strategy, the Bank may retain a portion of the adjustable rate and fixed rate residential real estate loan originations for its portfolio. During 2011, the Bank originated $334.3 million in
residential real estate loans of which $63.8 million were retained in its portfolio, and comprised primarily of fifteen or twenty year terms.  Loan Portfolio    Below is a discussion of the loan categories in the Company’s portfolio. The following table shows the balance of the loans, the percentage
of the gross loan portfolio, and the percentage of total interest income that the loans generated, by category, for the fiscal years indicated:   
























 
  
As
ofDecember 31, 2011
 
  
% of 
TotalLoans
 
 
% of Total Interest IncomeGenerated For the Years EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
  
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Commercial
  
$
2,630,783
  
  
 
69.3
% 
 
 
64.3
% 
 
 
61.8
% 
 
 
57.3
% 

 Consumer Real Estate
  
 
1,122,264
  
  
 
29.6
% 
 
 
22.7
% 
 
 
22.2
% 
 
 
22.5
% 

 Other Consumer
  
 
41,343
  
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
5.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
3,794,390
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
89.1
% 
 
 
87.4
% 
 
 
84.9
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Commercial Loans    Commercial loans consist of commercial and
industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, commercial construction loans and small business loans. The Bank offers secured and unsecured commercial loans for business purposes. Commercial loans may be structured as term loans or as revolving or
nonrevolving lines of credit including overdraft protection, credit cards, automatic clearinghouse (“ACH”) exposure, owner and nonowner occupied commercial mortgages as well as issuing standby letters of credit. 
The following pie chart shows the diversification of the commercial and industrial portfolio as of December 31, 2011: 
Commercial & Industrial Loan Portfolio Composition  Total Portfolio $575.7 million    


  8 


Table of Contents
Commercial term loans generally have a repayment schedule of five years or less and,
although the Bank occasionally originates some commercial term loans with interest rates which float in accordance with a designated index rate, the majority of commercial term loans have fixed rates of interest and are collateralized by equipment,
machinery or other corporate assets. In addition, the Bank generally obtains personal guarantees from the principals of the borrower for virtually all of its commercial loans. At December 31, 2011, there were $223.5 million of term loans in the
commercial loan portfolio.  Collateral for commercial revolving lines of credit may consist of accounts receivable, inventory
or both, as well as other business assets. Commercial revolving lines of credit generally are reviewed on an annual basis and usually require substantial repayment of principal during the course of a year. The vast majority of these revolving lines
of credit have variable rates of interest. At December 31, 2011, there were $352.2 million of revolving lines of credit in the commercial loan portfolio.  The Bank’s standby letters of credit generally are secured, have terms of not more than one year, and are reviewed for renewal on an annualized basis. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had $15.7
million of commercial and standby letters of credit.  The Bank also provides automobile and, to a lesser extent, boat and
other vehicle floor plan financing. Floor plan loans are secured by the automobiles, boats, or other vehicles, which constitute the dealer’s inventory. Upon the sale of a floor plan unit, the proceeds of the sale are applied to reduce the loan
balance. In the event a unit financed under a floor plan line of credit remains in the dealer’s inventory for an extended period, the Bank requires the dealer to pay-down the outstanding balance associated with such unit. Contractors hired by
the Bank make unannounced periodic inspections of each dealer to review the condition of the underlying collateral and ensure that each unit that the Company has financed is accounted for. At December 31, 2011, there were $57.1 million in floor
plan loans, all of which have variable rates of interest.  Small business lending caters to all of the banking needs of
businesses with commercial credit requirements and revenues typically less than or equal to $250,000 and $2.5 million, respectively, and uses partially automated loan underwriting capabilities. 
The Company makes use of the Bank’s authority as a preferred lender with the U.S. Small Business Administration (“SBA”).
At December 31, 2011, there were $24.3 million of SBA guaranteed loans in the commercial portfolio and $4.5 million of SBA guaranteed loans in the small business loan portfolio. 
The Bank’s commercial real estate portfolio, inclusive of commercial construction, is the Bank’s largest loan type
concentration. This portfolio is well-diversified with loans secured by a variety of property types, such as owner-occupied and nonowner-occupied commercial, retail, office, industrial, warehouse, industrial development bonds, and other special
purpose properties, such as hotels, motels, nursing homes, restaurants, churches, recreational facilities, marinas, and golf courses. Commercial real estate also includes loans secured by certain residential-related property types including
multi-family apartment buildings, residential development tracts and condominiums. 
  9 


Table of Contents
The following pie chart shows the diversification of the commercial real estate portfolio as
of December 31, 2011:  Commercial Real Estate Portfolio by Property Type 
Total Portfolio $1.8 Billion   


 Although terms vary, commercial real estate loans may have maturities of five years or less, or rate
resets every five years for longer duration loans. These loans may have amortization periods of 20 to 25 years, with interest rates that float in accordance with a designated index or that are fixed during the origination process. It is the
Bank’s policy to obtain personal guarantees from the principals of the borrower on commercial real estate loans and to obtain financial statements at least annually from all actively managed commercial and multi-family borrowers. 
Commercial real estate lending entails additional risks as compared to residential real estate lending. Commercial real estate loans
typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Development of commercial real estate projects also may be subject to numerous land use and environmental issues. The payment experience on such loans is
typically dependent on the successful operation of the real estate project, which can be significantly impacted by supply and demand conditions within the markets for commercial, retail, office, industrial/warehouse and multi-family tenancy.
 Additionally, classified in the commercial real estate portfolio are industrial developmental bonds. The Bank owns certain
bonds issued by various state agencies, municipalities and nonprofit organizations that it classifies as loans. This classification is made on the basis that another entity (i.e. the Bank’s customer), not the issuing agency, is responsible for
the payment to the Bank of the principal and interest on the debt. Furthermore, credit underwriting is based solely on the credit of the customer (and guarantors, if any), the banking relationship is with the customer and not the agency, there is no
active secondary market for the bonds, and the bonds are not available for sale, but are intended to be held by the bank until maturity. Therefore, the Bank believes that such bonds are more appropriately characterized as loans, rather than
securities. At December 31, 2011 the balance of industrial developmental bonds was $39.4 million.  Construction loans are
intended to finance the construction of residential and commercial properties, including loans for the acquisition and development of land or rehabilitation of existing properties. Nonpermanent construction loans generally have terms of at least six
months, but not more than two years. They usually do not provide for amortization of the loan balance during the construction term. The majority of the Bank’s commercial construction loans have floating rates of interest based upon the Rockland
base rate or the Prime or London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) which are published daily in the Wall Street Journal. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Construction loans are generally considered to present a higher degree of risk than
permanent real estate loans and may be affected by a variety of factors, such as adverse changes in interest rates and the borrower’s ability to control costs and adhere to time schedules. Other construction-related risks may include market
risk, that is, the risk that “for-sale” or “for-lease” units may or may not be absorbed by the market within a developer’s anticipated time-frame or at a developer’s anticipated price. When the Company enters into a
loan agreement with a borrower on a construction loan, an interest reserve may be included in the amount of the loan commitment to the borrower and it allows the lender to periodically advance loan funds to pay interest charges on the outstanding
balance of the loan. The interest may be capitalized and added to the loan balance. Management actively tracks and monitors these accounts. At December 31, 2011 the amount of interest reserves relating to construction loans was approximately
$1.0 million.  Consumer Real Estate Loans    The Bank’s consumer real estate loans consist of
loans and lines secured by one-to-four family residential properties.  The Bank originates both fixed-rate and adjustable-rate
residential real estate loans. The Bank will lend up to 97% of the lesser of the appraised value of the residential property securing the loan or the purchase price, and generally requires borrowers to obtain private mortgage insurance when the
amount of the loan exceeds 80% of the value of the property. In certain instances for loans that qualify for the Fannie Mae Home Affordable Refinance Initiative and other similar programs, the Bank will lend up to 125% of the appraised value of the
residential property, and are then subsequently sold by the Bank. The rates of these loans are typically competitive with market rates. The Bank’s residential real estate loans are generally originated only under terms, conditions and
documentation which permit sale in the secondary market. The Bank generally requires title insurance protecting the priority of its mortgage lien, as well as fire, extended coverage casualty and flood insurance, when necessary, in order to protect
the properties securing its residential and other real estate loans. Independent appraisers appraise properties securing all of the Bank’s first mortgage real estate loans, as required by regulatory standards. 
The Bank’s residential construction lending is related to single-home residential development within the Bank’s market area and
the portfolio amounted to $9.6 million at December 31, 2011. The Bank typically has focused its construction lending on relatively small projects and has developed and maintains relationships with developers and operative homebuilders within
the Bank’s geographic footprint.  Home equity loans and lines may be made as a fixed rate term loan or under a variable
rate revolving line of credit secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower’s residence or second home. At December 31, 2011, 54.8% of the home equity loans were in first lien position and 45.2% of the loans were in second lien
position. At December 31, 2011, $279.5 million, or 40.2%, of the home equity portfolio were term loans and $416.5 million, or 59.8%, of the home equity portfolio was comprised of revolving lines of credit. The Bank will typically originate home
equity loans and lines in an amount up to 80% of the appraised value or on-line valuation, reduced for any loans outstanding which are secured by such collateral. Home equity loans and lines are underwritten in accordance with the Bank’s loan
policy, which includes a combination of credit score, loan-to-value (“LTV”) ratio, employment history and debt-to-income ratio.  The Bank does supplement performance data with current Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) and LTV estimates. Current FICO data is purchased and appended to all consumer loans on a quarterly basis.
In addition, automated valuation services and broker opinions of value are used to supplement original value data for the residential and home equity portfolios. Use of re-score and re-value data enables the Bank to better understand the current
credit risk associated with these loans, but is not the only factor relied upon in determining a borrower’s credit worthiness. See Note 4, “Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses and Credit Quality” within Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof for more information regarding FICO and LTV estimates. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Other Consumer Loans    The Bank makes loans for a
wide variety of personal needs. Consumer loans primarily consist of installment loans and overdraft protection. The Bank’s consumer loans also include auto, unsecured loans, loans secured by deposit accounts and loans to purchase motorcycles,
recreational vehicles, or boats. The lending policy allows lending up to 80% of the purchase price of vehicles other than automobiles, with terms of up to three years for motorcycles and up to fifteen years for recreational vehicles. 
Investment Activities  The Bank’s securities portfolio consists of U.S. Treasury securities, agency mortgage-backed securities, agency collateralized mortgage obligations, private mortgage-backed securities, state, county,
and municipal securities, single issuer trust preferred securities issued by banks, pooled trust preferred securities issued by banks and insurers, equity securities held for the purpose of funding supplemental executive retirement plan obligations,
and equity securities comprised of an investment in a community development affordable housing mutual fund. The majority of these securities are investment grade debt obligations with average lives of five years or less. U.S. Treasury securities
entail a lesser degree of risk than loans made by the Bank by virtue of the guarantees that back them, require less capital under risk-based capital rules than noninsured or nonguaranteed mortgage loans, are more liquid than individual mortgage
loans, and may be used to collateralize borrowings or other obligations of the Bank. The Bank views its securities portfolio as a source of income and liquidity. Interest and principal payments generated from securities provide a source of liquidity
to fund loans and meet short-term cash needs. The Bank’s securities portfolio is managed in accordance with the Rockland Trust Company Investment Policy adopted by the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial
Officer may make investments with the approval of one additional member of the Asset/Liability Management Committee, subject to limits on the type, size and quality of all investments, which are specified in the Investment Policy. The Bank’s
Asset/Liability Management Committee, or its appointee, is required to evaluate any proposed purchase from the standpoint of overall diversification of the portfolio. At December 31, 2011, securities totaled $518.5 million. Total securities
generated interest and dividends of 10.6%, 12.2%, and 14.6% of total interest income for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company reviews its security portfolio to ensure collection of interest. If any
securities are deferring interest payments, the Company would place these securities on nonaccrual status and reverse accrued but uncollected interest. The Company had $1.3 million of nonaccrual securities at December 31, 2011. 
Sources of Funds  Deposits    At December 31, 2011 total deposits were $3.9 billion. Deposits obtained through the Bank’s branch banking network have traditionally been the principal
source of the Bank’s funds for use in lending and for other general business purposes. The Bank has built a stable base of in-market core deposits from consumers, businesses, and municipalities. The Bank offers a range of demand deposits,
interest checking, money market accounts, savings accounts, and time certificates of deposit. Interest rates on deposits are based on factors that include loan demand, deposit maturities, alternative costs of funds, and interest rates offered by
competing financial institutions in the Bank’s market area. The Bank believes it has been able to attract and maintain satisfactory levels of deposits based on the level of service it provides to its customers, the convenience of its banking
locations, and its interest rates, that are generally competitive with those of competing financial institutions. The Bank also participates in the Certificate of Deposit Registry Service (“CDARS”) program, allowing the Bank to provide
easy access to multi-million dollar Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance protection on Certificate of Deposit investments for consumers, businesses and public entities. As of December 31, 2011, CDARS deposits
totaled $55.1 million. Occasionally and when rates and terms are favorable, and in keeping with the Bank’s interest rate risk and liquidity strategy, the Bank will supplement its customer deposit base with brokered deposits. As of
December 31, 2011 the brokered deposits totaled $23.8 million. Additionally, the Bank has a municipal banking department that focuses on providing core depository services to local municipalities. As of December 31, 2011, municipal
deposits totaled $517.1 million. 
  12 


Table of Contents
The Federal Government’s Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the
“EESA”) introduced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) effective November 2008. One of the TLGP’s main components resulted in an increase of deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor.
The Dodd-Frank Act made the increase in the deposit insurance to $250,000 permanent. At December 31, 2011 there were $1.4 billion in deposits with balances over $250,000. Additionally, during 2010, amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act were enacted, providing unlimited insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. These deposits amounted to $377.9 million at December 31, 2011. This coverage applies to all insured
depository institutions and there are no separate assessments applicable on these covered accounts.  Rockland Trust’s
sixty-seven branch locations are supplemented by the Bank’s internet and mobile banking services as well as automated teller machine (“ATM”) cards and debit cards which may be used to conduct various banking transactions at ATMs
maintained at each of the Bank’s full-service offices and five additional remote ATM locations. The ATM cards and debit cards also allow customers access to a variety of national and international ATM networks. The Bank also has mobile banking
services giving customers the ability to use a variety of mobile devices to check balances, track account activity, search transactions, and set up alerts for text or e-mail messages for changes in their account. They can also transfer funds between
Rockland Trust accounts and identify the nearest branch or ATM directly from their phone. An additional feature to the mobile banking suite is a capability called mDeposit, which allows the Bank’s customers to deposit a check into their account
directly from their mobile device.  Borrowings    As of December 31, 2011, total
borrowings were $537.7 million. Borrowings consist of short-term and long-term obligations and may consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, federal funds purchased, and assets sold under repurchase agreements. 
In 1994, Rockland became a member of the FHLB of Boston. The primary reason for FHLB membership is to gain access to a reliable source of
wholesale funding, particularly term funding as a tool to manage interest rate risk. As a member of the FHLB of Boston, the Bank is required to purchase stock in the FHLB. Accordingly, the Company had invested $35.9 million in FHLB stock as of
December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had $229.7 million outstanding in FHLB borrowings with initial maturities ranging from 3 months to 20 years. In addition, the Bank had $526.6 million of borrowing capacity remaining with
the FHLB at December 31, 2011, inclusive of a $5.0 million line of credit. Also, as of December 31, 2011 the Bank had an available borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston of $618.8 million. 
The Company also has access to other forms of borrowing, such as securities repurchase agreements. In a security repurchase agreement
transaction, the Bank will generally sell a security, agreeing to repurchase either the same or a substantially identical security on a specified later date, at a price greater than the original sales price. The difference in the sale price and
purchase price is the cost of the proceeds recorded as interest expense. The securities underlying the agreements are delivered to counterparties as security for the repurchase obligation. Since the securities are treated as collateral and the
agreement stipulates that the borrower has an obligation to pay back the cash in short order, the transaction does not meet the criteria to be classified as a sale and is therefore considered a secured borrowing transaction for accounting purposes.
Payments on such borrowings are interest only until the scheduled repurchase date. Repurchase agreements represent a nondeposit funding source for the Bank and the Bank is subject to the risk that the purchaser may default at maturity and not return
the securities underlying the agreements. In order to minimize this potential risk, the Bank either deals with established firms when entering into these transactions or with customers whose agreements stipulate that the securities underlying the
agreement are not delivered to the customer and instead are held in segregated safekeeping accounts by the Bank’s safekeeping agents. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had $50.0 million and $166.1 million of repurchase agreements with
investment brokerage firms and customers, respectively. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Also included in borrowings at December 31, 2011 were $61.8 million of junior
subordinated debentures and $30.0 million of subordinated debt. These instruments provide long-term funding as well as regulatory capital benefits. See Note 8, “Borrowings” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in
Item 8 hereof for more information regarding borrowings.  Investment Management 
The Rockland Trust Investment Management Group provides investment management and trust services to individuals, institutions, small
businesses, and charitable institutions throughout eastern Massachusetts, including Cape Cod, and Rhode Island.  Accounts
maintained by the Rockland Trust Investment Management Group consist of managed and nonmanaged accounts. Managed accounts are those for which the Bank is responsible for administration and investment management and/or investment advice, while
nonmanaged accounts are those for which the Bank acts solely as a custodian or directed trustee. The Bank receives fees dependent upon the level and type of service(s) provided. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Investment Management
Group generated gross fee revenues of $12.1 million. Total assets under administration as of December 31, 2011, were $1.7 billion, of which $1.6 billion was related to managed accounts. 
The administration of trust and fiduciary accounts is monitored by the Trust Committee of the Bank’s Board of Directors. The Trust
Committee has delegated administrative responsibilities to three committees, one for investments, one for administration, and one for operations, all of which are comprised of Investment Management Group officers who meet no less than quarterly.
 The Bank has an agreement with LPL Financial (“LPL”) and its affiliates and their insurance subsidiary LPL
Insurance Associates, Inc. to offer the sale of mutual fund shares, unit investment trust shares, general securities, fixed and variable annuities and life insurance. Registered representatives who are both employed by the Bank and licensed and
contracted with LPL are onsite to offer these products to the Bank’s customer base. These same agents are also approved and appointed with the Smith Companies LTD, a division of Capitas Financial, LLC, an insurance general agent, to offer term,
whole and universal life insurance. The Bank also has an agreement with Savings Bank Life Insurance of Massachusetts (“SBLI”) to enable appropriately licensed Bank employees to offer SBLI’s fixed annuities and life insurance to the
Bank’s customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the retail investments and insurance group generated gross fee revenues of $1.4 million.  Regulation  The following discussion sets
forth certain of the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries and provides certain specific information relevant to the Company. To the extent that the following information describes
statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions. A change in applicable statutes, regulations or regulatory policy, may have a material effect on the
Company’s business. The laws and regulations governing the Company and the Bank that are described in the following discussion generally have been promulgated to protect depositors and not for the purpose of protecting stockholders. 
General    The Company is registered as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956
(“BHCA”), as amended, and as such is subject to regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). Rockland Trust is subject to regulation and examination by the Commissioner of Banks of The
Commonwealth of Massachusetts (the “Commissioner”) and the FDIC.  The Bank Holding Company
Act    BHCA prohibits the Company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any bank, or increasing such ownership or

  14 


Table of Contents

control of any bank, without prior approval of the Federal Reserve. The BHCA also prohibits the Company from, with certain exceptions, acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any
company that is not a bank and from engaging in any business other than banking or managing or controlling banks.  Under the
BHCA, the Federal Reserve is authorized to approve the ownership by the Company of shares in any company, the activities of which the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking or to managing or controlling banks as to be a
proper incident thereto. The Federal Reserve has, by regulation, determined that some activities are closely related to banking within the meaning of the BHCA. These activities include, but are not limited to, operating a mortgage company, finance
company, credit card company, factoring company, trust company or savings association; performing data processing operations; providing some securities brokerage services; acting as an investment or financial adviser; acting as an insurance agent
for types of credit-related insurance; engaging in insurance underwriting under limited circumstances; leasing personal property on a full-payout, nonoperating basis; providing tax planning and preparation services; operating a collection agency and
a credit bureau; providing consumer financial counseling and courier services. The Federal Reserve also has determined that other activities, including real estate brokerage and syndication, land development, property management and, except under
limited circumstances, underwriting of life insurance not related to credit transactions, are not closely related to banking and are not a proper incident thereto.  Financial Services Modernization Legislation    The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLB”) repealed provisions of the Glass-Steagall Act which restricted the
affiliation of Federal Reserve member banks with firms “engaged principally” in specified securities activities, and which restricted officer, director, or employee interlocks between a member bank and any company or person “primarily
engaged” in specified securities activities.  In addition, the GLB preempts any state law restricting the establishment
of financial affiliations, primarily related to insurance. The general effect of the law has been to establish a comprehensive framework permitting affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial
service providers, by revising and expanding the BHCA framework to permit a holding company to engage in a full range of financial activities through a new entity known as a “financial holding company.” “Financial activities” is
broadly defined to include not only banking, insurance and securities activities, but also merchant banking and additional activities that the Federal Reserve Board, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, determines to be financial in
nature, incidental to such financial activities or complementary activities that do not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally. 
The GLB also permits national banks to engage in expanded activities through the formation of financial subsidiaries. A national bank may
have a subsidiary engaged in any activity authorized for national banks directly or any financial activity, except for insurance underwriting, insurance investments, real estate investment or development, or merchant banking, which may only be
conducted through a subsidiary of a financial holding company. Financial activities include all activities permitted under the BHCA or permitted by regulation.  Because the GLB permits banks, securities firms and insurance companies to affiliate, the financial services industry has experienced further consolidation which has increased the amount of competition
that the Company faces from larger institutions and other types of companies offering financial products, many of which may have substantially more financial resources than the Company. 
Interstate Banking    The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, as amended by
the Riegle-Neal Amendments Act of 1997 (the “Interstate Banking Act”), permits bank holding companies to acquire banks in states other than their home state without regard to state laws that previously restricted or prohibited such
acquisitions except for any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company, after the proposed acquisition, controls no more
than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of 
  15 


Table of Contents

insured depository institutions in the United States and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. The Interstate Banking Act also
facilitates the operation by state-chartered banks of branch networks across state lines.  Pursuant to Massachusetts law, no
approval to acquire a banking institution, acquire additional shares in a banking institution, acquire substantially all the assets of a banking institution, or merge or consolidate with another bank holding company, may be given if the bank being
acquired has been in existence for a period less than three years or, as a result, the bank holding company would control, in excess of 30%, of the total deposits of all state and federally chartered banks in Massachusetts, unless waived by the
Commissioner. With the prior written approval of the Commissioner, Massachusetts also permits the establishment of de novo branches in Massachusetts to the full extent permitted by the Interstate Banking Act, provided the laws of the home state of
such out-of-state bank expressly authorize, under conditions no more restrictive than those of Massachusetts, Massachusetts’ banks to establish and operate de novo branches in such state. 
Capital Requirements    The Federal Reserve has adopted capital adequacy guidelines pursuant to which it
assesses the adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a bank holding company and in analyzing applications to it under the BHCA. The Federal Reserve’s capital adequacy guidelines which generally require bank holding companies to
maintain total capital equal to 8% of total risk-weighted assets, with at least one-half of that amount consisting of Tier 1, or core capital, and up to one-half of that amount consisting of Tier 2, or supplementary capital. Tier 1 capital for bank
holding companies generally consists of the sum of common stockholders’ equity and perpetual preferred stock (subject in the latter case to limitations on the kind and amount of such stocks which may be included as Tier 1 capital), less net
unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities and on cash flow hedges, post retirement adjustments recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”), and goodwill and other intangible assets required to be deducted
from capital. Tier 2 capital generally consists of perpetual preferred stock which is not eligible to be included as Tier 1 capital; hybrid capital instruments such as perpetual debt and mandatory convertible debt securities, and term subordinated
debt and intermediate-term preferred stock; and, subject to limitations, the allowance for loan losses. Assets are adjusted under the risk-based guidelines to take into account different risk characteristics, with the categories ranging from 0%
(requiring no additional capital), for assets such as cash, up to 1250%, which is a dollar-for-dollar capital charge on certain assets such as securities that are not eligible for the ratings based approach. The majority of assets held by a bank
holding company are risk-weighted at 100%, including certain commercial real estate loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Single family residential first mortgage loans which are not 90 days or more past due or nonperforming and which have
been made in accordance with prudent underwriting standards are assigned a 50% level in the risk-weighting system, as are certain privately-issued mortgage-backed securities representing indirect ownership of such loans and certain multi-family
housing loans. Off-balance sheet items also are adjusted to take into account certain risk characteristics.  In addition to
the risk-based capital requirements, the Federal Reserve requires bank holding companies to maintain a minimum leverage capital ratio of Tier 1 capital to total assets of 3.0%. Total assets for this purpose do not include goodwill and any other
intangible assets or investments that the Federal Reserve determines should be deducted from Tier 1 capital. The Federal Reserve has announced that the 3.0% Tier 1 leverage capital ratio requirement is the minimum for the top-rated bank holding
companies without any supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses or deficiencies or those which are not experiencing or anticipating significant growth. Other bank holding companies are expected to maintain Tier 1 leverage capital ratios of at
least 4.0% to 5.0% or more, depending on their overall condition.  The Company currently is in compliance with the
above-described regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2011, the Company had Tier 1 capital and total capital equal to 10.74% and 12.78% of total risk-weighted adjusted assets, respectively, and Tier 1 leverage capital equal to 8.61%
of total average assets. As of such date, the Bank complied with the applicable bank federal regulatory risked based capital requirements, with Tier 1 capital and total capital equal to 10.13% and 12.17% of total risk-weighted assets, respectively,
and Tier 1 leverage capital equal to 8.12% of total average assets. 
  16 


Table of Contents
The FDIC has promulgated regulations and adopted a statement of policy regarding the capital
adequacy of state-chartered banks, which, like the Bank, are not members of the Federal Reserve System. These requirements are substantially similar to those adopted by the Federal Reserve regarding bank holding companies, as described above. The
FDIC’s capital regulations establish a minimum 3.0% Tier 1 leverage capital to total assets requirement for the most highly-rated state-chartered, nonmember banks, with an additional cushion of at least 100 to 200 basis points for all other
state-chartered, nonmember banks, which effectively will increase the minimum Tier 1 leverage capital ratio for such banks to 4.0% or 5.0% or more.  The Federal Reserve limits the inclusion of restricted core capital elements, which include trust preferred securities, in Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies. The inclusion of these elements is
limited to an amount equal to one-third of the sum of unrestricted core capital less goodwill, net of deferred tax liabilities. Based on these limits, the Company has not had to exclude its trust preferred securities when calculating Tier 1 capital
in 2011. Additionally, the Collin’s Amendment of the Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in 2010, includes proposed regulation regarding the inclusion of hybrid capital instruments, which includes trust preferred securities, as regulatory
capital. The Collin’s Amendment would result in the a three-year phase out of such instruments from inclusion in regulatory capital, however the Company’s capital position would not be impacted, as companies with less than $15 billion in
assets would receive grandfathered capital treatment on its trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010. 
Additionally, the Basel Committee has issued capital standards entitled “Basel III: A global regulatory framework for more resilient
banks and banking systems” (“Basel III”). Although the Company is not currently subject to these requirements, if adopted in their current form by U.S. banking regulators, the BASEL III rules could increase the capital requirements of
the Company. If enacted, the new BASEL III requirements would be phased-in over a timeframe ending in 2022, resulting in an increase in capital requirements along with the restriction of certain items in Tier 1 capital. Restricted items from Tier 1
capital would include trust preferred securities along with certain levels of deferred tax assets and mortgage servicing assets. U.S. Banking regulators have not issued any proposed rulemaking or supervisory guidance on Basel III, which leaves
significant uncertainty surrounding the future of Basel III and its effect on the Company.  Each federal banking agency has
broad powers to implement a system of prompt corrective action to resolve problems of financial institutions that it regulates which are not adequately capitalized. The minimum levels are defined as follows: 
 
























 
 
Bank
 
Holding Company

 Category
 

Total    Risk-Based    Ratio
 
 
 
Tier 1    Risk-Based    Ratio
 
 
 
Tier
1LeverageCapitalRatio
 
TotalRisk-BasedRatio
 
 
 
Tier 1    Risk-Based    Ratio
 
 
 
Tier 1LeverageCapitalRatio

 Well Capitalized
 
> 10%
 
and
 
> 6%
 
and
 
> 5%
 
n/a
 

 
n/a
 

 
n/a

 Adequately Capitalized
 
> 8%
 
and
 
> 4%
 
and
 
> 4%*
 
> 8%
 
and
 
> 4%
 
and
 
> 4%

 Undercapitalized
 
< 8% 
 
or
 
< 4%
 
or
 
< 4%*
 
< 8%
 
or
 
< 4%
 
or
 
< 4%

 Significantly Undercapitalized
 
< 6%
 
or
 
< 3%
 
or
 
< 3%
 
n/a
 

 
n/a
 

 
n/a
  


*
3% for institutions with a rating of one under the regulatory CAMELS or related rating system that are not anticipating or experiencing significant growth and have
well-diversified risk.  A bank is considered critically undercapitalized if it has a ratio of tangible equity to
total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s tangible equity ratio was 6.80%. As of December 31, 2011, the Bank was deemed a “well-capitalized institution” as defined by federal
banking agencies.  Commitments to Affiliated Institutions    Under Federal Reserve policy, the
Company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to the Bank and to commit resources to support the Bank. This support may be required at times when the Company may not be able to provide such support. Similarly, under the
cross-
  17 


Table of Contents

guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC — either as a result of default of a banking or thrift subsidiary of a
bank/financial holding company such as the Company or related to FDIC assistance provided to a subsidiary in danger of default — the other banking subsidiaries of such bank/financial holding company may be assessed for the FDIC’s loss,
subject to certain exceptions.  Limitations on Acquisitions of Common Stock    The federal Change
in Bank Control Act (“CBCA”) prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring control of a bank holding company or bank unless the appropriate federal bank regulator has been given 60 days prior written notice of such proposed
acquisition and within that time period such regulator has not issued a notice disapproving the proposed acquisition or extending for up to another 30 days the period during which such a disapproval may be issued. The acquisition of 25% or more of
any class of voting securities constitutes the acquisition of control under the CBCA. In addition, under a rebuttal presumption established under the CBCA regulations, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding
company or a FDIC insured bank, with a class of securities registered under or subject to the requirements of Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute the
acquisition of control.  Any company would be required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve under the BHCA before
acquiring 25% (5% in the case of an acquirer that is a bank holding company) or more of the outstanding common stock of, or such lesser number of shares as constitute control over the company. Such approval would be contingent upon, among other
things, the acquirer registering as a bank holding company, divesting all impermissible holdings and ceasing any activities not permissible for a bank holding company. The Company does not own more than 5% voting stock in any banking institution
other than the Bank.  FDIC Deposit Insurance    The Bank’s deposit accounts are insured to the
maximum extent permitted by law by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) which is administered by the FDIC. The FDIC offers insurance coverage on deposits up to the federally insured limit of $250,000. Additionally, during 2010, amendments to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act were enacted, providing unlimited insurance coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts through December 31, 2012. This coverage applies to all insured depository institutions and there is no separate
assessments applicable on these covered accounts.  The Bank is currently assessed a deposit insurance charge from the FDIC
based upon the Bank’s overall assessment base multiplied by an assessment rate, determined from five established risk categories. Effective April 1, 2011, the Bank’s assessment base is defined as average consolidated total assets
minus average tangible equity, adjusted for the impact of the risk category factors. Prior to April 1, the assessment base was defined as total deposit liabilities (less allowable exclusions). 
During 2009, the FDIC voted to amend its assessment regulations to require all institutions to prepay the estimated risk-based
assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 (which would have been due in March 2010) and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. As a result, the Bank was required to pay $20.4 million on December 30, 2009. The remaining prepaid balance at
December 31, 2011 was $9.9 million.  Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”)    Pursuant
to the CRA and similar provisions of Massachusetts law, regulatory authorities review the performance of the Company and the Bank in meeting the credit needs of the communities served by the Bank. The applicable regulatory authorities consider
compliance with this law in connection with applications for, among other things, approval of new branches, branch relocations, engaging in certain additional financial activities under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (“GLB”), and
acquisitions of banks and bank holding companies. The FDIC and the Massachusetts Division of Banks has assigned the Bank a CRA rating of outstanding as of the latest examination. 
Bank Secrecy Act    The Bank Secrecy Act requires financial institutions to keep records and file reports that
are determined to have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax and regulatory matters, and to implement counter-money laundering programs and compliance procedures. 
  18 


Table of Contents
USA Patriot Act of 2001    The Patriot Act strengthens U.S. law
enforcement’s and the intelligence communities’ abilities to work cohesively to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The impact of the Patriot Act on financial institutions of all kinds is significant and wide ranging. The Patriot Act
contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and imposes various regulations, including standards for verifying client identification at account opening, and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions,
regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002    The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) implemented a broad range of
corporate governance and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for accounting and auditing improprieties at public companies, and to protect investors by improving the accuracy and reliability of
disclosures under federal securities laws. Among other things, SOX and/or its implementing regulations have established new membership requirements and additional responsibilities for the Company’s audit committee, imposed restrictions on the
relationship between the Company and its external auditors (including restrictions on the types of non-audit services the external auditors may provide), imposed additional responsibilities for the external financial statements on the Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for corporate insiders, required management to evaluate disclosure controls and procedures, as well as internal control over financial reporting, and required the
auditors to issue a report on the internal control over financial reporting.  Regulation
W    Transactions between a bank and its “affiliates” are quantitatively and qualitatively restricted under the Federal Reserve Act. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act applies Sections 23A and 23B to insured
nonmember banks in the same manner and to the same extent as if they were members of the Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve Board has also issued Regulation W, which codifies prior regulations under Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal
Reserve Act and interpretative guidance with respect to affiliate transactions. Regulation W incorporates the exemption from the affiliate transaction rules, but expands the exemption to cover the purchase of any type of loan or extension of credit
from an affiliate. Affiliates of a bank include, among other entities, the bank’s holding company and companies that are under common control with the bank. The Company is considered to be an affiliate of the Bank. In general, subject to
certain specified exemptions, a bank and its subsidiaries are limited in their ability to engage in “covered transactions” with affiliates:   


 
•
 
 to an amount equal to 10% of the bank’s capital and surplus, in the case of covered transactions with any one affiliate; and
  


 
•
 
 to an amount equal to 20% of the bank’s capital and surplus, in the case of covered transactions with all affiliates.
 In addition, a bank and its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions and other specified
transactions only on terms and under circumstances that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the bank or its subsidiary, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. A “covered
transaction” includes:   


 
•
 
 a loan or extension of credit to an affiliate;   


 
•
 
 a purchase of, or an investment in, securities issued by an affiliate; 
 


 
•
 
 a purchase of assets from an affiliate, with some exceptions; 
 


 
•
 
 the acceptance of securities issued by an affiliate as collateral for a loan or extension of credit to any party; and 
 


 
•
 
 the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. 
  19 


Table of Contents
In addition, under Regulation W: 
 


 
•
 
 a bank and its subsidiaries may not purchase a low-quality asset from an affiliate; 
 


 
•
 
 covered transactions and other specified transactions between a bank or its subsidiaries and an affiliate must be on terms and conditions that are
consistent with safe and sound banking practices; and   


 
•
 
 with some exceptions, each loan or extension of credit by a bank to an affiliate must be secured by collateral with a market value ranging from 100% to
130%, depending on the type of collateral, or the amount of the loan or extension of credit.  Regulation W
generally excludes all nonbank and nonsavings association subsidiaries of banks from treatment as affiliates, except to the extent that the Federal Reserve Board decides to treat these subsidiaries as affiliates. 
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008    In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking and
financial markets, in October 2008 the “EESA” was signed into law. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury (the “Treasury”) had the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed
securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U. S. financial markets.  The Treasury was authorized to purchase equity stakes in U.S. financial institutions. Under this program, known as the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”), from the $700 billion authorized by the
EESA, the Treasury made $250 billion of capital available to U.S. financial institutions through the purchase of preferred stock or subordinated debentures by the Treasury. In conjunction with the purchase of preferred stock from publicly-held
financial institutions, the Treasury also received warrants to purchase common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the total amount of the preferred investment. Participating financial institutions were required to adopt the
Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under the CPP and were restricted from increasing dividends to common shareholders or repurchasing common
stock for three years without the consent of the Treasury.  The Company had initially elected to participate in the CPP in
January of 2009 and subsequently returned the funds in April of 2009. For further details, see Note 11 “Capital Purchase Program” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. 
New Markets Tax Credit Program    The New Markets Tax Credit Program was created in December 2000 under
federal law to provide federal tax incentives to induce private-sector, market-driven investment in businesses and real estate development projects located in low-income urban and rural communities across the nation. The New Markets Tax Credit
Program is part of the United States Department of the Treasury Community Development Financial Institutions Fund. The New Markets Tax Credit Program enables investors to acquire federal tax credits by making equity investments for a period of at
least seven years in qualified community development entities which have been awarded tax credit allocation authority by, and entered into an Allocation Agreement with, the United States Treasury. Community development entities must use equity
investments to make loans to, or other investments in, qualified businesses and individuals in low-income communities in accordance with New Markets Tax Credit Program criteria. Investors receive an overall tax credit equal to 39% of their total
equity investment, credited at a rate of 5% in each of the first 3 years and 6% in each of the final 4 years. More information on the New Markets Tax Credit Program may be obtained at www.cdfifund.gov. (The Company has included the web
address only as inactive textual references and does not intend it to be an active link to the New Markets Tax Credit Programs website.) For further details about the Bank’s New Markets Tax Credit Program, see the paragraph entitled
“Income Taxes” included in Item 7 below.  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act    During 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). This law will 
  20 


Table of Contents

significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The
Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt and implement a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the
implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.  Effective July 21, 2011, the Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Since the
regulations became effective, the Company has not seen an increased demand for interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on future competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on the Company’s
interest expense.  The Dodd-Frank Act also broadened the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments.
Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and
credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and noninterest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Company has begun to see a reduction in the amount of the
FDIC assessment as a result of these changes in 2011.  The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give
stockholders a nonbinding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The Company’s Board has decided to include a proxy vote on executive compensation every year. The legislation also directed the
Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. 
The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the scope of derivative instruments and requires clearing and exchange trading of certain instruments.
Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Act includes capital margin, reporting and registration requirements for derivative participants. A number of rules were passed in January 2012 and additional regulations from both the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the SEC are being drafted. An extension for the rule-making has been granted until July 16, 2012. The Company does not believe the regulations approved to date will have a significant impact on its current derivative positions. 
The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection
laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or
abusive” acts and practices. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with consumer laws by their primary bank regulators. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”) to propose regulations to establish standards for debit card
interchange transaction fees. Interchange fees are established by payment card networks and ultimately paid by merchants to debit card issuers for each electronic debit transaction. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, these fees must be
reasonable and proportional to the issuer’s cost for processing the transaction. On June 29, 2011, the FRB approved a final debit card interchange regulation which caps an issuer’s base fee at $0.21 per transaction plus an additional
fee computed at five basis-points of the transaction value. If an issuer complies with certain fraud-prevention policies, the issuer can charge an additional $0.01 per transaction to cover the costs of the fraud-prevention program. These standards
apply to issuers that, together with their affiliates, have assets of $10 billion or more. The effective date of the pricing restrictions was October 1, 2011. The Company’s assets are under $10 billion and therefore it is not
directly impacted by these provisions. 
  21 


Table of Contents
The Company is actively reviewing the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and assessing its
probable impact on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. However, the ultimate effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on the financial services industry in general, and on the Company in particular, is uncertain at this time.
 Regulation E    Federal Reserve Board Regulation E governs electronic fund transfers and provides
a basic framework that establishes the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in electronic fund transfer systems such as automated teller machine transfers, telephone bill-payment services, point-of-sale terminal transfers in
stores, and preauthorized transfers from or to a consumer’s account (such as direct deposit and social security payments). The term “electronic fund transfer” generally refers to a transaction initiated through an electronic terminal,
telephone, computer, or magnetic tape that instructs a financial institution either to credit or to debit a consumer’s asset account. Regulation E describes the disclosures which financial institutions are required to make to consumers who
engage in electronic fund transfers and generally limits a consumer’s liability for unauthorized electronic fund transfers, such as those arising from loss or theft of an access device, to $50 for consumers who notify their bank in a timely
manner.  Employees    As of December 31, 2011, the Bank had 909 full time equivalent
employees. None of the Company’s employees are represented by a labor union and management considers relations with its employees to be good.  Miscellaneous    The Bank is subject to certain restrictions on loans to the Company, investments in the stock or securities thereof, the taking of such stock or securities as
collateral for loans to any borrower, and the issuance of a guarantee or letter of credit on behalf of the Company. The Bank also is subject to certain restrictions on most types of transactions with the Company, requiring that the terms of such
transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of similar transactions with nonaffiliated firms. In addition, under state law, there are certain conditions for and restrictions on the distribution of dividends to the Company by the Bank.
 Statistical Disclosure by Bank Holding Companies 
For information regarding borrowings, see Note 8, “Borrowings” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included
in Item 8 hereof, which includes information regarding short-term borrowings.  For information regarding the
Company’s business and operations, see Selected Financial Data in Item 6 hereof, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 hereof and the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof and incorporated by reference herein.  Securities and Exchange
Commission Availability of Filings on Company Website  Under Section 13 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 the Company must file periodic and current reports with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Public Reference Room at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company electronically files the following reports with the SEC: Form 10-K (Annual Report), Form 10-Q (Quarterly Report), Form 11-K
(Annual Report for Employees’ Savings, Profit Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan), Form 8-K (Report of Unscheduled Material Events), Forms S-4, S-3 and 8-A (Registration Statements), and Form DEF 14A (Proxy Statement). The Company may file
additional forms. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, at www.sec.gov, in which all forms filed
electronically may be accessed. Additionally, the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes to, the SEC and additional shareholder information are available free of charge on the Company’s website:
www.RocklandTrust.com (within the investor relations tab). Information contained on the Company’s website 
  22 


Table of Contents

and the SEC website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. (The Company has included the web address and the SEC website address only as inactive textual references and does not
intend them to be active links to our website or the SEC website.) The Company’s Code of Ethics and other Corporate Governance documents are also available on the Company’s website in the Investor Relations section of the website.
 Item 1A.    Risk Factors 
Changes in interest rates could adversely impact the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations.    The Company’s ability to make a profit, like that of most financial institutions, substantially depends upon its net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest
earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. However, certain assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in market interest
rates. Further, interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate prior to changes in broader market interest rates, while rates on other types of assets may lag behind. Additionally, some assets such as adjustable-rate mortgages
have features, such as rate caps and floors, which restrict changes in their interest rates.  Factors such as inflation,
recession, unemployment, money supply, global disorder, instability in domestic and foreign financial markets, and other factors beyond the Company’s control, may affect interest rates. Changes in market interest rates will also affect the
level of voluntary prepayments on loans and the receipt of payments on mortgage-backed securities, resulting in the receipt of proceeds that may have to be reinvested at a lower rate than the loan or mortgage-backed security being prepaid.
 The state of the financial and credit markets, and potential sovereign debt defaults may severely impact the global and
domestic economies and may lead to a significantly tighter environment in terms of liquidity and availability of credit. Economic growth may slow down and the national economy may experience additional recession periods. Market disruption,
government and central bank policy actions intended to counteract the effects of recession, changes in investor expectations regarding compensation for market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and changing economic data could continue to have
dramatic effects on both the volatility of and the magnitude of the directional movements of interest rates. Although the Company pursues an asset/liability management strategy designed to control its risk from changes in interest rates, changes in
market interest rates can have a material adverse effect on the Company’s profitability.  A further deterioration of
the credit rating for U.S. long-term sovereign debt could adversely impact the Company.    On August 5, 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the U.S. long-term sovereign debt from AAA, the highest rating, to AA+,
the second highest rating. This downgrade does not directly impact the immediate current financial position or outlook for the Company, but a further downgrade could result in a re-evaluation of the ‘risk-free’ rate used in many accounting
models, other-than-temporary-impairment of securities and/or impairment of goodwill and other intangibles.  If the Company
has higher than anticipated loan losses than it has modeled, its earnings could materially decrease.    The Company’s loan customers may not repay loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the payment
of loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. The Company may therefore experience significant credit losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and capital ratios. The Company makes various assumptions and
judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for
loan losses, the Company relies on its experience and its evaluation of economic conditions. If its assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in its loan portfolio and an
adjustment may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Consequently, a problem with one or more loans could require the Company to significantly increase the level of its provision for
loan losses. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s 
  23 


Table of Contents

allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease the
Company’s net income.  A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in the Bank’s geographic
footprint and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact its operations.    Substantially all of the loans the Company originates are secured by properties located in, or are made to businesses which operate in
Massachusetts, and to a lesser extent Rhode Island. Because of the current concentration of the Company’s loan origination activities in its geographic footprint, in the event of continued adverse economic conditions, including, but not limited
to, increased unemployment, continued downward pressure on the value of residential and commercial real estate, political or business developments, that may affect the ability of property owners and businesses to make payments of principal and
interest on the underlying loans in the Bank’s geographic footprint. The Company would likely experience higher rates of loss and delinquency on its loans than if its loans were more geographically diversified, which could have an adverse
effect on its results of operations or financial condition.  The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and may
be adversely impacted by changes in law, regulations, and accounting policies.    The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See “Regulation” in Item 1 hereof, Business.
Any change in the laws or regulations and failure by the Company to comply with applicable law and regulation, or a change in regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks,
the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress, or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and
cash flows. Changes in accounting policies, practices and standards, as may be adopted by the regulatory agencies as well as the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and other accounting standard
setters, could also negatively impact the Company’s financial results.  The Dodd-Frank Act will have a significant
impact on the regulatory structure of the financial markets and will impose additional costs on the Company.    It also could adversely affect certain of the Company’s business operations and competitive position. The
Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, establishes a new Financial Stability Oversight Council to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions, restricts proprietary trading and private fund investment activities by banking institutions,
creates a new framework for the regulation of derivatives and revises the FDIC’s assessment base for deposit insurance. Provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act may also restrict the flexibility of financial institutions to compensate their employees.
In addition, provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act may require changes to existing capital rules or affect their interpretations by institutions or regulators, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business operations, capital
structure, capital ratios or financial performance. The final effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company’s business will depend largely on the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act by regulatory bodies and the exercise of discretion by these
regulatory bodies.  The Company has strong competition within its market area which may limit the Company’s growth and
profitability.    The Company faces significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. See “Market Area and Competition” in Item 1 hereof, Business. Commercial banks,
credit unions, savings banks, savings and loan associations operating in the Company’s primary market area have historically provided most of its competition for deposits. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans come from
other commercial banks, thrift institutions, credit unions, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies.  The success of the Company is dependent on hiring and retaining certain key personnel.    The Company’s performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of
highly skilled individuals. The Company relies on key personnel to manage and operate its business, including major revenue generating functions such as loan and deposit generation. The loss of key staff may adversely affect the Company’s
ability to maintain and manage these functions effectively, which could negatively affect the Company’s revenues. In 
  24 


Table of Contents

addition, loss of key personnel could result in increased recruiting and hiring expenses, which could cause a decrease in the Company’s net income. The Company’s continued ability to
compete effectively depends on its ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate its existing employees.  The
Company’s business strategy of growth in part through acquisitions could have an impact on its earnings and results of operations that may negatively impact the value of the Company’s stock.    In recent years, the
Company has focused, in part, on growth through acquisitions. From time to time in the ordinary course of business, the Company engages in preliminary discussions with potential acquisition targets. The consummation of any future acquisitions may
dilute stockholder value. Although the Company’s business strategy emphasizes organic expansion combined with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that, in the future, the Company will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates,
complete acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired operations into our existing operations or expand into new markets. There can be no assurance that acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon the Company’s operating results while
the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into the Company’s operations. In addition, once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of profitability comparable to those achieved by the Company’s existing
operations, or otherwise perform as expected. Further, transaction-related expenses may adversely affect the Company’s earnings. These adverse effects on the Company’s earnings and results of operations may have a negative impact on the
value of the Company’s stock.  Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the industry in which the Company
operates.    Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past several years, with falling real estate values and increasing foreclosures, unemployment, and under-employment have negatively impacted the credit performance
of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities
but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases to fail. Reflecting
concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market
turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic
pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of
these difficult market conditions on the Company and others in the financial services industry. In particular, the Company may face the following risks in connection with these events: 
 


 
•
 
 The Company may expect to face increased regulation of its industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase its costs and limit its ability to
pursue business opportunities.   


 
•
 
 Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in loan delinquencies and default rates, which the Company expects
could impact its loan charge-offs and provision for loan losses.   


 
•
 
 Deterioration or defaults made by issuers of the underlying collateral of the Company’s investment securities may cause additional credit related
other-than-temporary impairment charges to the Company’s income statement.   


 
•
 
 The Company’s ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all
could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. 
 


 
•
 
 Competition in the industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current
market conditions. 
  25 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments could significantly deplete the insurance fund of the
FDIC and reduce the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.   


 
•
 
 It may become necessary or advisable for the Company, due to changes in regulatory requirements, change in market conditions, or for other reasons, to
hold more capital or to alter the forms of capital it currently maintains.  The Company’s securities
portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations.    Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, the Company is required to review the
Company’s investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and
trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, the Company’s ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing
factors may require the Company to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit related portion of the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to the Company’s earnings. Recent market volatility has
made it extremely difficult to value certain of the Company’s securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these
factors could require the Company to recognize further impairments in the value of the Company’s securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in future periods. 
Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our
results of operations.    Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. The Bank has recognized goodwill as an asset on the balance sheet in connection with several
recent acquisitions (see Note 6 “Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof). When an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life,
it is not amortized, and instead is evaluated for impairment. Goodwill is subject to impairment tests annually, or more frequently if necessary, and is evaluated using a two step impairment approach. A significant and sustained decline in the
Company’s stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in the Company’s expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of
goodwill or other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of the goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then the Company would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to
the results of operations and financial position.  Deterioration in the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of
Boston’s capital might restrict the FHLB of Boston’s ability to meet the funding needs of its members, cause a suspension of its dividend, and cause its stock to be determined to be impaired.    Significant
components of the Bank’s liquidity needs are met through its access to funding pursuant to its membership in the FHLB of Boston. The FHLB is a cooperative that provides services to its member banking institutions. The primary reason for joining
the FHLB is to obtain funding from the FHLB of Boston. The purchase of stock in the FHLB is a requirement for a member to gain access to funding. Any deterioration in the FHLB’s performance may affect the Company’s access to funding and/or
require the Company to deem the required investment in FHLB stock to be impaired.  Reductions in the value of the
Company’s deferred tax assets could affect earnings adversely.    A deferred tax asset is created by the tax effect of the differences between an asset’s book value and its tax basis. The Company assesses the
deferred tax assets periodically to determine the likelihood of the Company’s ability to realize their benefits. These assessments consider the performance of the associated business and its ability to generate future taxable income. If the
information available to the Company at the time of assessment indicates there is a greater than 50% chance that the Company will not realize the deferred tax asset benefit, the Company is required to establish a valuation allowance for it and
reduce its future tax assets to the amount the Company 
  26 


Table of Contents

believes could be realized in future tax returns. Recording such a valuation allowance could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or financial position. Additionally the
deferred tax asset is measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Accordingly a change in enacted tax rates may result in a
decrease/increase to the Company’s deferred tax asset.  The Company will need to keep pace with evolving information
technology and guard against and react to increased cyber security risks and electronic fraud.    The potential need to adapt to changes in information technology could adversely impact the Company’s operations and
require increased capital spending. The risk of electronic fraudulent activity within the financial services industry, especially in the commercial banking sector due to cyber criminals targeting bank accounts and other customer information, could
adversely impact the Company’s operations, damage its reputation and require increased capital spending.  The
Company’s business depends on maintaining the trust and confidence of customers and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to its business.    The Company’s ability to originate and
maintain accounts is highly dependent upon the perceptions of consumer and commercial borrowers and deposit holders and other external perceptions of the Company’s business practices or financial health. The Company’s reputation is
vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage the Company’s reputation, even
if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. Adverse perceptions regarding the Company’s reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing
them and to decreases in the levels of deposits that consumer and commercial customers and potential customers choose to maintain with the Company, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial
results.  If the Company’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate the Company’s
risks, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.    The Company’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and appropriately balance risk and return. The Company has
established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor and report the types of risk to which its subject, including credit risk, operations risk, compliance risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk.
The Company seeks to monitor and control its risk exposure through a framework of policies, procedures and reporting requirements. Management of the Company’s risks in some cases depends upon the use of analytical and/or forecasting models. If
the models used to mitigate these risks are inadequate, the Company may incur losses. In addition, there may be risks that exist, or that develop in the future, that the Company has not appropriately anticipated, identified or mitigated. If the
Company’s risk management framework does not effectively identify or mitigate its risks, the Company could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments 
None 
Item 2.    Properties 
At December 31, 2011, the Bank conducted its business from its main office located at 288 Union Street, Rockland, Massachusetts and
sixty-six additional banking offices located within Barnstable, Bristol, Middlesex, Norfolk, Plymouth and Worcester counties in Eastern Massachusetts. In addition to its main office, the Bank leased fifty of its branches and owned the remaining
sixteen branches. Also, the Bank had five remote ATM locations all of which were leased.  The Bank’s executive
administration offices are located in Hanover, Massachusetts while the remaining administrative and operations locations are housed in several different campuses. Additionally, there are a number of sales offices not associated with a branch
location throughout the Bank’s footprint. 
  27 


Table of Contents
For additional information regarding the Bank’s premises and equipment and lease
obligations, see Notes 5, “Bank Premises and Equipment” and 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” respectively, within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof.
 Item 3.    Legal Proceedings
 At December 31, 2011, Rockland Trust was involved in pending lawsuits that arose in the ordinary course of business.
Management has reviewed these pending lawsuits with legal counsel and has taken into consideration the view of counsel as to their outcome. In the opinion of management, the final disposition of pending lawsuits is not expected to have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 
Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not applicable. 
  28 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.    Market
for Independent Bank Corp.’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 (a.) Independent Bank Corp.’s common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol
INDB. The Company declared cash dividends of $0.76 and $0.72 per share in 2011 and in 2010. The ratio of dividends paid to earnings in 2011 and 2010 was 35.9% and 37.9%, respectively. 
Payment of dividends by the Company on its common stock is subject to various regulatory restrictions and guidelines. Since substantially
all of the funds available for the payment of dividends are derived from the Bank, future dividends will depend on the earnings of the Bank, its financial condition, its need for funds, applicable governmental policies and regulations, and other
such matters as the Board of Directors deem appropriate. Management believes that the Bank will continue to generate adequate earnings to continue to pay common dividends on a quarterly basis. 
The following schedule summarizes the closing price range of common stock and the cash dividends paid for the fiscal years 2011 and 2010:
  
















 2011
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Dividend
 

 4th Quarter
  
$
27.95
  
  
$
20.42
  
  
$
0.19
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
27.91
  
  
 
20.86
  
  
 
0.19
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
29.98
  
  
 
25.95
  
  
 
0.19
  

 1st Quarter
  
 
28.83
  
  
 
25.48
  
  
 
0.19
  






 2010
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
Dividend
 

 4th Quarter
  
$
28.09
  
  
$
22.35
  
  
$
0.18
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
25.55
  
  
 
20.91
  
  
 
0.18
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
28.09
  
  
 
23.21
  
  
 
0.18
  

 1st Quarter
  
 
26.76
  
  
 
21.00
  
  
 
0.18
  
 As of December 31, 2011 there were 21,499,768 shares of common stock outstanding which were held by
approximately 2,645 holders of record. The number of record-holders may not reflect the number of persons or entities holding stock in nominee name through banks, brokerage firms, and other nominees. The closing price of the Company’s stock on
December 31, 2011 was $27.29.  The information required by S-K Item 201(d) is incorporated by reference from
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters hereof. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Comparative Stock Performance Graph 
The stock performance graph below and associated table compare the cumulative total shareholder return of the Company’s common stock
from December 31, 2006 to December 31, 2011 with the cumulative total return of the NASDAQ Composite Index (U.S. Companies) and the SNL Bank NASDAQ Index. The lines in the graph and the numbers in the table below represent yearly index
levels derived from compounded daily returns that include reinvestment or retention of all dividends. If the yearly interval, based on the last day of a fiscal year, was not a trading day, the preceding trading day was used. The index value for all
of the series was set to 100.00 on December 31, 2006 (which assumes that $100.00 was invested in each of the series on December 31, 2006).  The following information in this Item 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or
14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing. The stock price performance shown on the stock performance graph and associated table below is not necessarily indicative of future price
performance. Information used on the graph and table was obtained from a third party provider, a source believed to be reliable, but the Company is not responsible for any errors or omissions in such information. 
Total Return Performance   


  




























 
  
Period Ending
 

 Index
  
12/31/06
 
  
12/31/07
 
  
12/31/08
 
  
12/31/09
 
  
12/31/10
 
  
12/31/11
 

 Independent Bank Corp.
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
77.26
  
  
 
76.27
  
  
 
63.13
  
  
 
84.27
  
  
 
87.65
  

 NASDAQ Composite
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
110.66
  
  
 
66.42
  
  
 
96.54
  
  
 
114.06
  
  
 
113.16
  

 SNL Bank NASDAQ
  
 
100.00
  
  
 
78.51
  
  
 
57.02
  
  
 
46.25
  
  
 
54.57
  
  
 
48.42
  
 Source : SNL Financial LC, Charlottesville, VA 
(b.) Not applicable 
  30 


Table of Contents
(c.) The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s repurchases of
its common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2011:   




















 
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 

 Period
 
Total Number ofSharesPurchased(1)
 
 
Average PricePaid Per Share
 
 
Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plan
orProgram(2)
 
 
Maximum Number of SharesThat May Yet Be PurchasedUnder the Plan or
Program
 

 October 1 to October 31, 2011
 
 
8,273
  
 
$
24.92
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 November 1 to November 30, 2011
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 December 1 to December 31, 2011
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
 
8,273
  
 



 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Shares repurchased relate to the surrendering of mature shares for the exercise and/or vesting of stock compensation grants. 
 


(2)
The Company does not currently have a stock repurchase program or plan in place. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Item 6.    Selected Financial
Data  The selected consolidated financial and other data of the Company set forth below does not
purport to be complete and should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the more detailed information, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, appearing elsewhere herein. 
 
























 
  
As of and For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 

 FINANCIAL CONDITION DATA:
  



 



 



 



 




 Securities available for sale
  
$
305,332
  
 
$
377,457
  
 
$
508,650
  
 
$
575,688
  
 
$
427,998
  

 Securities held to maturity
  
 
204,956
  
 
 
202,732
  
 
 
93,410
  
 
 
32,789
  
 
 
45,265
  

 Loans
  
 
3,794,390
  
 
 
3,555,679
  
 
 
3,395,515
  
 
 
2,652,536
  
 
 
2,031,824
  

 Allowance for loan losses
  
 
48,260
  
 
 
46,255
  
 
 
42,361
  
 
 
37,049
  
 
 
26,831
  

 Goodwill and core deposit intangibles
  
 
140,722
  
 
 
141,956
  
 
 
143,730
  
 
 
125,710
  
 
 
60,411
  

 Total assets
  
 
4,970,240
  
 
 
4,695,738
  
 
 
4,482,021
  
 
 
3,628,469
  
 
 
2,768,413
  

 Total deposits
  
 
3,876,829
  
 
 
3,627,783
  
 
 
3,375,294
  
 
 
2,579,080
  
 
 
2,026,610
  

 Total borrowings
  
 
537,686
  
 
 
565,434
  
 
 
647,397
  
 
 
695,317
  
 
 
504,344
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
469,057
  
 
 
436,472
  
 
 
412,649
  
 
 
305,274
  
 
 
220,465
  

 Nonperforming loans
  
 
28,953
  
 
 
23,108
  
 
 
36,183
  
 
 
26,933
  
 
 
7,644
  

 Nonperforming assets
  
 
37,149
  
 
 
31,493
  
 
 
41,245
  
 
 
29,883
  
 
 
8,325
  

 OPERATING DATA:
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest income
  
$
195,751
  
 
$
202,724
  
 
$
202,689
  
 
$
175,440
  
 
$
158,524
  

 Interest expense
  
 
28,672
  
 
 
38,763
  
 
 
51,995
  
 
 
58,926
  
 
 
63,555
  

 Net interest income
  
 
167,079
  
 
 
163,961
  
 
 
150,694
  
 
 
116,514
  
 
 
94,969
  

 Provision for loan losses
  
 
11,482
  
 
 
18,655
  
 
 
17,335
  
 
 
10,888
  
 
 
3,130
  

 Noninterest income
  
 
52,700
  
 
 
46,906
  
 
 
38,192
  
 
 
29,032
  
 
 
33,265
  

 Noninterest expenses
  
 
145,713
  
 
 
139,745
  
 
 
141,815
  
 
 
104,143
  
 
 
87,932
  

 Net income
  
 
45,436
  
 
 
40,240
  
 
 
22,989
  
 
 
23,964
  
 
 
28,381
  

 Preferred stock dividend
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,698
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Net income available to the common shareholder
  
 
45,436
  
 
 
40,240
  
 
 
17,291
  
 
 
23,964
  
 
 
28,381
  

 PER SHARE DATA:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net income — basic
  
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
0.88
  
 
$
1.53
  
 
$
2.02
  

 Net income — diluted
  
 
2.12
  
 
 
1.90
  
 
 
0.88
  
 
 
1.52
  
 
 
2.00
  

 Cash dividends declared
  
 
0.76
  
 
 
0.72
  
 
 
0.72
  
 
 
0.72
  
 
 
0.68
  

 Book value
  
 
21.82
  
 
 
20.57
  
 
 
19.58
  
 
 
18.75
  
 
 
16.04
  

 OPERATING RATIOS:
  



 



 



 



 




 Return on average assets
  
 
0.96
% 
 
 
0.88
% 
 
 
0.40
% 
 
 
0.73
% 
 
 
1.05
% 

 Return on average common equity
  
 
9.93
% 
 
 
9.46
% 
 
 
4.29
% 
 
 
8.20
% 
 
 
12.93
% 

 Net interest margin (on a fully tax equivalent basis)
  
 
3.90
% 
 
 
3.95
% 
 
 
3.89
% 
 
 
3.95
% 
 
 
3.90
% 

 Equity to assets
  
 
9.44
% 
 
 
9.30
% 
 
 
9.21
% 
 
 
8.41
% 
 
 
7.96
% 

 Dividend payout ratio
  
 
35.88
% 
 
 
37.93
% 
 
 
82.79
% 
 
 
48.95
% 
 
 
33.41
% 

 ASSET QUALITY RATIOS:
  



 



 



 



 




 Nonperforming loans as a percent of gross loans
  
 
0.76
% 
 
 
0.65
% 
 
 
1.07
% 
 
 
1.02
% 
 
 
0.38
% 

 Nonperforming assets as a percent of total assets
  
 
0.75
% 
 
 
0.67
% 
 
 
0.92
% 
 
 
0.82
% 
 
 
0.30
% 

 Allowance for loan losses as a percent of total loans
  
 
1.27
% 
 
 
1.30
% 
 
 
1.25
% 
 
 
1.40
% 
 
 
1.32
% 

 Allowance for loan losses as a percent of nonperforming loans
  
 
166.68
% 
 
 
200.17
% 
 
 
117.07
% 
 
 
137.56
% 
 
 
351.01
% 

 CAPITAL RATIOS:
  



 



 



 



 




 Tier 1 leverage capital ratio
  
 
8.61
% 
 
 
8.19
% 
 
 
7.87
% 
 
 
7.55
% 
 
 
8.02
% 

 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
  
 
10.74
% 
 
 
10.28
% 
 
 
9.83
% 
 
 
9.50
% 
 
 
10.27
% 

 Total risk-based capital ratio
  
 
12.78
% 
 
 
12.37
% 
 
 
11.92
% 
 
 
11.85
% 
 
 
11.52
% 

  32 


Table of Contents
Item 7.    Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  The Company is a state chartered, federally
registered bank holding company, incorporated in 1985. The Company is the sole stockholder of Rockland Trust, a Massachusetts trust company chartered in 1907. For a full list of corporate entities see Item 1 “Business —
General” hereto.  All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. When
necessary, certain amounts in prior year financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. The following should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes
thereto.  Executive Level Overview  During 2011, the Company sustained its positive momentum, as indicated by the notable strength in commercial and home equity loan originations, core deposit growth, new customer acquisition, reduced
credit-related costs, and growth in fee revenue. The Company believes that its focus on employee engagement, service excellence and organic growth through integrated sales and marketing efforts continues to distinguish Rockland Trust from its peers.
Management’s careful approach to risk management has enabled healthy balance sheet growth, growth in the Company’s capital position and excellent asset quality metrics. 
Despite the difficult economy, the Company experienced net income growth of 12.9% as compared to the prior year. The Company’s net
interest margin, while strong at 3.90%, decreased in the latter part of the year due to the significant decrease in interest rate indices, following actions by the Federal Reserve and the effect of global economic challenges. This had, and is
expected to have, a significant impact on loan re-pricing and new loan origination yields. The scheduled amortization of higher yielding loans and securities also weighed on asset yields. As a partial offset to these factors, the Company has
effectively managed to lower the cost of deposits, which decreased to 0.37% for 2011, down from 0.58% in 2010.  The following
table illustrates key performance measures for the periods indicated:   












 
  
For the YearsEnded 
December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Diluted Earnings Per Share
  
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  

 Return on Average Assets
  
 
0.96
% 
 
 
0.88
% 

 Return on Average Common Equity
  
 
9.93
% 
 
 
9.46
% 

 Net Interest Margin
  
 
3.90
% 
 
 
3.95
% 
 Consistent with the Company’s strategic emphasis, the commercial loan portfolio was a significant
driver of loan growth during 2011, as evidenced by commercial and industrial portfolio growth of 14.5% and commercial real estate portfolio growth of 7.6%. The home equity portfolio also experienced significant growth increasing by 20.2%, driven
largely by the demand for first position mortgage refinancing fueled by historically low interest rates.  Deposits increased
to $3.9 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $249.0 million, or 7.0%, as compared to the prior year. The Company continues to focus on improving the mix of deposits with core deposits increasing by $302.1 million, to $3.2 billion, and
time deposits declining by $63.0 million. Accordingly, core deposits as a percentage of total deposits rose to 83.5%.  In
terms of asset quality, the Company continues to experience strong performance. The following charts represent a number of important asset quality indicators that management monitors closely. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Nonperforming assets are comprised of nonperforming loans, nonperforming securities, other
real estate owned, and other assets in possession, and are closely managed to ensure an expedient workout. The following table shows the roll-forward of nonperforming assets for the periods indicated: 
 




















 
  
For the Years Ended
 

 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Nonperforming Assets Beginning Balance
  



 
$
31,493
  
 



 
$
41,245
  

 New to Nonperforming
  



 
 
40,290
  
 



 
 
47,220
  

 Loans Charged-Off
  



 
 
(11,341
) 
 



 
 
(16,187
) 

 Loans Paid-Off
  



 
 
(10,593
) 
 



 
 
(20,484
) 

 Loans Transferred to Other Real Estate Owned/Other Assets
  



 
 
(6,285
) 
 



 
 
(10,836
) 

 Loans Restored to Accrual Status
  



 
 
(5,465
) 
 



 
 
(11,878
) 

 Change to Other Real Estate Owned:
  



 



 



 




 New to Other Real Estate Owned
  
 
6,285
  
 



 
 
10,836
  
 




 Valuation Write Down
  
 
(1,569
) 
 



 
 
(409
) 
 




 Sale of Other Real Estate Owned
  
 
(6,479
) 
 



 
 
(7,133
) 
 




 Other
  
 
1,148
  
 



 
 
(15
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total Change to Other Real Estate Owned
  



 
 
(615
) 
 



 
 
3,279
  

 Change in Fair Value on Nonaccrual Securities
  



 
 
221
  
 



 
 
131
  

 Other
  



 
 
(556
) 
 



 
 
(997
) 


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 

 NONPERFORMING ASSETS ENDING BALANCE
  



 
$
37,149
  
 



 
$
31,493
  


  



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 The following table shows the level of the Company’s nonperforming loans over the last five years:
   


  34 


Table of Contents
The Company considers a loan to be in early stage delinquency when it is between 30-89 days
past due and a loan is considered to be in late stage delinquency when it is 90 days or more past due. Loan delinquency, both early and late stage, remained well contained in 2011. 
  

 In the course of resolving problem loans, the Bank may choose to restructure the contractual terms of
certain loans. Any loans that are modified are reviewed to determine if a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”) has occurred, which is when for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower’s financial difficulties, the Bank grants a
concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. The following table shows the roll-forward of TDRs for the periods indicated:   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 TDRs Beginning Balance
  
$
30,073
  
 
$
13,982
  

 New to TDR Status
  
 
22,485
  
 
 
23,027
  

 Paydowns
  
 
(5,646
) 
 
 
(6,537
) 

 Charge-offs
  
 
(531
) 
 
 
(399
) 

 Loans Removed from TDR Status
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TDRs ENDING BALANCE
  
$
46,381
  
 
$
30,073
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, 80.1% and 86.8% of TDRs were performing and accruing interest,
respectively. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Net loan charge-off activity decreased on a year-to-year basis reflecting a relatively good
local economy, sound underwriting discipline and loan problem resolution skills. The Company’s net loan charge-offs over the last five years are shown in the table below: 
  

 The provision for loan losses was $11.5 million and $18.7 million for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in provisioning levels is largely due to improvements in certain asset quality measures, offset by shifts in the composition of loan portfolio mix, as certain portfolios require different
levels of allowance allocation based upon the risks associated with each portfolio, as well as portfolio growth of outstanding balances. The allowance for loan losses as a percent of loans was 1.27% at December 31, 2011, as compared to 1.30% at
December 31, 2010.  The Company’s results for 2011 were also positively impacted by growth in noninterest income.
Service charges on deposit accounts increased by 22.1% from the prior year to $16.6 million due to increased customer utilization of overdraft privileges. Interchange and ATM fees increased to $7.7 million from $5.1 million in 2010. The increase was
partially due to a reclassification of interchange income that was previously recorded as a net expense in other noninterest expense amounting to $1.5 million, as well as increased debit card usage by the Bank’s customers. The debit card usage
has increased due to marketing promotions related to a debit card point program.  Noninterest expense increased over the prior
year by 4.3% to $145.7 million. The increase in noninterest expense is largely related to the Bank’s investment in its commercial business and increased spending on advertising to promote continued growth. 
In 2012, management will continue to pursue disciplined growth and to endeavor to invest shareholders’ capital in initiatives to
promote long term shareholder value. Despite the industry challenges of a slow growth economy, increased competition, continued pressure on the net interest margin and increased regulatory and compliance requirements, management believes that it is
imperative that the Company continue to make strategic investments in its future. Management will strive to grow the balance sheet and manage expenses in 2012 in order to achieve expected results. Management anticipates that the continuation of
solid fundamentals and asset quality will drive the Company’s results in 2012. Management has provided diluted earnings per share estimates of $2.05 to $2.15 in 2012 as compared to the diluted earnings per share of $2.12 for 2011. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Non-GAAP Measures  When management assesses the Company’s financial performance for purposes of making day-to-day and strategic decisions, it does so based upon the performance of its core banking business, which is
primarily derived from the combination of net interest income and noninterest or fee income, reduced by operating expenses, the provision for loan losses, and the impact of income taxes. The Company’s financial performance is determined in
accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) which sometimes includes gains or losses due to items that management does not believe are related to its core banking business, such as gains or losses on the sales of
securities, merger and acquisition expenses, and other items. Management, therefore, also computes the Company’s non-GAAP operating earnings, which excludes these items, to measure the strength of the Company’s core banking business and to
identify trends that may to some extent be obscured by gains or losses which management deems not to be core to the Company’s operations. Management believes that the financial impact of the items excluded when computing non-GAAP operating
earnings will disappear or become immaterial within a near-term finite period.  Management’s computation of the
Company’s non-GAAP operating earnings information is set forth because management believes it may be useful for investors to have access to the same analytical tool used by management to evaluate the Company’s core operational performance
so that investors may assess the Company’s overall financial health and identify business and performance trends that may be more difficult to identify and evaluate when noncore items are included. Management also believes that the computation
of non-GAAP operating earnings may facilitate the comparison of the Company to other companies in the financial services industry.  Non-GAAP operating earnings should not be considered a substitute for GAAP operating results. An item which management deems to be noncore and excludes when computing non-GAAP operating earnings can be of
substantial importance to the Company’s results for any particular quarter or year. The Company’s non-GAAP operating earning information set forth is not necessarily comparable to non-GAAP information which may be presented by other
companies.  The following table summarizes the impact of noncore items recorded for the time periods indicated below and
reconciles them in accordance with GAAP:   




















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
Net Income
 
 
DilutedEarnings Per Share
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 As Reported (GAAP)
  



 



 



 




 Net Income
  
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  
 
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  

 Noncore Items:
  



 



 



 




 Noninterest Income Components
  



 



 



 




 Net Gain on Sale of Securities, net of tax
  
 
(428
) 
 
 
(271
) 
 
 
(0.02
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 

 Noninterest Expense Components
  



 



 



 




 Prepayment Fees on Borrowings, net of tax
  
 
448
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
—
  

 Fair Value Mark on a Terminated Hedging Relationship, net of tax
  
 
—
  
 
 
328
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
0.01
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Impact of Noncore Items
  
 
20
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 AS ADJUSTED (NON-GAAP)
  
$
45,456
  
 
$
40,297
  
 
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  37 


Table of Contents
The following non-GAAP financial measure is used by the Company to provide information that
management believes is useful to investors in understanding the Company’s operating performance. The Company’s tangible common equity ratio is 6.80%, or 7.18% when presented as adjusted to include the tax deductibility of certain goodwill.
The following table reconciles the calculation of this non-GAAP measure:   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Total Stockholders’ Equity (GAAP)
  
$
469,057
  
 
$
436,472
  

 Less: Goodwill
  
 
130,074
  
 
 
129,617
  

 Less: Identifiable Intangible Assets
  
 
10,648
  
 
 
12,340
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible Equity
  
$
328,335
  
 
$
294,515
  

 Plus: Tax Benefit of Deductible Portion of Goodwill
  
 
16,126
  
 
 
16,126
  

 Plus: Tax Benefit of Deductible Portion of Intangible Assets
  
 
3,946
  
 
 
4,606
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible Equity As adjusted (Non-GAAP)
  
$
348,407
  
 
$
315,247
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Assets (GAAP)
  
$
4,970,240
  
 
$
4,695,738
  

 Less: Goodwill
  
 
130,074
  
 
 
129,617
  

 Less: Identifiable Intangible Assets
  
 
10,648
  
 
 
12,340
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible Assets
  
$
4,829,518
  
 
$
4,553,781
  

 Plus: Tax Benefit of Deductible Portion of Goodwill
  
 
16,126
  
 
 
16,126
  

 Plus: Tax Benefit of Deductible Portion of Intangible Assets
  
 
3,946
  
 
 
4,606
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible Assets As Adjusted (Non-GAAP)
  
$
4,849,590
  
 
$
4,574,513
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tangible Equity/Tangible Assets
  
 
6.80
% 
 
 
6.47
% 

 Tangible Equity/Tangible Assets As Adjusted (Non-GAAP)
  
 
7.18
% 
 
 
6.89
% 
 Financial Position  Securities Portfolio    The Company’s securities portfolio consists of trading securities, securities available for sale, and securities which management intends to hold
until maturity. Securities decreased by $69.3 million, or 11.8%, at December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. The ratio of securities to total assets as of December 31, 2011 was 10.4%, compared to 12.5% at December 31,
2010.  The Company continually reviews investment securities for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment
(“OTTI”). Further analysis of the Company’s OTTI can be found in Note 3 “Securities” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. 
The Company’s trading securities were $8.2 million and $7.6 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and are
comprised of securities which are held solely for the purpose of funding certain executive nonqualified retirement obligations and a community development mutual fund investment. 
  38 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the fair value of available for sale securities and the
amortized cost of held to maturity securities along with the percentage distribution:  Table 1
— Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale and Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity   




























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
  
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  



  



 



  



 



  




 U.S. Treasury Securities
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
717
  
  
 
0.2
% 
 
$
744
  
  
 
0.1
% 

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
238,391
  
  
 
78.1
% 
 
 
313,302
  
  
 
83.0
% 
 
 
451,909
  
  
 
88.9
% 

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
  
 
53,801
  
  
 
17.6
% 
 
 
46,135
  
  
 
12.2
% 
 
 
32,022
  
  
 
6.3
% 

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
6,110
  
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
10,254
  
  
 
2.7
% 
 
 
14,289
  
  
 
2.8
% 

 State, County and Municipal Securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
4,081
  
  
 
0.8
% 

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks
  
 
4,210
  
  
 
1.4
% 
 
 
4,221
  
  
 
1.1
% 
 
 
3,010
  
  
 
0.6
% 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
  
 
2,820
  
  
 
0.9
% 
 
 
2,828
  
  
 
0.7
% 
 
 
2,595
  
  
 
0.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
$
305,332
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
377,457
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
508,650
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity
  



  



 



  



 



  




 U.S. Treasury Securities
  
$
1,014
  
  
 
0.5
% 
 
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
$
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
109,553
  
  
 
53.5
% 
 
 
95,697
  
  
 
47.2
% 
 
 
54,064
  
  
 
57.9
% 

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
  
 
77,804
  
  
 
38.0
% 
 
 
89,823
  
  
 
44.3
% 
 
 
14,321
  
  
 
15.3
% 

 State, County and Municipal Securities
  
 
3,576
  
  
 
1.7
% 
 
 
10,562
  
  
 
5.2
% 
 
 
15,252
  
  
 
16.3
% 

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks
  
 
8,000
  
  
 
3.9
% 
 
 
6,650
  
  
 
3.3
% 
 
 
9,773
  
  
 
10.5
% 

 Corporate Debt Securities
  
 
5,009
  
  
 
2.4
% 
 
 
—
  
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
—
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity
  
$
204,956
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
202,732
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
93,410
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
510,288
  
  



 
$
580,189
  
  



 
$
602,060
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 The Company’s available for sale securities are carried at fair value and are categorized within the
fair value hierarchy based on the observability of model inputs. Securities which require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable are classified as Level 3. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company
had $13.1 million and $17.3 million of securities categorized as Level 3, which represented 3.7% and 4.1% of the total assets recorded at fair value, respectively. 
  39 


Table of Contents
The following tables set forth contractual maturities of the Bank’s securities
portfolio at December 31, 2011. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. 
Table 2 — Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale and Amortized Cost of Securities Held to
Maturity, Amounts Maturing   
































































 
 
Within One Year
 
 
One year to Five Years
 
 
Five Years to Ten Years
 
 
Over Ten Years
 
 
Total
 

 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 
 
Amount
 
 
% ofTotal
 
 
WeightedAverageYield
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
$
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
2,717
  
 
 
0.9
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
$
50,021
  
 
 
16.4
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
$
185,653
  
 
 
60.8
% 
 
 
4.6
% 
 
$
238,391
  
 
 
78.1
% 
 
 
4.6
% 

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
11,043
  
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
42,758
  
 
 
14.0
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
53,801
  
 
 
17.6
% 
 
 
2.2
% 

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,110
  
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
6.0
% 
 
 
6,110
  
 
 
2.0
% 
 
 
6.0
% 

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,210
  
 
 
1.4
% 
 
 
7.7
% 
 
 
4,210
  
 
 
1.4
% 
 
 
7.7
% 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,820
  
 
 
0.9
% 
 
 
1.2
% 
 
 
2,820
  
 
 
0.9
% 
 
 
1.2
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
2,717
  
 
 
0.9
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
$
61,064
  
 
 
20.0
% 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
$
241,551
  
 
 
79.1
% 
 
 
4.1
% 
 
$
305,332
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
4.2
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury Securities
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
1,014
  
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
3.0
% 
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
1,014
  
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
3.0
% 

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
281
  
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
959
  
 
 
0.5
% 
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
108,313
  
 
 
52.8
% 
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
109,553
  
 
 
53.5
% 
 
 
3.4
% 

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
77,804
  
 
 
38.0
% 
 
 
2.8
% 
 
 
77,804
  
 
 
38.0
% 
 
 
2.8
% 

 State, County and Municipal Securities
 
 
330
  
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
2,601
  
 
 
1.3
% 
 
 
4.5
% 
 
 
645
  
 
 
0.3
% 
 
 
4.8
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,576
  
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
4.5
% 

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,000
  
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
6.4
% 
 
 
8,000
  
 
 
3.9
% 
 
 
6.4
% 

 Corporate Debt Securities
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,009
  
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,009
  
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
3.4
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Amortized Cost of Securities Held to Maturity
 
$
330
  
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
3.9
% 
 
$
7,891
  
 
 
3.8
% 
 
 
3.8
% 
 
$
2,618
  
 
 
1.3
% 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
$
194,117
  
 
 
94.7
% 
 
 
3.3
% 
 
$
204,956
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
3.3
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
$
330
  
 



 
 
3.9
% 
 
$
10,608
  
 



 
 
4.1
% 
 
$
63,682
  
 



 
 
4.4
% 
 
$
435,668
  
 



 
 
3.8
% 
 
$
510,288
  
 



 
 
3.8
% 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, the weighted average life of the securities portfolio was 4.3 years and the
modified duration was 3.5 years.  Residential Mortgage Loan Sales   The Company’s primary loan sale
activity arises from the sale of government sponsored enterprise eligible residential mortgage loans to other financial institutions. During 2011and 2010, the Bank originated residential loans with the intention of selling them in the secondary
market. Loans are sold with servicing rights released and with servicing rights retained. The table below reflects the origination of these loans during the periods indicated:  Table 3 — Residential Mortgage Loan Sales   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Loans originated and sold with servicing rights released
  
$
270,357
  
  
$
331,101
  

 Loans originated and sold with servicing rights retained
  
$
8,627
  
  
$
11,257
  

  40 


Table of Contents
The Company originates and sells loans to third parties and recognizes a mortgage servicing
asset when it sells a loan with servicing rights retained. When a loan is sold, the Company enters into agreements that contain representations and warranties about the characteristics of the loans sold and their origination. The Company may be
required to either repurchase mortgage loans or to indemnify the purchaser from losses if representations and warranties are breached. During the year ended December 31, 2011 the Company incurred losses of $222,000 on loans that were agreed to
be repurchased. The Company has not at this time established a reserve for loan repurchases as it believes material losses are not probable.  Forward sale contracts of mortgage loans, considered derivative instruments for accounting purposes, are utilized by the Company in its efforts to manage risk of loss associated with its mortgage loan
commitments and mortgage loans held for sale. Prior to closing and funding certain one-to-four residential mortgage loans, an interest rate lock commitment is generally extended to the borrower. During the period from commitment date to closing
date, the Company is subject to the risk that market rates of interest may change. If market rates rise, investors generally will pay less to purchase such loans resulting in a reduction in the gain on sale of the loans or, possibly, a loss. In an
effort to mitigate such risk, forward delivery sales commitments are executed, under which the Company agrees to deliver whole mortgage loans to various investors. See Note 12, “Derivative and Hedging Activities” within Notes to
Consolidated Financial statements included in Item 8 hereof for more information on mortgage loan commitments and forward sales agreements.  Loan Portfolio    Management continues to focus on growth in the commercial and home equity lending categories, while placing less emphasis on the other lending categories.
Although changing the composition of the Company’s loan portfolio has led to a slower growth rate, management believes the change to be prudent, given the prevailing interest rate and economic environment, as well as strategic priorities. The
following table sets forth information concerning the composition of the Bank’s loan portfolio by loan type at the dates indicated:  Table 4 — Loan Portfolio Composition   












































 
 
As of December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 

 Commercial and Industrial
 
$
575,716
  
 
 
15.2
% 
 
$
502,952
  
 
 
14.1
% 
 
$
373,531
  
 
 
11.0
% 
 
$
270,832
  
 
 
10.2
% 
 
$
190,522
  
 
 
9.4
% 

 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
1,847,654
  
 
 
48.6
% 
 
 
1,717,118
  
 
 
48.4
% 
 
 
1,614,474
  
 
 
47.5
% 
 
 
1,126,295
  
 
 
42.4
% 
 
 
797,416
  
 
 
39.2
% 

 Commercial Construction
 
 
128,904
  
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
129,421
  
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
175,312
  
 
 
5.2
% 
 
 
171,955
  
 
 
6.5
% 
 
 
133,372
  
 
 
6.6
% 

 Small Business
 
 
78,509
  
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
80,026
  
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
82,569
  
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
86,670
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 
 
69,977
  
 
 
3.4
% 

 Residential Real Estate
 
 
416,570
  
 
 
11.0
% 
 
 
473,936
  
 
 
13.3
% 
 
 
555,306
  
 
 
16.4
% 
 
 
413,024
  
 
 
15.6
% 
 
 
323,847
  
 
 
15.9
% 

 Residential Construction
 
 
9,631
  
 
 
0.3
% 
 
 
4,175
  
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
10,736
  
 
 
0.3
% 
 
 
10,950
  
 
 
0.4
% 
 
 
6,115
  
 
 
0.3
% 

 Home Equity
 
 
696,063
  
 
 
18.3
% 
 
 
579,278
  
 
 
16.3
% 
 
 
471,862
  
 
 
13.9
% 
 
 
406,240
  
 
 
15.3
% 
 
 
308,744
  
 
 
15.2
% 

 Consumer — Other
 
 
41,343
  
 
 
1.1
% 
 
 
68,773
  
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
111,725
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 
 
166,570
  
 
 
6.3
% 
 
 
201,831
  
 
 
10.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross Loans
 
 
3,794,390
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
3,555,679
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
3,395,515
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
2,652,536
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
2,031,824
  
 
 
100.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses
 
 
48,260
  
 



 
 
46,255
  
 



 
 
42,361
  
 



 
 
37,049
  
 



 
 
26,831
  
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 NET LOANS
 
$
3,746,130
  
 



 
$
3,509,424
  
 



 
$
3,353,154
  
 



 
$
2,615,487
  
 



 
$
2,004,993
  
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




  41 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the scheduled contractual amortization of the Bank’s
loan portfolio at December 31, 2011. Loans having no schedule of repayments or no stated maturity are reported as due in one year or less. The following table also sets forth the rate structure of loans scheduled to mature after one year:
 Table 5 — Scheduled Contractual Loan Amortization 
 








































 
 
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
 
Commercial
 
 
CommercialReal Estate
 
 
CommercialConstruction
 
 
SmallBusiness
 
 
ResidentialReal Estate
 
 
ResidentialConstruction
 
 
ConsumerHome Equity
 
 
ConsumerOther
 
 
Total
 

 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Amounts Due in:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 One Year or Less
 
$
251,749
  
 
$
359,715
  
 
$
48,871
  
 
$
27,365
  
 
$
19,922
  
 
$
9,631
  
 
$
16,383
  
 
$
20,062
  
 
$
753,698
  

 After One Year Through
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Five Years
 
 
222,690
  
 
 
1,006,892
  
 
 
53,201
  
 
 
31,927
  
 
 
68,818
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
71,410
  
 
 
16,949
  
 
 
1,471,887
  

 Beyond Five Years
 
 
101,277
  
 
 
481,047
  
 
 
26,832
  
 
 
19,217
  
 
 
327,830
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
608,270
  
 
 
4,332
  
 
 
1,568,805
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
$
575,716
  
 
$
1,847,654
  
 
$
128,904
(1) 
 
$
78,509
  
 
$
416,570
  
 
$
9,631
  
 
$
696,063
  
 
$
41,343
  
 
$
3,794,390
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Interest Rate Terms on Amounts Due After One Year:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Fixed Rate
 
$
94,413
  
 
$
646,367
  
 
$
25,379
  
 
$
24,697
  
 
$
231,395
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
261,659
  
 
$
21,281
  
 
 
1,305,191
  

 Adjustable Rate
 
 
229,554
  
 
 
841,572
  
 
 
54,654
  
 
 
26,447
  
 
 
165,253
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
418,021
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,735,501
  
  


(1)
Includes certain construction loans that will convert to commercial mortgages and will be reclassified to commercial real estate upon the completion of the construction
phase.  As of December 31, 2011, $4.7 million of loans scheduled to mature within one year were
nonperforming.  Generally, the actual maturity of loans is substantially shorter than their contractual maturity due to
prepayments and, in the case of real estate loans, due-on-sale clauses, which generally gives the Bank the right to declare a loan immediately due and payable in the event that, among other things, the borrower sells the property subject to the
mortgage and the loan is not repaid. The average life of real estate loans tends to increase when current real estate loan rates are higher than rates on mortgages in the portfolio and, conversely, tends to decrease when rates on mortgages in the
portfolio are higher than current real estate loan rates. Under the latter scenario, the weighted average yield on the portfolio tends to decrease as higher yielding loans are repaid or refinanced at lower rates. Due to the fact that the Bank may,
consistent with industry practice, renew a significant portion of commercial and commercial real estate loans at or immediately prior to their maturity by renewing the loans on substantially similar or revised terms, the principal repayments
actually received by the Bank are anticipated to be significantly less than the amounts contractually due in any particular period. In other circumstances, a loan, or a portion of a loan, may not be repaid due to the borrower’s inability to
satisfy the contractual obligations of the loan.  Asset Quality    The Company continually monitors
the asset quality of the loan portfolio using all available information. Based on this information, loans demonstrating certain payment issues or other weaknesses may be categorized as delinquent, impaired, nonperforming and/or put on nonaccrual
status. Additionally, in the course of resolving such loans, the Company may choose to restructure the contractual terms of certain loans to match the borrower’s ability to repay the loan based on their current financial condition. If a
restructured loan meets certain criteria, it may be categorized as a TDR. 
Delinquency    The Bank’s philosophy toward managing its loan portfolios is predicated upon
careful monitoring, which stresses early detection and response to delinquent and default situations. The Bank considers a loan to have defaulted when it reaches 90 days past due. The Bank seeks to make arrangements to resolve any delinquent or
default situation over the shortest possible time frame. Generally, the Bank requires that a 
  42 


Table of Contents

delinquency notice be mailed to a borrower upon expiration of a grace period (typically no longer than 15 days beyond the due date). Reminder notices may be sent and telephone calls may be
made prior to the expiration of the grace period. If the delinquent status is not resolved within a reasonable time frame following the mailing of a delinquency notice, the Bank’s personnel charged with managing its loan portfolios, contact the
borrower to ascertain the reasons for delinquency and the prospects for payment. Any subsequent actions taken to resolve the delinquency will depend upon the nature of the loan and the length of time that the loan has been delinquent. The
borrower’s needs are considered as much as reasonably possible without jeopardizing the Bank’s position. A late charge is usually assessed on loans upon expiration of the grace period.
Nonaccrual Loans    As a general rule, within commercial real estate or home equity categories, loans
more than 90 days past due with respect to principal or interest are classified as nonaccrual loans. As permitted by banking regulations, certain consumer loans past due 90 days or more continue to accrue interest. In addition, certain commercial
and real estate loans that are more than 90 days past due may be kept on an accruing status if the loans are well secured and in the process of collection. Income accruals are suspended on all nonaccrual loans and all previously accrued and
uncollected interest is reversed against current income. A loan remains on nonaccrual status until it becomes current with respect to principal and interest (and in certain instances remains current for up to six months), when the loan is
liquidated, or when the loan is determined to be uncollectible and is charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. 
Troubled Debt Restructurings    In the course of resolving problem loans, the Bank may choose to
restructure the contractual terms of certain loans. The Bank attempts to work-out an alternative payment schedule with the borrower in order to avoid or cure a default. Any loans that are modified are reviewed by the Bank to identify if a TDR has
occurred, which is when, for economic or legal reasons related to a borrower’s financial difficulties, the Bank grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. Terms may be modified to fit the ability of the borrower
to repay in line with its current financial status and the restructuring of the loan may include the transfer of assets from the borrower to satisfy the debt, a modification of loan terms, or a combination of the two. If such efforts by the Bank do
not result in satisfactory performance, the loan is referred to legal counsel, at which time foreclosure proceedings are initiated. At any time prior to a sale of the property at foreclosure, the Bank may terminate foreclosure proceedings if the
borrower is able to work-out a satisfactory payment plan.  It is the Bank’s policy to have any restructured loans which
are on nonaccrual status prior to being modified remain on nonaccrual status for six months, subsequent to being modified, before management considers its return to accrual status. If the restructured loan is on accrual status prior to being
modified, it is reviewed to determine if the modified loan should remain on accrual status. Loans that are considered TDRs are classified as performing, unless they are on nonaccrual status or greater than 90 days delinquent. All TDRs are considered
impaired by the Company, unless it is determined that the borrower is performing under modified terms and the restructuring agreement specified an interest rate greater than or equal to an acceptable rate for a comparable new loan at the time of the
restructuring.  Nonperforming Assets    Nonperforming assets are comprised of nonperforming
loans, nonperforming securities, Other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”), and other assets in possession. Nonperforming loans consist of nonaccrual loans and loans that are more than 90 days past due but still accruing interest. 
Nonperforming securities consist of securities that are on nonaccrual status. The Company holds six collateralized debt obligation
securities (“CDOs”) comprised of pools of trust preferred securities issued by banks and insurance companies, which are currently deferring interest payments on certain tranches within the bonds’ structures including the tranches held
by the Company. The bonds are anticipated to continue to defer interest until cash flows are sufficient to satisfy certain collateralization levels designed to protect more senior tranches. As a result the Company has placed the six securities on
nonaccrual status and has reversed any previously accrued income related to these securities. 
  43 


Table of Contents
OREO consists of properties which when deemed to be controlled by the Bank, are recorded at
fair value less cost to sell at the date control is established, resulting in a new cost basis. The amount by which the recorded investment in the loan exceeds the fair value (net of estimated cost to sell) of the foreclosed asset is charged to the
allowance for loan losses. Subsequent declines in the fair value of the foreclosed asset below the new cost basis are recorded through the use of a valuation allowance. Subsequent increases in the fair value are recorded as reductions in the
allowance, but not below zero. All costs incurred thereafter in maintaining the property are charged to noninterest expense. In the event the real estate is utilized as a rental property, rental income and expenses are recorded as incurred and
included in noninterest income and noninterest expense, respectively.  Other assets in possession primarily consist of
foreclosed assets deemed to be in control of the Company.  The following table sets forth information regarding nonperforming
assets held by the Bank at the dates indicated:  Table 6 — Nonperforming Assets
  
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Loans Accounted for on a Nonaccrual Basis(1)
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
  
$
1,883
  
 
$
3,123
  
 
$
4,205
  
 
$
1,942
  
 
$
306
  

 Small Business
  
 
542
  
 
 
887
  
 
 
793
  
 
 
1,111
  
 
 
439
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
13,109
  
 
 
9,836
  
 
 
18,525
  
 
 
12,370
  
 
 
2,568
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
9,867
  
 
 
6,728
  
 
 
10,829
  
 
 
9,394
  
 
 
2,380
  

 Home Equity
  
 
3,130
  
 
 
1,752
  
 
 
1,166
  
 
 
1,090
  
 
 
872
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
381
  
 
 
505
  
 
 
373
  
 
 
751
  
 
 
579
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
28,912
  
 
$
22,831
  
 
$
35,891
  
 
$
26,658
  
 
$
7,144
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loans Past Due 90 Days or More But Still Accruing
  



 



 



 



 




 Home Equity
  
$
—
  
 
$
4
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  
 
$
—
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
41
  
 
 
273
  
 
 
292
  
 
 
275
  
 
 
500
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
41
  
 
$
277
  
 
$
292
  
 
$
275
  
 
$
500
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Nonperforming Loans
  
$
28,953
  
 
$
23,108
  
 
$
36,183
  
 
$
26,933
  
 
$
7,644
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonaccrual Securities(2)
  
 
1,272
  
 
 
1,051
  
 
 
920
  
 
 
910
  
 
 
—
  

 Other Assets in Possession
  
 
266
  
 
 
61
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
—
  

 Other Real Estate Owned
  
 
6,658
  
 
 
7,273
  
 
 
3,994
  
 
 
1,809
  
 
 
681
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL NONPERFORMING ASSETS
  
$
37,149
  
 
$
31,493
  
 
$
41,245
  
 
$
29,883
  
 
$
8,325
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonperforming Loans as a Percent of Gross Loans
  
 
0.76
% 
 
 
0.65
% 
 
 
1.07
% 
 
 
1.02
% 
 
 
0.38
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Nonperforming Assets as a Percent of Total Assets
  
 
0.75
% 
 
 
0.67
% 
 
 
0.92
% 
 
 
0.82
% 
 
 
0.30
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
There were $9.2 million, $4.0 million, $3.4 million, and $74,000 TDRs on nonaccrual at December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were no TDRs on
nonaccrual at December 31, 2007.   


(2)
Amounts represent the fair value of nonaccrual securities. The Company had six nonaccrual securities in 2011, 2010, and 2009, and five nonaccrual securities in 2008.

  44 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth information regarding troubled debt restructured loans as of
the dates indicated:  Table 7 — Troubled Debt Restructurings 
 
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Performing Troubled Debt Restructurings
  
$
37,151
  
 
$
26,091
  
 
$
10,484
  
 
$
1,063
  
 
$
—
  

 Nonaccrual Troubled Debt Restructurings
  
 
9,230
  
 
 
3,982
  
 
 
3,498
  
 
 
74
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
46,381
  
 
$
30,073
  
 
$
13,982
  
 
$
1,137
  
 
$
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Performing Troubled Debt Restructurings as a % of Total Loans
  
 
0.98
% 
 
 
0.73
% 
 
 
0.31
% 
 
 
0.04
% 
 
 
—
  

 Nonaccrual Troubled Debt Restructurings as a % of Total Loans
  
 
0.24
% 
 
 
0.11
% 
 
 
0.10
% 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Total Troubled Debt Restucturings as a % of Total Loans
  
 
1.22
% 
 
 
0.85
% 
 
 
0.41
% 
 
 
0.04
% 
 
 
—
  
 Income accruals are suspended on all nonaccrual loans and all previously accrued and uncollected interest
is reversed against current income. The table below shows interest income that was recognized or collected on all nonaccrual loans and performing TDRs as of the dates indicated: 
Table 8 — Interest Income Recognized/Collected on Nonaccrual Loans and Troubled Debt Restructured
Loans   
















 
  
  For the Years Ended December 31,  
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Interest Income that Would Have Been Recognized if Nonaccruing Loans Had Been Performing
  
$
1,739
  
  
$
2,749
  
  
$
2,004
  

 Interest Income Recognized on TDRs Still Accruing
  
 
2,140
  
  
 
1,425
  
  
 
330
  

 Interest Collected on these Nonaccrual Loans and TDRs and Included in Interest Income
  
$
2,708
  
  
$
1,874
  
  
$
359
  
 A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Bank
will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the
probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the significance of payment
delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record,
and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed.  Impairment is measured on a loan by loan
basis for commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, commercial construction, and small business categories and for all loans identified as a troubled debt restructuring by comparing the loan’s value to either the present value of
expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loan’s obtainable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. For impaired loans deemed collateral dependent, where
impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral, the Bank will either order a new appraisal or use another available source of collateral assessment such as a broker’s opinion of value to determine a reasonable estimate of the
fair value of the collateral. 
  45 


Table of Contents
At December 31, 2011, impaired loans included all commercial and industrial loans,
commercial real estate loans, commercial construction, and small business loans that are on nonaccrual status, TDRs, and other loans that have been categorized as impaired. Total impaired loans at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $61.7 million
and $47.4 million, respectively. For additional information regarding the Bank’s asset quality, including delinquent loans, nonaccruals, TDRs, and impaired loans, see Note 4, “Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Credit
Quality” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof.  Potential problem loans
are any loans which are not included in nonaccrual or nonperforming loans, where known information about possible credit problems of the borrowers causes management to have concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with present loan
repayment terms. The table below shows the potential problem commercial loans at the time periods indicated:  
Table 9 — Potential Problem Commercial Loans   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Number of Loan Relationships
  
 
64
  
  
 
62
  

 Aggregate Outstanding Balance
  
$
113,641
  
  
$
126,167
  
 At December 31, 2011, these potential problem loans continued to perform with respect to payments.
Management actively monitors these loans and strives to minimize any possible adverse impact to the Bank.  Allowance for
Loan Losses    The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level that management considers adequate to provide for probable loan losses based upon evaluation of known and inherent risks in the loan portfolio. The
allowance is increased by providing for loan losses through a charge to expense and by recoveries of loans previously charged-off and is reduced by loans being charged-off.  While management uses available information to recognize losses on loans, future additions to the allowance may be necessary based on increases in nonperforming loans, changes in economic conditions, or
for other reasons. Additionally, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of the Bank’s examination process, periodically assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses and may require it to increase its provision for loan losses
or recognize further loan charge-offs.  As of December 31, 2011, the allowance for loan losses totaled $48.3 million, or
1.27% of total loans as compared to $46.3 million, or 1.30% of total loans, at December 31, 2010. The increase in the amount of allowance and its corresponding decrease as a percentage of total loans, is largely due to improvements in certain
asset quality measures, offset by shifts in the composition of loan portfolio mix, as certain portfolios require different levels of allowance allocation based upon the risks associated with each portfolio, as well as portfolio growth of outstanding
balances. 
  46 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for loan losses and other selected
statistics for the periods presented:  Table 10 — Summary of Changes in the Allowance for
Loan Losses   
























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Average Total Loans
  
$
3,681,418
  
 
$
3,434,769
  
 
$
3,177,949
  
 
$
2,489,028
  
 
$
1,994,273
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses, Beginning of Year
  
$
46,255
  
 
$
42,361
  
 
$
37,049
  
 
$
26,831
  
 
$
26,815
  

 Charged-Off Loans:
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
  
 
2,888
  
 
 
5,170
  
 
 
1,663
  
 
 
595
  
 
 
498
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
2,631
  
 
 
3,448
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
769
  
 
 
1,716
  
 
 
2,679
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Small Business
  
 
1,190
  
 
 
2,279
  
 
 
2,047
  
 
 
1,350
  
 
 
789
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
559
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
829
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
—
  

 Home Equity
  
 
1,626
  
 
 
939
  
 
 
1,799
  
 
 
1,200
  
 
 
122
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
1,678
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
3,404
  
 
 
3,631
  
 
 
2,459
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Charged-Off Loans
  
 
11,341
  
 
 
16,187
  
 
 
13,255
  
 
 
7,138
  
 
 
3,868
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Recoveries on Loans Previously Charged-Off:
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
  
 
420
  
 
 
361
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
168
  
 
 
63
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
97
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
500
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Small Business
  
 
160
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
159
  
 
 
26
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
—
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Home Equity
  
 
52
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
—
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
635
  
 
 
657
  
 
 
855
  
 
 
612
  
 
 
665
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Recoveries
  
 
1,864
  
 
 
1,426
  
 
 
1,232
  
 
 
944
  
 
 
754
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loans Charged-Off:
  



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
  
 
2,468
  
 
 
4,809
  
 
 
1,636
  
 
 
427
  
 
 
435
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
2,534
  
 
 
3,447
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
269
  
 
 
1,716
  
 
 
2,679
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Small Business
  
 
1,030
  
 
 
2,062
  
 
 
1,843
  
 
 
1,191
  
 
 
763
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
559
  
 
 
498
  
 
 
724
  
 
 
362
  
 
 
—
  

 Home Equity
  
 
1,574
  
 
 
808
  
 
 
1,758
  
 
 
1,195
  
 
 
122
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
1,043
  
 
 
1,421
  
 
 
2,549
  
 
 
3,019
  
 
 
1,794
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Net Loans Charged-Off
  
 
9,477
  
 
 
14,761
  
 
 
12,023
  
 
 
6,194
  
 
 
3,114
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance Related to Business Combinations
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,524
  
 
 
—
  

 Provision for Loan Losses
  
 
11,482
  
 
 
18,655
  
 
 
17,335
  
 
 
10,888
  
 
 
3,130
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ALLOWANCES FOR LOAN LOSSES, END OF YEAR
  
$
48,260
  
 
$
46,255
  
 
$
42,361
  
 
$
37,049
  
 
$
26,831
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loans Charged-Off as a Percent of Average Total Loans
  
 
0.26
% 
 
 
0.43
% 
 
 
0.38
% 
 
 
0.25
% 
 
 
0.16
% 

 Allowance for Loan Losses as a Percent of Total Loans
  
 
1.27
% 
 
 
1.30
% 
 
 
1.25
% 
 
 
1.40
% 
 
 
1.32
% 

 Allowance for Loan Losses as a Percent of Nonperforming Loans
  
 
166.68
% 
 
 
200.17
% 
 
 
117.07
% 
 
 
137.56
% 
 
 
351.01
% 

 Net Loans Charged-Off as a Percent of Allowance for Loan Losses
  
 
19.64
% 
 
 
31.91
% 
 
 
28.38
% 
 
 
16.72
% 
 
 
11.61
% 

 Recoveries as a Percent of Charge-Offs
  
 
16.44
% 
 
 
8.81
% 
 
 
9.29
% 
 
 
13.22
% 
 
 
19.49
% 

  47 


Table of Contents
For purposes of the allowance for loan losses, management segregates the loan portfolio into
the portfolio segments detailed in the table below. The allocation of the allowance for loan losses is made to each loan category using the analytical techniques and estimation methods described herein. While these amounts represent
management’s best estimate of the distribution of probable losses at the evaluation dates, they are not necessarily indicative of either the categories in which actual losses may occur or the extent of such actual losses that may be recognized
within each category. Each of these loan categories possess unique risk characteristics that are considered when determining the appropriate level of allowance for each segment. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of
the loan portfolio.  The following table sets forth the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan category at the
dates indicated:  Table 11 — Summary of Allocation of Allowance for Loan Losses
  












































 
 
As of December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
AllowanceAmount
 
 
Percent ofLoansInCategoryTo TotalLoans
 
 
AllowanceAmount
 
 
Percent ofLoansInCategoryTo TotalLoans
 
 
AllowanceAmount
 
 
Percent ofLoansInCategoryTo TotalLoans
 
 
AllowanceAmount
 
 
Percent ofLoansInCategoryTo TotalLoans
 
 
AllowanceAmount
 
 
Percent ofLoansInCategoryTo TotalLoans
 

 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Allocated Allowance:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
 
$
11,682
  
 
 
15.2
% 
 
$
10,423
  
 
 
14.1
% 
 
$
7,545
  
 
 
11.0
% 
 
$
5,532
  
 
 
10.2
% 
 
$
3,850
  
 
 
9.4
% 

 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
23,514
  
 
 
48.6
% 
 
 
21,939
  
 
 
48.4
% 
 
 
19,451
  
 
 
47.5
% 
 
 
15,942
  
 
 
42.4
% 
 
 
13,939
  
 
 
39.2
% 

 Commercial Construction
 
 
2,076
  
 
 
3.4
% 
 
 
2,145
  
 
 
3.6
% 
 
 
2,457
  
 
 
5.5
% 
 
 
4,203
  
 
 
6.9
% 
 
 
3,408
  
 
 
6.9
% 

 Small Business
 
 
1,896
  
 
 
2.1
% 
 
 
3,740
  
 
 
2.3
% 
 
 
3,372
  
 
 
2.4
% 
 
 
2,170
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 
 
1,265
  
 
 
3.4
% 

 Residential Real Estate
 
 
3,113
  
 
 
11.3
% 
 
 
2,915
  
 
 
13.4
% 
 
 
2,840
  
 
 
16.4
% 
 
 
2,447
  
 
 
15.6
% 
 
 
741
  
 
 
15.9
% 

 Home Equity
 
 
4,597
  
 
 
18.3
% 
 
 
3,369
  
 
 
16.3
% 
 
 
3,945
  
 
 
13.9
% 
 
 
3,091
  
 
 
15.3
% 
 
 
1,326
  
 
 
15.2
% 

 Consumer — Other
 
 
1,382
  
 
 
1.1
% 
 
 
1,724
  
 
 
1.9
% 
 
 
2,751
  
 
 
3.3
% 
 
 
3,664
  
 
 
6.3
% 
 
 
2,302
  
 
 
10.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
$
48,260
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
46,255
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
42,361
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
37,049
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
26,831
  
 
 
100.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 To determine if a loan should be charged-off, all possible sources of repayment are analyzed. Possible
sources of repayment include the potential for future cash flows, the value of the Bank’s collateral, and the strength of co-makers or guarantors. When available information confirms that specific loans or portions thereof are uncollectible,
these amounts are promptly charged-off against the allowance for loan losses and any recoveries of such previously charged-off amounts are credited to the allowance.  Regardless of whether a loan is unsecured or collateralized, the Company charges off the amount of any confirmed loan loss in the period when the loans, or portions of loans, are deemed uncollectible. For
troubled, collateral-dependent loans, loss-confirming events may include an appraisal or other valuation that reflects a shortfall between the value of the collateral and the book value of the loan or receivable, or a deficiency balance following
the sale of the collateral. During 2011 allowance amounts increased by approximately $2.0 million to $48.3 million at December 31, 2011.  For additional information regarding the Bank’s allowance for loan losses, see Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 4, “Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses,
and Credit Quality” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof.  Federal
Home Loan Bank Stock    The Bank held an investment in Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston of $35.9 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The FHLB is a cooperative that
provides services to its member banking institutions. The primary reason for the FHLB of Boston 
  48 


Table of Contents

membership is to gain access to a reliable source of wholesale funding, particularly term funding, as a tool to manage interest rate risk. The purchase of stock in the FHLB is a requirement for a
member to gain access to funding. The Company purchases FHLB stock proportional to the volume of funding received and views the purchases as a necessary long-term investment for the purposes of balance sheet liquidity and not for investment return.
 During the first quarter of 2009, the FHLB indefinitely suspended its dividend payment, and continued the moratorium, put
into effect during the fourth quarter of 2008, on all excess stock repurchases in an effort to help preserve capital. A significant portion of the Bank’s liquidity needs are satisfied through its access to funding pursuant to its membership in
the FHLB. The FHLB’s board of directors has continued to focus on building retained earnings while delivering core solutions of liquidity and longer-term funding to their members. In addition to restoring a modest dividend in 2011, as a result
of these efforts, the FHLB also announced a plan to repurchase excess capital stock beginning in 2012.  Goodwill and
Identifiable Intangible Assets    Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets were $140.7 million and $142.0 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. For additional information regarding the
goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, see Note 6, “Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. 
Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance Policies    The bank holds life insurance policies for the purpose of
offsetting the Bank’s future obligations to its employees under its retirement and benefits plans. The cash surrender value of life insurance policies was $86.1 and $82.7 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
respectively. The bank recorded tax exempt income from the life insurance policies of $3.2 million in both 2011 and 2010 and $2.9 million in 2009.  Deposits    As of December 31, 2011, deposits of $3.9 billion were $249.0 million, or 6.9%, higher than the prior year-end. Core deposits, which the Company defines as
nontime and nonbrokered deposits, increased by $302.1 million, or 10.3%, during 2011 and now comprise 83.5% of total deposits. The Company experienced growth in all categories of deposits fueled by increases in business deposits from commercial loan
customers, inflows of municipal deposits and higher consumer deposits resulting from an increased advertising presence. The Company’s emphasis on core deposits has led to a steady reduction in time deposits which declined by $63.0 million or
9.1%, at December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010.  The following table sets forth the average balances of
the Bank’s deposits for the periods indicated:  Table 12 — Average Balances of
Deposits   




























 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
  
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
  
Percent
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Demand Deposits
  
$
910,701
  
  
 
24.9
% 
 
$
773,718
  
  
 
22.0
% 
 
$
659,916
  
  
 
21.0
% 

 Savings and Interest Checking
  
 
1,355,478
  
  
 
37.2
% 
 
 
1,183,247
  
  
 
33.7
% 
 
 
913,881
  
  
 
29.2
% 

 Money Market
  
 
728,380
  
  
 
19.9
% 
 
 
739,264
  
  
 
21.1
% 
 
 
639,231
  
  
 
20.4
% 

 Time Certificates of Deposits
  
 
656,486
  
  
 
18.0
% 
 
 
814,462
  
  
 
23.2
% 
 
 
921,787
  
  
 
29.4
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
3,651,045
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,510,691
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,134,815
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  49 


Table of Contents
The following table sets forth the maturities of the Bank’s time certificates of
deposits in the amount of $100,000 or more as of December 31, 2011:  Table 13 — Maturities
of Time Certificates of Deposits $100,000 and Over   












 
  
Balance
 
  
Percentage
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 1 to 3 months
  
$
53,767
  
  
 
23.9
% 

 4 to 6 months
  
 
63,254
  
  
 
28.1
% 

 7 to 12 months
  
 
55,245
  
  
 
24.5
% 

 Over 12 months
  
 
52,833
  
  
 
23.5
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
225,099
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Bank also participates in the Certificate of Deposit Registry Service (“CDARS”) program,
allowing the Bank to provide easy access to multi-million dollar FDIC deposit insurance protection on certificate of deposits investments for consumers, businesses and public entities. The economic downturn and subsequent flight to safety makes
CDARS an attractive product for customers. In addition, the Bank may occasionally raise funds through brokered certificates of deposit. This channel allows the Bank to seek additional funding in potentially large quantities by attracting deposits
from outside the Bank’s core market. The following table sets forth the Bank’s brokered deposits as of the dates indicated:  Table 14 — Brokered Deposits   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 CDARS
  
$
55,150
  
  
$
13,642
  

 Brokered Certificates of Deposit
  
 
13,815
  
  
 
—
  

 Brokered Money Market
  
 
10,000
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL BROKERED DEPOSITS
  
$
78,965
  
  
$
13,642
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Borrowings    The following table shows the balance of borrowings at the
periods indicated:  Table 15 — Borrowings by Category 
 
















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
% Change
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Federal Home Loan Bank Advances and Other Borrowings
  
$
229,701
  
  
$
305,458
  
  
 
– 24.8%
  

 Customer Repurchase Agreements
  
 
166,128
  
  
 
118,119
  
  
 
40.6%
  

 Repurchase Agreements with Brokers
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
0.0%
  

 Junior Subordinated Debentures
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
0.0%
  

 Subordinated Debentures
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
0.0%
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
537,686
  
  
$
565,434
  
  
 
– 4.9%
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Capital Resources    The Federal Reserve, the FDIC, and other regulatory
agencies have established capital guidelines for banks and bank holding companies. Risk-based capital guidelines issued by the federal regulatory agencies require banks to meet a minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% and a total risk-based
capital ratio of 8.0%. A minimum requirement of 4.0% Tier 1 leverage capital is also mandated. At December 31, 2011, the Company and the Bank exceeded the minimum requirements for all regulatory capital ratios. See Note 18, “Regulatory
Capital Requirements” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof for more information regarding capital requirements. 
  50 


Table of Contents
Mortgage Banking    The Bank originates residential loans for
both its portfolio and with the intention of selling them in the secondary market. The Bank’s mortgage banking income consists primarily of revenue from premiums received on loans sold with servicing released, origination fees, and gains and
losses on sold mortgages less related commission expense. The gains and losses resulting from the sales of loans with servicing retained are adjusted to recognize the present value of future servicing fee income over the estimated lives of the
related loans. The following table shows the total residential loans that were closed and the amounts which were held in the portfolio and sold or held for sale in the secondary market during the periods indicated: 
Table 16 — Closed Residential Real Estate Loans  
 
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Held in Portfolio
  
$
63,824
  
  
$
63,273
  
  
$
68,320
  

 Sold or Held for Sale in the Secondary Market
  
 
270,427
  
  
 
357,527
  
  
 
353,692
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL CLOSED LOANS
  
$
334,251
  
  
$
420,800
  
  
$
422,012
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Included in the mortgage banking income results is the impact of the Bank’s mortgage servicing
assets. Servicing assets are recognized as separate assets when rights are acquired through sale of loans with servicing rights retained. The principal balance of loans serviced by the Bank on behalf of investors amounted to $229.1 million at
December 31, 2011 and $279.7 million at December 31, 2010. Upon sale, the mortgage servicing asset is established, which represents the then current estimated fair value based on market prices for comparable mortgage servicing contracts,
when available, or alternatively is based on a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The valuation model incorporates assumptions that market participants would use in estimating future net
servicing income, such as the cost to service, the discount rate, an inflation rate, ancillary income, prepayment speeds and default rates and losses. Impairment is determined by stratifying the rights based on predominant characteristics, such as
interest rate, loan type and investor type. Impairment is recognized through a valuation allowance, to the extent that fair value is less than the capitalized amount. If the Company later determines that all or a portion of the impairment no longer
exists, a reduction of the allowance may be recorded as an increase to income. Servicing rights are recorded in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets, are amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated net servicing income,
and are assessed for impairment based on fair value at each reporting date. The following table shows fair value of the servicing rights associated with these loans and the changes for the periods indicated: 
Table 17 — Mortgage Servicing Asset 
 












 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Balance as of January 1,
  
$
1,619
  
 
$
2,195
  

 Additions
  
 
75
  
 
 
77
  

 Amortization
  
 
(547
) 
 
 
(652
) 

 Change in Valuation Allowance
  
 
(49
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31,
  
$
1,098
  
 
$
1,619
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  51 


Table of Contents
Results of Operations  Table 18 — Summary of Results of Operations   












 
  
As of and For theYears Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
 
        2010        

 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Net Income
  
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  

 Diluted Earnings Per Share
  
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  

 Return on Average Assets
  
 
0.96
% 
 
 
0.88
% 

 Return on Average Equity
  
 
9.93
% 
 
 
9.46
% 

 Stockholder’s Equity as % of Assets
  
 
9.44
% 
 
 
9.30
% 
 Net Interest Income    The amount of net interest income is affected by
changes in interest rates and by the volume, mix, and interest rate sensitivity of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  On a fully tax-equivalent basis, net interest income was $168.4 million in 2011, a 2.0% increase from 2010 net interest income of $165.1 million. 
  52 


Table of Contents
The following table presents the Company’s average balances, net interest income,
interest rate spread, and net interest margin for 2011, 2010, and 2009. Nontaxable income from loans and securities is presented on a fully tax-equivalent basis whereby tax-exempt income is adjusted upward by an amount equivalent to the prevailing
income taxes that would have been paid if the income had been fully taxable.  Table 19 —
Average Balance, Interest Earned/Paid & Average Yields   








































 
 
As of and For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
AVERAGEBALANCE
 
 
INTERESTEARNED/PAID
 
 
AVERAGEYIELD 
 
 
AVERAGEBALANCE
 
 
INTERESTEARNED/PAID
 
 
AVERAGEYIELD 
 
 
AVERAGEBALANCE
 
 
INTERESTEARNED/PAID
 
 
AVERAGEYIELD
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Interest-Earning Assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest Earning Deposits with Banks, Federal Funds Sold, and Short Term Investments
 
$
65,053
  
 
$
162
  
 
 
0.25
% 
 
$
132,019
  
 
$
337
  
 
 
0.26
% 
 
$
67,296
  
 
$
290
  
 
 
0.43
% 

 Securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Trading Securities
 
 
8,329
  
 
 
285
  
 
 
3.42
% 
 
 
7,225
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
3.63
% 
 
 
12,126
  
 
 
239
  
 
 
1.97
% 

 Taxable Investment Securities
 
 
540,564
  
 
 
20,041
  
 
 
3.71
% 
 
 
569,069
  
 
 
23,722
  
 
 
4.17
% 
 
 
605,453
  
 
 
28,456
  
 
 
4.70
% 

 Non-Taxable Investment Securities(1)
 
 
7,471
  
 
 
560
  
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
15,877
  
 
 
1,138
  
 
 
7.17
% 
 
 
22,671
  
 
 
1,457
  
 
 
6.43
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Securities
 
 
556,364
  
 
 
20,886
  
 
 
3.75
% 
 
 
592,171
  
 
 
25,122
  
 
 
4.24
% 
 
 
640,250
  
 
 
30,152
  
 
 
4.71
% 

 Loans Held for Sale
 
 
14,646
  
 
 
482
  
 
 
3.29
% 
 
 
16,266
  
 
 
666
  
 
 
4.09
% 
 
 
14,320
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
4.39
% 

 Loans(2)
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
 
 
538,805
  
 
 
22,867
  
 
 
4.24
% 
 
 
427,004
  
 
 
19,457
  
 
 
4.56
% 
 
 
336,776
  
 
 
15,955
  
 
 
4.74
% 

 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
1,792,247
  
 
 
93,604
  
 
 
5.22
% 
 
 
1,646,419
  
 
 
94,217
  
 
 
5.72
% 
 
 
1,418,997
  
 
 
86,016
  
 
 
6.06
% 

 Commercial Construction
 
 
126,083
  
 
 
5,805
  
 
 
4.60
% 
 
 
155,524
  
 
 
7,507
  
 
 
4.83
% 
 
 
193,498
  
 
 
9,502
  
 
 
4.91
% 

 Small Business
 
 
78,851
  
 
 
4,606
  
 
 
5.84
% 
 
 
81,091
  
 
 
4,829
  
 
 
5.96
% 
 
 
85,567
  
 
 
5,143
  
 
 
6.01
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Commercial
 
 
2,535,986
  
 
 
126,882
  
 
 
5.00
% 
 
 
2,310,038
  
 
 
126,010
  
 
 
5.45
% 
 
 
2,034,838
  
 
 
116,616
  
 
 
5.73
% 

 Residential Real Estate
 
 
450,501
  
 
 
20,203
  
 
 
4.48
% 
 
 
525,203
  
 
 
25,235
  
 
 
4.80
% 
 
 
542,758
  
 
 
27,333
  
 
 
5.04
% 

 Residential Construction
 
 
5,685
  
 
 
260
  
 
 
4.57
% 
 
 
6,565
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
5.09
% 
 
 
12,798
  
 
 
805
  
 
 
6.29
% 

 Consumer — Home Equity
 
 
635,695
  
 
 
24,015
  
 
 
3.78
% 
 
 
504,886
  
 
 
19,369
  
 
 
3.84
% 
 
 
447,890
  
 
 
17,523
  
 
 
3.91
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Consumer Real Estate
 
 
1,091,881
  
 
 
44,478
  
 
 
4.07
% 
 
 
1,036,654
  
 
 
44,938
  
 
 
4.33
% 
 
 
1,003,446
  
 
 
45,661
  
 
 
4.55
% 

 Consumer — Other
 
 
53,551
  
 
 
4,171
  
 
 
7.79
% 
 
 
88,077
  
 
 
6,799
  
 
 
7.72
% 
 
 
139,665
  
 
 
10,338
  
 
 
7.40
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Loans
 
 
3,681,418
  
 
 
175,531
  
 
 
4.77
% 
 
 
3,434,769
  
 
 
177,747
  
 
 
5.17
% 
 
 
3,177,949
  
 
 
172,615
  
 
 
5.43
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Interest-Earning Assets
 
$
4,317,481
  
 
$
197,061
  
 
 
4.56
% 
 
$
4,175,225
  
 
$
203,872
  
 
 
4.88
% 
 
$
3,899,815
  
 
$
203,686
  
 
 
5.22
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and Due from Banks
 
 
55,897
  
 



 



 
 
62,103
  
 



 



 
 
65,509
  
 



 




 Federal Home Loan Bank Stock
 
 
35,854
  
 



 



 
 
35,854
  
 



 



 
 
33,135
  
 



 




 Other Assets
 
 
336,617
  
 



 



 
 
316,234
  
 



 



 
 
278,057
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 TOTAL ASSETS
 
$
4,745,849
  
 



 



 
$
4,589,416
  
 



 



 
$
4,276,516
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Interest-Bearing Liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Savings and Interest Checking Accounts
 
$
1,355,478
  
 
$
3,216
  
 
 
0.24
% 
 
$
1,183,247
  
 
$
4,397
  
 
 
0.37
% 
 
$
913,881
  
 
$
4,753
  
 
 
0.52
% 

 Money Market
 
 
728,380
  
 
 
3,050
  
 
 
0.42
% 
 
 
739,264
  
 
 
4,565
  
 
 
0.62
% 
 
 
639,231
  
 
 
6,545
  
 
 
1.02
% 

 Time Certificates of Deposits
 
 
656,486
  
 
 
7,089
  
 
 
1.08
% 
 
 
814,462
  
 
 
11,292
  
 
 
1.39
% 
 
 
921,787
  
 
 
19,865
  
 
 
2.16
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Interest Bearing Deposits
 
 
2,740,344
  
 
 
13,355
  
 
 
0.49
% 
 
 
2,736,973
  
 
 
20,254
  
 
 
0.74
% 
 
 
2,474,899
  
 
 
31,163
  
 
 
1.26
% 

 Borrowings:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Federal Home Loan Bank and Other Borrowings
 
 
284,400
  
 
 
7,199
  
 
 
2.53
% 
 
 
320,953
  
 
 
9,589
  
 
 
2.99
% 
 
 
411,605
  
 
 
11,519
  
 
 
2.80
% 

 Federal Funds Purchased and Assets Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
 
 
193,904
  
 
 
2,284
  
 
 
1.18
% 
 
 
182,467
  
 
 
3,084
  
 
 
1.69
% 
 
 
180,632
  
 
 
3,396
  
 
 
1.88
% 

 Junior Subordinated Debentures
 
 
61,857
  
 
 
3,663
  
 
 
5.92
% 
 
 
61,857
  
 
 
3,666
  
 
 
5.93
% 
 
 
61,857
  
 
 
3,739
  
 
 
6.04
% 

 Subordinated Debt
 
 
30,000
  
 
 
2,171
  
 
 
7.24
% 
 
 
30,000
  
 
 
2,170
  
 
 
7.23
% 
 
 
30,000
  
 
 
2,178
  
 
 
7.26
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Borrowings
 
 
570,161
  
 
 
15,317
  
 
 
2.69
% 
 
 
595,277
  
 
 
18,509
  
 
 
3.11
% 
 
 
684,094
  
 
 
20,832
  
 
 
3.05
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Interest-Bearing Liabilities
 
$
3,310,505
  
 
$
28,672
  
 
 
0.87
% 
 
$
3,332,250
  
 
$
38,763
  
 
 
1.16
% 
 
$
3,158,993
  
 
$
51,995
  
 
 
1.65
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Demand Deposits
 
 
910,701
  
 



 



 
 
773,718
  
 



 



 
 
659,916
  
 



 




 Other Liabilities
 
 
67,221
  
 



 



 
 
58,199
  
 



 



 
 
54,697
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total Liabilities
 
$
4,288,427
  
 



 



 
$
4,164,167
  
 



 



 
$
3,873,606
  
 



 




 Stockholders’ Equity
 
 
457,422
  
 



 



 
 
425,249
  
 



 



 
 
402,910
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
$
4,745,849
  
 



 



 
$
4,589,416
  
 



 



 
$
4,276,516
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 NET INTEREST INCOME(1)
 



 
$
168,389
  
 



 



 
$
165,109
  
 



 



 
$
151,691
  
 





 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 INTEREST RATE SPREAD(3)
 



 



 
 
3.70
% 
 



 



 
 
3.72
% 
 



 



 
 
3.58
% 


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 NET INTEREST MARGIN(4)
 



 



 
 
3.90
% 
 



 



 
 
3.95
% 
 



 



 
 
3.89
% 


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Supplemental Information:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Total Deposits, Including Demand Deposits
 
$
3,651,045
  
 
$
13,355
  
 



 
$
3,510,691
  
 
$
20,254
  
 



 
$
3,134,815
  
 
$
31,163
  
 




 Cost of Total Deposits
 



 



 
 
0.37
% 
 



 



 
 
0.58
% 
 



 



 
 
0.99
% 

 Total Funding Liabilities, Including Demand Deposits
 
$
4,221,206
  
 
$
28,672
  
 



 
$
4,105,968
  
 
$
38,763
  
 



 
$
3,818,909
  
 
$
51,995
  
 




 Cost of Total Funding Liabilities
 



 



 
 
0.68
% 
 



 



 
 
0.94
% 
 



 



 
 
1.36
% 

  53 


Table of Contents
 


(1)
The total amount of adjustment to present interest income and yield on a fully tax-equivalent basis is $1.3 million, $1.1 million and $997,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.   


(2)
Average nonaccruing loans are included in loans.   


(3)
Interest rate spread represents the difference between the weighted average yield on interest-earning assets and the weighted average costs of interest-bearing
liabilities.   


(4)
Net interest margin represents net interest income as a percentage of average interest-earning assets. 
The following table presents certain information on a fully-tax equivalent basis regarding changes in the Company’s interest income
and interest expense for the periods indicated. For each category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, information is provided with respect to changes attributable to (1) changes in rate (change in rate multiplied by
prior year volume), (2) changes in volume (change in volume multiplied by prior year rate) and (3) changes in volume/rate (change in rate multiplied by change in volume) which is allocated to the change due to rate column. 
Table 20 — Volume Rate Analysis 
 








































 
 
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011 Compared To 2010
 
 
2010 Compared To 2009
 
 
2009 Compared To 2008
 

 
 
ChangeDue toRate(1)
 
 
ChangeDue toVolume
 
 
TotalChange
 
 
ChangeDue toRate(1)
 
 
ChangeDue toVolume
 
 
TotalChange
 
 
ChangeDue toRate(1)
 
 
ChangeDue toVolume
 
 
TotalChange
 

 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Income on Interest-Earning Assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest Earning Deposits, Federal Funds Sold and Short Term Investments
 
$
(4
) 
 
$
(171
) 
 
$
(175
) 
 
$
(232
) 
 
$
279
  
 
$
47
  
 
$
(1,396
) 
 
$
1,538
  
 
$
142
  

 Securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Trading Assets
 
 
(17
) 
 
 
40
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
120
  
 
 
(97
) 
 
 
23
  
 
 
(316
) 
 
 
415
  
 
 
99
  

 Taxable Securities
 
 
(2,493
) 
 
 
(1,188
) 
 
 
(3,681
) 
 
 
(3,024
) 
 
 
(1,710
) 
 
 
(4,734
) 
 
 
(1,806
) 
 
 
7,903
  
 
 
6,097
  

 Non-Taxable Securities(2)
 
 
25
  
 
 
(603
) 
 
 
(578
) 
 
 
118
  
 
 
(437
) 
 
 
(319
) 
 
 
28
  
 
 
(1,168
) 
 
 
(1,140
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Securities
 



 



 
 
(4,236
) 
 



 



 
 
(5,030
) 
 



 



 
 
5,056
  

 Loans Held for Sale
 
 
(118
) 
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
(184
) 
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
85
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
(117
) 
 
 
421
  
 
 
304
  

 Loans
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial and Industrial
 
 
(1,684
) 
 
 
5,094
  
 
 
3,410
  
 
 
(773
) 
 
 
4,275
  
 
 
3,502
  
 
 
(3,956
) 
 
 
5,337
  
 
 
1,381
  

 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
(8,958
) 
 
 
8,345
  
 
 
(613
) 
 
 
(5,585
) 
 
 
13,786
  
 
 
8,201
  
 
 
(7,532
) 
 
 
25,896
  
 
 
18,364
  

 Commercial Construction
 
 
(281
) 
 
 
(1,421
) 
 
 
(1,702
) 
 
 
(130
) 
 
 
(1,865
) 
 
 
(1,995
) 
 
 
(1,692
) 
 
 
1,919
  
 
 
227
  

 Small Business
 
 
(90
) 
 
 
(133
) 
 
 
(223
) 
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
(269
) 
 
 
(314
) 
 
 
(919
) 
 
 
291
  
 
 
(628
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Commercial
 



 



 
 
872
  
 



 



 
 
9,394
  
 



 



 
 
19,344
  

 Residential Real Estate
 
 
(1,443
) 
 
 
(3,589
) 
 
 
(5,032
) 
 
 
(1,214
) 
 
 
(884
) 
 
 
(2,098
) 
 
 
(1,141
) 
 
 
7,145
  
 
 
6,004
  

 Residential Construction
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(45
) 
 
 
(74
) 
 
 
(79
) 
 
 
(392
) 
 
 
(471
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
207
  
 
 
174
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
 
 
(372
) 
 
 
5,018
  
 
 
4,646
  
 
 
(384
) 
 
 
2,230
  
 
 
1,846
  
 
 
(5,439
) 
 
 
4,105
  
 
 
(1,334
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Consumer Real Estate
 



 



 
 
(460
) 
 



 



 
 
(723
) 
 



 



 
 
4,844
  

 Total Other Consumer
 
 
37
  
 
 
(2,665
) 
 
 
(2,628
) 
 
 
280
  
 
 
(3,819
) 
 
 
(3,539
) 
 
 
366
  
 
 
(3,186
) 
 
 
(2,820
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loans(2)(3)
 



 



 
 
(2,216
) 
 



 



 
 
5,132
  
 



 



 
 
21,368
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total
 



 



 
$
(6,811
) 
 



 



 
$
186
  
 



 



 
$
26,870
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Expense of Interest-Bearing Liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Savings and Interest Checking Accounts
 
$
(1,821
) 
 
$
640
  
 
$
(1,181
) 
 
$
(1,757
) 
 
$
1,401
  
 
$
(356
) 
 
$
(3,517
) 
 
$
2,041
  
 
$
(1,476
) 

 Money Market
 
 
(1,448
) 
 
 
(67
) 
 
 
(1,515
) 
 
 
(3,004
) 
 
 
1,024
  
 
 
(1,980
) 
 
 
(5,888
) 
 
 
3,251
  
 
 
(2,637
) 

 Time Certificates of Deposits
 
 
(2,013
) 
 
 
(2,190
) 
 
 
(4,203
) 
 
 
(6,260
) 
 
 
(2,313
) 
 
 
(8,573
) 
 
 
(9,359
) 
 
 
5,739
  
 
 
(3,620
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Interest-Bearing Deposits
 



 



 
 
(6,899
) 
 



 



 
 
(10,909
) 
 
 
(18,764
) 
 
 
11,031
  
 
 
(7,733
) 

 Borrowings:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Federal Home Loan Bank and Other Borrowings
 
 
(1,298
) 
 
 
(1,092
) 
 
 
(2,390
) 
 
 
641
  
 
 
(2,571
) 
 
 
(1,930
) 
 
 
(2,578
) 
 
 
3,322
  
 
 
744
  

 Federal Funds Purchased and Assets Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
 
 
(993
) 
 
 
193
  
 
 
(800
) 
 
 
(346
) 
 
 
34
  
 
 
(312
) 
 
 
(2,058
) 
 
 
791
  
 
 
(1,267
) 

 Junior Subordinated Debentures
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(73
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(73
) 
 
 
(211
) 
 
 
108
  
 
 
(103
) 

 Subordinated Debt
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
17
  
 
 
1,411
  
 
 
1,428
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Borrowings
 



 



 
 
(3,192
) 
 



 



 
 
(2,323
) 
 



 



 
 
802
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total
 



 



 
$
(10,091
) 
 



 



 
$
(13,232
) 
 



 



 
$
(6,931
) 


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 CHANGE IN NET INTEREST INCOME
 



 



 
$
3,280
  
 



 



 
$
13,418
  
 



 



 
$
33,801
  


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

  54 


Table of Contents
 


(1)
The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of the
change attributable to the variances in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance has been allocated to the rate variances. 
 


(2)
The total amount of adjustment to present interest income and yield on a fully tax-equivalent basis is $1.3 million, $1.1 million, and $997,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.   


(3)
Loans include portfolio loans and nonaccrual loans, however unpaid interest on nonaccrual loans has not been included for purposes of determining interest income.
 The increase in net interest income is driven mainly by reductions in the Company’s overall cost of
funding, stemming from the Company’s strategy to create a funding mix that focuses on core deposits. Although average loan balances (including held for sale) increased, a reduction in loan yields, as well as a decline in the size of and yield
on the securities portfolio, reduced overall growth in interest income.  Provision For Loan
Losses    The provision for loan losses represents the charge to expense that is required to maintain an adequate level of allowance for loan losses. The provision for loan losses totaled $11.5 million in 2011, compared with
$18.7 million in 2010, a decrease of $7.2 million. The Company’s allowance for loan losses, as a percentage of total loans, was 1.27%, as compared to 1.30% at December 31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, net loan
charge-offs totaled $9.5 million, a decrease of $5.3 million from the prior year.  The decrease in the amount of the provision
for loan losses is the result of improvements in certain asset quality measures, offset by shifts in the composition of loan portfolio mix, as certain portfolios require different levels of allowance allocation based upon the risks associated with
each portfolio, as well as portfolio growth of outstanding balances. While the total loan portfolio increased by 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to 4.7% for 2010, growth among the commercial components of 8.3% continued
to outpace the consumer lending components which increased 3.3%. These lending categories each exhibit different credit risk characteristics.  Although the national economic environment remains challenging, regional and local general economic conditions continued to show gradual improvement during 2011, as measured in terms of employment levels,
statewide economic activity, and other regional economic indicators. Local residential real estate market fundamentals were mixed during 2011, characterized by a higher level of home sales compared to the same period in 2010 but lower median sales
prices. Additionally, foreclosure activity remained elevated during 2011. Regional commercial real estate market conditions were mixed, with some areas experiencing a continued recovery, and others still exhibiting higher vacancy rates and negative
absorption. Leading economic indicators signal continued economic improvement through the first part of 2012, however uncertainty persists and economic growth is expected to be slow. 
Management’s periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses considers past loan loss experience, known and
inherent risks in the loan portfolio, adverse situations which may affect the borrowers’ ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, if any, and current and prospective economic conditions. Substantial portions of the
Bank’s loans are secured by real estate in Massachusetts. Accordingly, the ultimate collectability of a substantial portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is susceptible to changes in property values within the state. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Noninterest Income    The following table sets forth information
regarding noninterest income for the periods shown:  Table 21 — Noninterest Income
  




















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Amount
 
 
%
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts
  
$
16,628
  
 
$
13,624
  
 
$
3,004
  
 
 
22.0
% 

 Interchange and ATM Fees
  
 
7,733
  
 
 
5,084
  
 
 
2,649
  
 
 
52.1
% 

 Investment Management
  
 
13,532
  
 
 
11,723
  
 
 
1,809
  
 
 
15.4
% 

 Mortgage Banking
  
 
4,197
  
 
 
5,041
  
 
 
(844
) 
 
 
–16.7
% 

 Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance
  
 
3,170
  
 
 
3,192
  
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
–0.7
% 

 Net Gain/(Loss) on Sales of Securities
  
 
723
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
265
  
 
 
57.9
% 

 Gross Change on Write-Down of Certain Investments to Fair Value
  
 
53
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
(444
) 
 
 
–89.3
% 

 Less: Portion of OTTI Recognized in OCI
  
 
(296
) 
 
 
(831
) 
 
 
535
  
 
 
–64.4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss on Write-Down of Certain Investments to Fair Value
  
 
(243
) 
 
 
(334
) 
 
 
91
  
 
 
–27.2
% 

 Other Noninterest Income
  
 
6,960
  
 
 
8,118
  
 
 
(1,158
) 
 
 
–14.3
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
52,700
  
 
$
46,906
  
 
$
5,794
  
 
 
12.4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Noninterest income, which is generated by deposit account service charges, interchange and ATM fees,
investment management services, mortgage banking activities, cash surrender value of life insurance, and miscellaneous other sources, amounted to $52.7 million in 2011, a $5.8 million, or 12.4%, increase from the prior year. The primary reasons for
the variances in the noninterest income category shown in the preceding table are noted below:  Service charges on deposit
accounts, which represented 31.6% of total noninterest income in 2011, increased from $13.6 million in 2010 to $16.6 million in 2011, mainly due to increased customer utilization of overdraft privileges on checking accounts. 
Interchange and ATM fees increased $2.6 million, or 52.1%, the increase was partially due to a reclassification of interchange income
that was previously recorded as a net expense in other noninterest expense amounting to $1.5 million, as well as increased debit card usage by the Bank’s customers. The debit card usage has increased due to marketing promotions related to a
debit card point program.  Investment management revenue increased by $1.8 million, or 15.4%, for the year ended
December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010. Assets under administration at December 31, 2011 were $1.7 billion, an increase of $79.9 million, or 5.1%, as compared to December 31, 2010. This increase is largely due to
strong sales results and general market appreciation.  Mortgage banking revenue of $4.2 million in 2011, decreased by 16.7%
from the $5.0 million recorded in 2010, reflective of a lower volume of mortgage originations due to a decline in refinancing activity experienced in 2011 as compared to the prior year. 
A $723,000 net gain on the sale of securities was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to a $458,000 net gain
on the sale of securities for the year ended December 31, 2010.  The Company recorded total credit-related impairment
charges on certain pooled trust preferred securities and one private mortgage-backed security of $243,000 and $334,000, pre-tax, for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Other noninterest income decreased by $1.2 million, or 14.3%, for the year ended
December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, largely attributable to decreases in income from the Company’s loan level derivatives program and the change in the fair value of the Company’s trading securities. 
Noninterest Expense    The following table sets forth information regarding noninterest expense for the
periods shown:  Table 22 — Noninterest Expense 
 




















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
Change
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
Amount
 
 
%
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Salaries and Employee Benefits
  
$
81,275
  
  
$
76,983
  
  
$
4,292
  
 
 
5.6
% 

 Occupancy and Equipment Expenses
  
 
16,916
  
  
 
16,011
  
  
 
905
  
 
 
5.7
% 

 Data Processing and Facilities Management
  
 
4,891
  
  
 
5,773
  
  
 
(882
) 
 
 
–15.3
% 

 Advertising
  
 
3,876
  
  
 
2,171
  
  
 
1,705
  
 
 
78.5
% 

 FDIC Assessment
  
 
3,496
  
  
 
5,247
  
  
 
(1,751
) 
 
 
–33.4
% 

 Consulting
  
 
2,660
  
  
 
2,523
  
  
 
137
  
 
 
5.4
% 

 Legal Fees
  
 
2,262
  
  
 
3,277
  
  
 
(1,015
) 
 
 
–31.0
% 

 Telecommunications
  
 
2,092
  
  
 
2,101
  
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
–0.4
% 

 Prepayment Fees on Borrowings
  
 
757
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
757
  
 
 
100.0
% 

 Other Noninterest Expense
  
 
27,488
  
  
 
25,659
  
  
 
1,829
  
 
 
7.1
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
145,713
  
  
$
139,745
  
  
$
5,968
  
 
 
4.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Noninterest expense increased by $6.0 million, or 4.3%, during the year ended December 31, 2011 as
compared to the same period in 2010. The primary reasons for the variances in the noninterest expense category shown in the preceding table are noted below:  Salaries and employee benefits increased by $4.3 million, or 5.6%, for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, attributable to incremental hiring, expansion of the
commercial banking business to support growth initiatives, higher levels of performance based incentive compensation and other benefit expenses.  Occupancy and equipment expenses increased by $905,000, or 5.7% due to increases in rent of leased property, snow removal and impairment on fixed assets associated with branch closings. 
Advertising increased by $1.7 million, or 78.5%, due to an increase in marketing efforts to promote the Bank’s growth, largely in
the consumer categories of loans and deposits.  FDIC assessment decreased by $1.8 million, or 33.4% due to a lower assessment
rate that was effective starting in the second quarter 2011.  During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company prepaid $28.0
million of borrowings, resulting in a prepayment penalty of $757,000, pre-tax.  Total other noninterest expense increased by
$1.8 million, or 7.1%, for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010. The increase is primarily attributable to the increases in other real estate owned valuation write-offs of $1.2 million and increases in
foreclosure expenses of $800,000.  Income Taxes    The tax effect of all income and expense
transactions is recognized by the Company in each year’s consolidated statements of income, regardless of the year in which the transactions are reported for 
  57 


Table of Contents

income tax purposes. The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s tax provision and applicable tax rates for the periods indicated: 
Table 23 — Tax Provision and Applicable Tax Rates 
 
















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Combined Federal and State Income Tax Provisions
  
$
17,148
  
 
$
12,227
  
 
$
6,747
  

 Effective Income Tax Rates
  
 
27.4
% 
 
 
23.3
% 
 
 
22.7
% 

 Blended Federal and State Statutory Tax Rate
  
 
41.2
% 
 
 
41.5
% 
 
 
41.8
% 
 The lower effective income tax rates are attributable to certain tax preference assets such as BOLI and
tax exempt bonds as well as federal tax credits recognized, primarily in connection with the New Markets Tax Credit (“NMTC”) program. Effective July 1, 2008 Massachusetts state legislation was passed which enacted corporate tax
reform. As a result of that legislation, the state tax rate is being reduced by 1.5% over a three year period which began on January 1, 2010 and will result in a blended statutory rate of 40.9% in 2012. The increase in the Company’s
effective tax rate in 2011 was primarily attributable to a reduction in federal tax credits recognized by the Company in connection with its NMTC program as well as an increase in nontax exempt income. 
The Company has several wholly-owned community development entity subsidiaries which are described in the “General” section
of Item 1 Business. These entities provide financing and investment capital for low income communities.  As of
December 31, 2011, the Company has been awarded a total of $125.0 million in tax credit allocation authority under the Federal New Markets Tax Credit Program. Tax credits are eligible to be recognized over a seven year period totaling 39.0% of
the total award, as capital is invested into a subsidiary which will lend to qualifying businesses in low income communities. Accordingly, the Company has received and continues to receive eligible aggregated tax credits totaling $48.8 million. The
following table details the tax credit recognition by year associated with this program:  Table
24 — New Markets Tax Credit Recognition Schedule   








































 Investment
 
  
2004 - 2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2012
 
  
2013
 
  
2014
 
  
2015
 
  
2016
 
  
TotalCredits
 

 
  
 
 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2004
  
$
15 M
  
  
$
5,850
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
5,850
  

 2005
  
 
15 M
  
  
 
4,950
  
  
 
900
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5,850
  

 2007
  
 
38.2 M
  
  
 
8,022
  
  
 
2,292
  
  
 
2,292
  
  
 
2,292
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
14,898
  

 2008
  
 
6.8 M
  
  
 
1,020
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,652
  

 2009
  
 
10 M
  
  
 
1,000
  
  
 
500
  
  
 
600
  
  
 
600
  
  
 
600
  
  
 
600
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,900
  

 2010
  
 
40 M
  
  
 
2,000
  
  
 
2,000
  
  
 
2,000
  
  
 
2,400
  
  
 
2,400
  
  
 
2,400
  
  
 
2,400
  
  
 
15,600
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
125 M
  
  
$
22,842
  
  
$
6,100
  
  
$
5,300
  
  
$
5,700
  
  
$
3,408
  
  
$
3,000
  
  
$
2,400
  
  
$
48,750
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in future
income tax returns, for which a financial statement tax benefit has already been recognized. The realization of the net deferred tax asset generally depends upon future levels of taxable income and the existence of prior years’ taxable income
to which “carry-back” refund claims could be made. If current available information raises doubt as to the realization of the deferred tax assets, a valuation allowance is established. Deferred tax assets are measured using enacted tax
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in enacted tax rates on the deferred tax assets is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date. The Company had no recorded tax valuation allowance as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
Dividends    The Company declared cash dividends of $0.76 per common share in 2011 and $0.72 in 2010. The 2011
and 2010 ratio of dividends paid to earnings was 35.88% and 37.93%, respectively. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Since substantially all of the funds available for the payment of dividends are derived from
the Bank, future dividends of the Company will depend on the earnings of the Bank, its financial condition, its need for funds, applicable governmental policies and regulations, and other such matters as the Board of Directors deem appropriate.
 Comparison of 2010 vs. 2009    The Company’s total assets were $4.7 billion, which represents
an increase of $213.7 million, or 4.8%, at December 31, 2010 compared to December 31, 2009. Total average assets were $4.6 billion and $4.3 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total securities of $587.8 million, at
December 31, 2010, decreased $20.4 million compared to the $608.2 million reported on December 31, 2009. Total loans of $3.6 billion, at December 31, 2010 increased $160.2 million compared to the prior year ended December 31,
2009. Total deposits of $3.6 billion at December 31, 2010 reflected an increase of $252.5 million, or 7.5%, compared to December 31, 2009. Borrowings decreased by $82.0 million, or 12.7%, during the year ended December 31, 2010.
Stockholders’ equity increased by $23.8 million in 2010.  Net income available to common shareholders for 2010 was $40.2
million, or $1.90 per diluted share, compared to $17.3 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, in 2009. Return on average assets and return on average common equity were 0.88% and 9.46%, respectively, for 2010 and 0.40% and 4.29%, respectively, for
2009.  On a fully tax-equivalent basis, net interest income was $165.1 million in 2010, an 8.8% increase from 2009 net
interest income of $151.7 million. The increase in net interest income was driven mainly by reductions in the Company’s overall cost of funding, stemming from the Company’s strategy to create a funding mix that focuses on core deposits.
Although average loan balances increased by $256.8 million, a reduction in loan yields, as well as a decline in the size of and yield on the securities portfolio, reduced overall growth in interest income. 
Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased to $38.8 million from the $52.0 million recorded in 2009, a decrease
of $13.2 million, or 25.4%. The total cost of funds decreased 42 basis points to 0.94% for 2010 as compared to 1.36% for 2009. Average interest-bearing deposits increased $262.1 million, or 10.6%, over the prior year while the cost of these deposits
decreased from 1.26% in 2009 to 0.74% in 2010 primarily attributable to the active management of deposit costs.  Average
borrowings decreased in 2010 by $88.8 million, or 13.0%, from the 2009 average balance, while the average cost of borrowings increased to 3.11% from 3.05%.  The provision for loan losses totaled $18.7 million in 2010, compared with $17.3 million in 2009, an increase of $1.3 million. The Company’s allowance for loan losses, as a percentage of total loans,
was 1.30%, as compared to 1.25% at December 31, 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010, net loan charge-offs totaled $14.8 million, an increase of $2.7 million from the prior year. 
The increase in the amount of the provision for loan losses is the result of a combination of factors including: shifting growth rates
among various components of the Bank’s loan portfolio with differing facets of risk; higher levels of net loan charge-offs; and continued uncertainty with respect to the economic environment. While the total loan portfolio increased by 4.7% for
the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to 2.1% organic growth, excluding the impact of acquisition, for 2009, growth among the commercial components of 8.2% continued to outpace the consumer lending components which decreased 2.0%. These
lending categories each exhibit different credit risk characteristics.  Noninterest income, which is generated by deposit
account service charges, investment management services, mortgage banking activities, BOLI, and miscellaneous other sources, amounted to $46.9 million in 2010, a $8.7 million, or 22.8%, increase from the prior year. 
Service charges on deposit accounts and interchange and ATM fees, which represented 39.9% of total noninterest income in 2010, increased
from $17.1 million in 2009 to $18.7 million in 2010, mainly due to service charges related to debit card usage and overdraft privileges on checking accounts. 
  59 


Table of Contents
Investment management revenue increased by $1.7 million, or 16.7%, for the year ended
December 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009. Assets under administration at December 31, 2010 were $1.6 billion, an increase of $295.8 million, or 23.2%, as compared to December 31, 2009. This increase is largely due to
strong sales results and general market appreciation.  Mortgage banking revenue of $5.0 million in 2010, increased by 3.8%
from the $4.9 million recorded in 2009. At December 31, 2010 the mortgage servicing rights asset totaled $1.6 million, or 0.63% of the serviced loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009 the mortgage servicing rights asset totaled $2.2 million,
or 0.63%, of the serviced loan portfolio.  A $458,000 net gain on the sale of securities was recorded for the year ended
December 31, 2010 as compared to a $1.4 million net gain on the sale of securities for the year ended December 31, 2009.  The Company recorded total credit related impairment charges on certain pooled trust preferred securities and two private mortgage-backed security of $334,000 and $9.0 million, for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.  Other noninterest income increased by $1.0 million, or
14.1%, for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, largely attributable to increases in income from the Company’s loan level derivatives program. 
Noninterest expense decreased by $2.1 million, or 1.5%, during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in
2009. Excluding the merger and acquisition expense, associated with the Ben Franklin acquisition in 2009, the primary reason for the increase in noninterest expense by category is the annualized impact of the Ben Franklin acquisition, other variance
explanations are noted below:  Salaries and employee benefits increased by $8.7 million, or 12.8%, for the year ended
December 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, attributable to the addition of employees as a result of Ben Franklin acquisition in April 2009, as well as higher levels of performance based incentive compensation, pension expense,
and medical insurance increases.  There were no merger and acquisition expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Merger and acquisition related expenditures totaled $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, associated with the Ben Franklin acquisition in April 2009.  Total other noninterest expense increased by $3.0 million, or 9.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009. The increase is primarily attributable to the
increases in loan level derivative expense of $945,000, computer software write-off of $560,000, consultant fees of $572,000, and loan work-out costs of $427,000, offset by decreases in telephone expense of $534,000. 
Risk Management  The Company’s Board of Directors and Executive Management have identified significant risk categories which affect the Company. The risk categories include: credit risk, operations risk, compliance
risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, market risk and liquidity risk. The Board of Directors has approved a Risk Management Policy that addresses each category of risk. The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Technology and
Operations Officer, Executive Vice President of Commercial Lending and other members of management provide regular reports to the Board of Directors, identifying key risk issues and plans to address these issues. The Board of Directors will ensure
the level of risk is within limits established by both the Risk Management Policy and other previously approved policies.  The
Asset/Liability Management Committee (“ALCO”), whose members are comprised of the Bank’s senior management, develop procedures consistent with policies established by the Board of Directors, which monitor and coordinate the
Bank’s interest rate sensitivity and the sources, uses, and pricing of funds. This 
  60 


Table of Contents

committee also monitors and manages, among other things, the interest rate sensitivity of the balance sheet, the composition of the securities portfolio, funding needs and sources, and the
liquidity position. All of these factors, as well as projected asset growth, current and potential pricing actions, competitive influences, national monetary and fiscal policy, and the regional economic environment are considered in the
asset/liability management process. In addition, the Bank engages an independent consultant to render advice with respect to asset and liability management strategy.  Credit Risk    Credit risk primarily represents the possibility that customers may not repay loans according to their terms due to a decline in their credit quality. In some
cases, the collateral securing the payment of the loans may be sufficient to assure repayment, but in other cases the Company may experience significant credit losses which could have an adverse effect on its operating results. The Company makes
various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of its loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of loans. For further discussion
regarding the credit risk and the credit quality of the Company’s loan portfolio, see Note 4, “Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Credit Quality” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8
hereof.  Operations Risk    Operations risk is the risk of loss due to human behavior, inadequate
or failed internal systems and controls, and external influences such as market conditions, fraudulent activities, disasters and security risks. The Company continuously strives to strengthen its system of internal controls, operating processes and
employee awareness. The Bank has an Operations Risk Management Committee that meets monthly and reports to the Board quarterly or more frequently if events occur that warrant reporting to the Board more frequently. The committee is chaired by the
Chief Technology and Operations Officer and members of the Committee include representatives from Audit, Finance, Technology, Compliance, Information Security and periodic attendance from business units throughout the organization. An operations
risk management dashboard is update quarterly and reviewed with the Board.  Compliance
Risk    Compliance risk represents the risk of regulatory sanctions or financial loss resulting from the Company’s failure to comply with rules and regulations issued by the various banking agencies, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, and the NASDAQ Stock Market, and standards of good banking practice. Activities which may expose the Company to compliance risk include, but are not limited to, those dealing with the prevention of money laundering, privacy
and data protection, adherence to all applicable laws and regulations, community reinvestment initiatives and employment and tax matters. Compliance risk is mitigated through the use of written policies and procedures, training of staff, and
monitoring of activities for adherence to those procedures.  Strategic and Reputation
Risk    Strategic and reputation risk represent the risk of loss due to impairment of reputation, failure to fully develop and execute business plans, failure to assess current and new opportunities in business, markets and
products. Mitigation of strategic and/or reputational risk is achieved through robust annual strategic planning and frequent executive strategic reviews, ongoing competitive and technological observation, rigorous assessment processes of new
product, new branch, and new business initiatives, adherence to ethical standards and a philosophy of customer advocacy, a structured process of customer complaint resolution, and ongoing reputational monitoring and management tools. 
Market Risk    Market risk is the sensitivity of income to changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates,
commodity prices and other market-driven rates or prices. Interest rate sensitivity is the most significant market risk to which the Company is exposed.  Interest rate risk is the sensitivity of income to changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates, as well as fluctuations in the level and duration of assets and liabilities, affect net interest
income, the Company’s primary source of revenue. Interest rate risk arises directly from the Company’s core banking activities. In addition to directly impacting net interest income, changes in the level of interest rates can also affect
the amount of loans originated, the timing of cash flows on loans and securities, and the fair value of securities and derivatives, as well as other effects. 
  61 


Table of Contents
The primary goal of interest rate risk management is to control this risk within limits
approved by the Board of Directors. These limits reflect the Company’s tolerance for interest rate risk over both short-term and long-term horizons. The Company attempts to control interest rate risk by identifying, quantifying, and where
appropriate, hedging its exposure. If assets and liabilities do not re-price simultaneously and in equal volume, the potential for interest rate exposure exists. It is management’s objective to maintain stability in the growth of net interest
income through the maintenance of an appropriate mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and, when necessary, within prudent limits, through the use of off-balance sheet hedging instruments such as interest rate swaps, floors
and caps.  The Company quantifies its interest rate exposures using net interest income simulation models, as well as simpler
gap analysis, and Economic Value of Equity analysis. Key assumptions in these simulation analyses relate to behavior of interest rates and behavior of the Company’s deposit and loan customers. The most material assumptions relate to the
prepayment of mortgage assets (including mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities) and the life and sensitivity of nonmaturity deposits (e.g. DDA, NOW, savings and money market). In the case of prepayment of mortgage assets, assumptions are
derived from published dealer median prepayment estimates for comparable mortgage loans. The risk of prepayment tends to increase when interest rates fall. Since future prepayment behavior of loan customers is uncertain, the resultant interest rate
sensitivity of loan assets cannot be determined exactly.  The Company’s policy on interest-rate risk simulation specifies
that if interest rates were to shift gradually up or down 200 basis points, estimated net interest income for the subsequent 12 months should decline by less than 6.0%. Given the unusually low rate environment at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the
Company also assumed a 100 basis point decline in interest rates, for certain points of the yield curve, in addition to the normal 200 basis point increase in rates. The Company also reviews numerous other scenarios, such as the 500 basis point
increasing rate scenario. This scenario assumes a flattening yield curve where short-term rates move up by 500 basis points while longer term rates increase less dramatically. The following table sets forth the estimated effects on the
Company’s net interest income over a 12-month period following the indicated dates in the event of the designated increases or decreases in market interest rates:  Table 25 — Interest Rate Sensitivity   








 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,

 
  
            2011       
     
  
            2010       
     

 200 Basis Point Rate Increase
  
+2.6%
  
+1.1%

 100 Basis Point Rate Decrease
  
-0.1%
  
+0.4%

 500 Basis Point Rate Increase Flattening Curve
  
+3.2%
  
+1.1%
 It should be emphasized, however, that the results are dependent on material assumptions such as those
discussed above. For instance, asymmetrical rate behavior can have a material impact on the simulation results. If competition for deposits forced the Company to raise rates on those liabilities quicker than is assumed in the simulation analysis
without a corresponding increase in asset yields, net interest income may be negatively impacted. Alternatively, if the Company is able to lag increases in deposit rates as loans re-price upward, net interest income would be positively impacted.
 The Company’s policy on interest rate risk simulation specifies that estimated net interest income for the subsequent 12
months for all simulations should decline by less than 10.0%. The Company was well within policy limits at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The most significant factors affecting market risk exposure of the Company’s net interest income during
2011 were (i) the shape of the U.S. Government securities and interest rate swap yield curve, (ii) the level of U.S. prime interest rate and LIBOR rates, and (iii) the level of interest rates being offered on long-term fixed rate
loans.  The Company manages the interest rate risk inherent in both its loan and borrowing portfolios by utilizing interest
rate swap agreements and interest rate caps and floors. An interest rate swap is an agreement whereby 
  62 


Table of Contents

one party agrees to pay a floating rate of interest on a notional principal amount in exchange for receiving a fixed rate of interest on the same notional amount for a predetermined period of
time from a second party. Interest rate caps and floors are agreements whereby one party agrees to pay a floating rate of interest on a notional principal amount for a predetermined period of time to a second party if certain market interest rate
thresholds are realized. The amounts relating to the notional principal amount are not actually exchanged. See Note 12, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8
hereof for additional information regarding the Company’s Derivative Financial Instruments.  The Company manages the
interest rate risk inherent in its mortgage banking operations by entering into forward sales contracts. An increase in market interest rates between the time the Company commits to terms on a loan and the time the Company ultimately sells the loan
in the secondary market will have the effect of reducing the gain (or increasing the loss) the Company records on the sale. The Company attempts to mitigate this risk by entering into forward sales commitments in amounts sufficient to cover all
closed loans and interest rate-locked loan commitments.  The Company’s earnings are not directly or materially impacted
by movements in foreign currency rates or commodity prices. Movements in equity prices may have a modest impact on earnings by affecting the volume of activity or the amount of fees from investment-related business lines, as well as changes in the
fair value of trading securities. Additionally, the Company’s trading operations are limited to the funds held for the purpose of funding an executive nonqualified supplementary retirement plan managed by the Company’s investment
management group and a community development mutual fund investment. (See Note 3, “Securities” within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof). 
Liquidity Risk    Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not have the ability to generate adequate
amounts of cash in the most economical way for the institution to meet its ongoing obligations to pay deposit withdrawals, service borrowings, and to fund loans commitments. The Company’s primary sources of funds are deposits, borrowings, and
the amortization, prepayment and maturities of loans and securities. The Bank utilizes its extensive branch network to access retail customers who provide a stable base of in-market core deposits. These funds are principally comprised of demand
deposits, interest checking accounts, savings accounts, and money market accounts. Deposit levels are greatly influenced by interest rates, economic conditions, and competitive factors. 
The Bank is careful to increase deposits without adversely impacting the weighted average cost of those funds. Accordingly, management
has implemented funding strategies that include FHLB advances, Federal Reserve Bank borrowing capacity and repurchase agreement lines. These nondeposit funds are also viewed as a contingent source of liquidity and, when profitable lending and
investment opportunities exist, access to such funds provides a means to grow the balance sheet.  The Company actively manages
its liquidity position under the direction of the Asset/ Liability Committee (ALCO). The Company’s primary measure of liquidity is the Basic Surplus/Deficit as a percentage of assets. This ratio, which is an analysis of the relationship between
liquid assets and short-term liabilities relative to total assets, was well within policy limits at December 31, 2011. The Basic Surplus measure is affected primarily by changes in deposits, securities and short-term investments, loans and
borrowings. An increase in deposits, without a corresponding increase in nonliquid assets, will improve the Basic Surplus measure, whereas, an increase in loans, with no increase in deposits, will decrease the measure. Other factors affecting the
Basic Surplus measure include collateral requirements at the FHLB, changes in the securities portfolio, and the mix of deposits.  As part of a prudent liquidity risk management practice, the Company maintains various liquidity sources, some of which are only accessed on a contingency basis. 
Borrowing capacity at the FHLB and the Federal Reserve is impacted by the amount and type of assets available to be pledged. For example,
a prime, one-to-four family, residential loan, may provide 85 cents of borrowing capacity for every $1.00 pledged, whereas, a commercial loan may only provide 50 cents or less. As a result, the Company’s strategic lending decisions can also
affect its liquidity position. 
  63 


Table of Contents
The Company can raise additional liquidity through the issuance of equity or unsecured debt
privately or publicly. Additionally, the Company is able to enter into additional repurchase agreements or acquire brokered deposits at its discretion. The availability and cost of equity or debt on an unsecured basis is dependent on many factors.
Some factors that will impact this source of liquidity are the Company’s financial position, the market environment, and the Company’s credit rating. As such, the Company is careful to monitor the various factors that could impact its
ability to raise liquidity through these channels.  The table below shows current and unused liquidity capacity from various
sources as of December 31, 2011 and 2010:  Table 26 — Sources of Liquidity
  




















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
Additional
 
 
 
 
  
Additional
 

 
  
Outstandings
 
  
Borrowing Capacity
 
 
Outstandings
 
  
Borrowing Capacity
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston
  
$
229,701
  
  
$
526,556
  
 
$
302,414
  
  
$
375,430
  

 Federal Reserve Bank of Boston
  
 
—
  
  
 
618,787
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
630,820
  

 Unpledged Securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
83,791
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
233,568
  

 Customer Repurchase Agreements
  
 
166,128
  
  
 
—
(1) 
 
 
118,119
  
  
 
—
(1) 

 Repurchase Agreements with Major Brokerage Firms
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
—
(1) 
 
 
50,000
  
  
 
—
(1) 

 Junior Subordinated Debentures
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
—
(1) 
 
 
61,857
  
  
 
—
(1) 

 Subordinated Debt
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
—
(1) 
 
 
30,000
  
  
 
—
(1) 

 Brokered Deposits(2)
  
 
78,965
  
  
 
—
(1) 
 
 
13,642
  
  
 
—
(1) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
700,442
  
  
$
1,145,343
  
 
$
809,600
  
  
$
1,006,250
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The additional borrowing capacity has not been assessed for these categories. 
 


(2)
Inclusive of $55.2 million and $13.6 million of brokered deposits acquired through participation in the CDARS program as of December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.  In addition to policies used for managing operational liquidity, the Board of Directors and the
Asset/Liability Committee of the Bank recognize the need to establish reasonable guidelines for managing through an environment of heightened liquidity risk. Catalysts for elevated liquidity risk can be Bank-specific issues and/or systemic
industry-wide events. It is therefore, the responsibility of the Board and ALCO to institute systems and controls to provide advanced detection of potentially significant funding shortages, establish methods for assessing and monitoring risk levels,
and institute prompt responses that may alleviate/circumvent a potential liquidity crisis. As such, the Board of Directors and the ALCO have put a Liquidity Contingency Plan in place. The overall goal of this plan is to provide a framework for the
Bank to help detect liquidity problems promptly and appropriately address potential liquidity problems in a timely manner. In a period of perceived heightened liquidity risk, the Liquidity Contingency Plan provides for the establishment of a
Liquidity Crisis Task Force. The Liquidity Crisis Task Force is responsible for monitoring the potential for a liquidity crisis and for establishing and executing an appropriate response.  Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingencies, and Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments  The Company has entered into contractual obligations, commitments, and off-balance sheet financial instruments. The following tables summarize the Company’s contractual obligations, other
commitments, contingencies, and off-balance sheet financial instruments at December 31, 2011 Table 27 — Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingencies, and Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments by Maturity 
  64 


Table of Contents
Table 27 — Contractual Obligations, Commitments,
Contingencies, and Off-Balance Sheet  Financial Instruments by Maturity 
 
























 
  
Payments Due — By Period
 

 Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies
  
Total
 
  
Less thanOne Year
 
  
One toThree Years
 
  
Four toFive Years
 
  
AfterFive Years
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 FHLB advances(1)
  
$
229,701
  
  
$
190,091
  
  
$
5,233
  
  
$
3,274
  
  
$
31,103
  

 Junior subordinated debentures(1)
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
61,857
  

 Subordinated debt
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
30,000
  

 Lease obligations
  
 
58,940
  
  
 
6,948
  
  
 
13,306
  
  
 
12,682
  
  
 
26,004
  

 Data processing and core systems
  
 
11,921
  
  
 
4,622
  
  
 
5,231
  
  
 
2,068
  
  
 
—
  

 Other vendor contracts
  
 
1,657
  
  
 
1,551
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Retirement benefit obligations(2)
  
 
34,452
  
  
 
343
  
  
 
704
  
  
 
902
  
  
 
32,503
  

 Other
  



  



  



  



  




 Securities sold under repurchase agreements
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
—
  

 Customer repurchase agreements
  
 
166,128
  
  
 
166,128
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other borrowings
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
  
$
644,656
  
  
$
369,683
  
  
$
24,580
  
  
$
68,926
  
  
$
181,467
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
Amount of Commitment Expiring — By Period
 

 Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments
  
Total
 
  
Less thanOne Year
 
  
One toThree Years
 
  
Four toFive Years
 
  
AfterFive Years
 

 Lines of credit
  
$
574,072
  
  
$
143,111
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
430,961
  

 Standby letters of credit
  
 
15,705
  
  
 
15,705
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Other loan commitments
  
 
716,531
  
  
 
519,783
  
  
 
108,209
  
  
 
25,110
  
  
 
63,429
  

 Forward commitments to sell loans
  
 
58,758
  
  
 
58,758
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Interest rate swaps — notional value(3)
  
 
240,000
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
100,000
  
  
 
75,000
  
  
 
65,000
  

 Customer-related positions
  



  



  



  



  




 Foreign exchange contracts(4)
  
 
21,657
  
  
 
21,657
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Loan level interest rate swaps(5)
  
 
383,422
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
99,431
  
  
 
164,260
  
  
 
119,731
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL COMMITMENTS
  
$
2,010,145
  
  
$
759,014
  
  
$
307,640
  
  
$
264,370
  
  
$
679,121
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The Company has hedged certain short-term borrowings and variable rate junior subordinated debentures, effectively converting the borrowings to a fixed rate.
  


(2)
Retirement benefit obligations include expected contributions to the Company’s frozen pension plan, post retirement plan, and supplemental executive retirement
plans. Expected contributions for the pension plan have been included only through plan year July 1, 2011 — June 30, 2012. Contributions beyond this plan year can not be quantified as they will be determined based upon the return on the
investments in the plan and the discount rate used to quantify the liability. Expected contributions for the post retirement plan and supplemental executive retirement plans include obligations that are payable over the life of the participants.
  


(3)
Interest rate swaps on borrowings and junior subordinated debentures (Bank pays fixed, receives variable). 
 


(4)
Offsetting positions to interest rate foreign exchange contracts offered to commercial borrowers through the Company’s derivative Program.
  


(5)
Offsetting positions to Interest rate swaps offered to commercial borrowers through the Company’s loan-level derivative program. 
  Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices 
The consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto presented elsewhere herein have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering changes in the relative purchasing power of money
over time due to inflation. 
  65 


Table of Contents
The financial nature of the Company’s consolidated financial statements is more clearly
affected by changes in interest rates than by inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily fluctuate in the same direction or in the same magnitude as the prices of goods and services. However, inflation does affect the Company because, as prices
increase, the money supply grows and interest rates are affected by inflationary expectations. The impact on the Company is a noted increase in the size of loan requests with resulting growth in total assets. In addition, operating expenses may
increase without a corresponding increase in productivity. There is no precise method, however, to measure the effects of inflation on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, any examination or analysis of the financial
statements should take into consideration the possible effects of inflation.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgments and uncertainties, and
could potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. Management believes that the Company’s most critical accounting policies upon which the Company’s financial condition depends, and which
involve the most complex or subjective decisions or assessments, are as follows:  Allowance for Loan
Losses    The Company’s allowance for loan losses provides for probable losses based upon evaluations of known and inherent risks in the loan portfolio. Arriving at an appropriate amount of allowance for loan losses
involves a high degree of judgment.  The Company makes use of two types of allowances for loan losses: specific and general. A
specific allowance may be assigned to a loan that is considered to be impaired. Certain loans are evaluated individually for impairment and are judged to be impaired when management believes it is probable that the Bank will not collect all of the
contractual interest and principal payments as scheduled in the loan agreement. Judgment is required with respect to designating a loan as impaired and determining the amount of the required specific allowance. Management’s judgment is based
upon its assessment of probability of default, loss given default, and exposure at default. Changes in these estimates could be due to a number of circumstances which may have a direct impact on the provision for loan losses and may result in
changes to the amount of allowance.  The general allowance is determined based upon the application of the Company’s
methodology for assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, which considers historical and expected loss factors, loan portfolio composition and other relevant indicators. This methodology involves management’s judgment regarding
the application and use of such factors, including the effects of changes to the prevailing economic environment in its estimate of the required amounts of general allowance.  The allowance is increased by provisions for loan losses and by recoveries of loans previously charged-off and is reduced by loans charged-off. For additional discussion of the Company’s methodology
of assessing the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, see Note 4, “Loans, Allowance for Loan Losses, and Credit Quality” within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. 
Income Taxes    The Company accounts for income taxes using two components of income tax expense, current and
deferred. Taxes are discussed in more detail in Note 13, “Income Taxes” within Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to or
to be received from taxing authorities in the current year. In estimating accrued taxes, management assesses the relative merits and risks of the appropriate tax treatment of transactions taking into account statutory, judicial, and regulatory
guidance in the context of the Company’s tax position. Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent the future effects on income taxes that result from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported
amounts in the financial statements, and carry-forwards that exist at the end of a period. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates and provisions of the enacted tax law and are not discounted to reflect the
time-value of money. The effect of any change in enacted tax rates on 
  66 


Table of Contents

deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are assessed for recoverability. The Company would record a
valuation allowance if it believes based on available evidence that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets recognized will not be realized before their expiration. The amount of the deferred tax asset recognized and considered
realizable could be reduced if projected income is not achieved due to various factors such as unfavorable business conditions. If projected income is not expected to be achieved, the Company would record a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred
tax assets to the amount that it believes can be realized in its future tax returns. The Company had no recorded tax valuation allowance as of December 31, 2011. Additionally, deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated based on tax
rates expected to be in effect in future periods. Previously recorded tax assets and liabilities need to be adjusted when the expected date of the future event is revised based upon current information. The Company may record an unrecognized tax
benefit related to uncertain tax positions taken by the Company on its tax returns for which there is less than a 50% likelihood of being recognized upon a tax examination. All movements in unrecognized tax benefits are recognized through the
provision for income taxes.  Valuation of Goodwill/Intangible Assets and Analysis for
Impairment    The Company has increased its market share through the acquisition of entire financial institutions accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting, as well as from the acquisition of branches (not the
entire institution) and other nonbanking entities. For all acquisitions, the Company is required to record assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which is an estimate determined by the use of internal or other valuation
techniques. Goodwill is subject to impairment tests annually, or more frequently if necessary, and is evaluated using a two step impairment approach. The first step (“Step 1”) of the impairment testing compares book value to the market
value of the Company’s stock, or to the fair value of the reporting unit. If Step 1 is failed, a more detailed analysis is performed, which involves measuring the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in Step 1, over the
aggregate fair value of the individual assets, liabilities, and identifiable intangibles by utilizing a comparable analysis of relevant price multiples in recent market transactions. Step 1 of the impairment testing was passed for all reporting
units during 2011. The vast majority of the Company’s goodwill relates to acquisitions that are fully integrated into the retail banking operations, which management does not consider to be at risk of failing Step 1 in the near future. Goodwill
totaling $2.2 million dollars, associated with the asset purchase of Compass Exchange Advisors on January 1, 2007, has the potential of failing Step 1 in future periods. Compass’ business model success is closely correlated to the volume
of U.S. commercial real estate transactions and the interest rate spread that can be obtained on short-term funds among other factors. Low growth in these factors, or a continued period of low rates could result in future impairment being
recognized. The Company’s intangible assets are subject to amortization and are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be receivable. If applicable, the Company tests each
of the intangibles by comparing the carrying value of the intangible to the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. 
Valuation of Securities and Analysis for Impairment    Securities that the Company has the ability and intent
to hold until maturity are classified as securities held-to-maturity and are accounted for using historical cost, adjusted for amortization of premium and accretion of discount. Trading securities are carried at fair value, with unrealized gains and
losses recorded in other noninterest income. All other securities are classified as securities available-for-sale and are carried at fair market value. The fair values of securities are based on either quoted market price or third party pricing
services. In general, the third-party pricing services employ various methodologies, including but not limited to, broker quotes and proprietary models. Management does not typically adjust the prices received from third-party pricing services.
Depending upon the type of security, management employs various techniques to analyze the pricing it receives from third-parties, such as reviewing model inputs, reviewing comparable trades, analyzing changes in market yields and, in certain
instances, reviewing the underlying collateral of the security. Management reviews changes in fair values from period to period and performs testing to ensure that the prices received from the third parties are consistent with their expectation of
the market.  Management determines if the market for a security is active primarily based upon the frequency of which the
security, or similar securities, are traded. For securities which are determined to have an inactive market, fair 
  67 


Table of Contents

value models are calibrated and to the extent possible, significant inputs are back tested on a quarterly basis. The third-party service provider performs calibration and testing of the models by
comparing anticipated inputs to actual results, on a quarterly basis. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available-for-sale are reported, on an after-tax basis, as a separate component of stockholders’ equity in accumulated other
comprehensive income.  On a quarterly basis, the Company makes an assessment to determine whether there have been any events
or circumstances to indicate that a security for which there is an unrealized loss is impaired on an other-than-temporary basis. The Company considers many factors, including the severity and duration of the impairment; the Company’s intent to
sell the security, or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, recent events specific to the issuer or industry; and for debt securities, external credit ratings
and recent downgrades. The term other-than-temporary is not intended to indicate that the decline is permanent. It indicates that the prospects for near-term recovery are not necessarily favorable or that there is a lack of evidence to support fair
values greater than or equal to the carrying value of the investment. Estimates of the expected cash flows for investment securities that potentially may be deemed to have OTTI begin with the contractual cash flows of the security. This amount is
then reduced by an estimate of probable credit losses associated with the security. When estimating the extent of probable losses on the securities, management considers the strength of the underlying issuers of the securities. Indicators of
diminished credit quality of the issuers include defaults, interest deferrals, or “payments in kind.” Numerous factors are considered when estimating the ultimate realizability of the cash flow for each individual security. The resulting
estimate of cash flows after considering credit is then subject to a present value computation using a discount rate equal to the current yield used to accrete the beneficial interest or, the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the
date of acquisition. If the present value of the estimated cash flows is less than the current amortized cost basis, an OTTI is considered to have occurred and the security is written down to the fair value indicated by the cash flows analysis. Any
portion of decline in fair value considered to be an OTTI charge that is not due to the reduction in cash flows due to credit is considered a decline due to other factors such as liquidity or interest rates and accordingly is recorded in other
comprehensive income. Any portion of the decline which is related to credit is recorded in earnings.  Recent Accounting Developments
 See Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” within Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in Item 8 hereof.  Item 7A.    Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Assets and Liability Management” in Item 7 hereof. 
  68 


Table of Contents
Item 8.    Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
Independent Bank Corp.:  We have
audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Independent Bank Corp. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Independent Bank Corp. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  During 2009, the Company
changed its method of accounting for impairment losses on investment securities (see Note 1 to the financial statements) and business combinations (see Note 2 to the financial statements). 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission, and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   






/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

March 9, 2012

  69 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

ASSETS
  

 CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS
  
$
58,301
  
 
$
42,112
  

 INTEREST EARNING DEPOSITS WITH BANKS
  
 
179,203
  
 
 
119,170
  

 SECURITIES
  



 




 Trading Securities
  
 
8,240
  
 
 
7,597
  

 Securities Available for Sale
  
 
305,332
  
 
 
377,457
  

 Securities Held to Maturity (fair value $211,494 and $201,234)
  
 
204,956
  
 
 
202,732
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL SECURITIES
  
 
518,528
  
 
 
587,786
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 LOANS HELD FOR SALE (at fair value)
  
 
20,500
  
 
 
27,917
  

 LOANS
  



 




 Commercial and Industrial
  
 
575,716
  
 
 
502,952
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
1,847,654
  
 
 
1,717,118
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
128,904
  
 
 
129,421
  

 Small Business
  
 
78,509
  
 
 
80,026
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
416,570
  
 
 
473,936
  

 Residential Construction
  
 
9,631
  
 
 
4,175
  

 Home Equity
  
 
696,063
  
 
 
579,278
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
41,343
  
 
 
68,773
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LOANS
  
 
3,794,390
  
 
 
3,555,679
  

 Less: Allowance for Loan Losses
  
 
(48,260
) 
 
 
(46,255
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET LOANS
  
 
3,746,130
  
 
 
3,509,424
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK STOCK
  
 
35,854
  
 
 
35,854
  

 BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT, NET
  
 
48,252
  
 
 
45,712
  

 GOODWILL
  
 
130,074
  
 
 
129,617
  

 IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  
 
10,648
  
 
 
12,339
  

 CASH SURRENDER VALUE OF LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES
  
 
86,137
  
 
 
82,711
  

 OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED & OTHER FORECLOSED ASSETS
  
 
6,924
  
 
 
7,333
  

 OTHER ASSETS
  
 
129,689
  
 
 
95,763
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
4,970,240
  
 
$
4,695,738
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 



LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  

 DEPOSITS
  



 




 Demand Deposits
  
$
992,418
  
 
$
842,067
  

 Savings and Interest Checking Accounts
  
 
1,473,812
  
 
 
1,375,254
  

 Money Market
  
 
780,437
  
 
 
717,286
  

 Time Certificates of Deposit Over $100,000
  
 
225,099
  
 
 
219,480
  

 Other Time Certificates of Deposits
  
 
405,063
  
 
 
473,696
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL DEPOSITS
  
 
3,876,829
  
 
 
3,627,783
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BORROWINGS
  



 




 Federal Home Loan Bank and Other Borrowings
  
 
229,701
  
 
 
305,458
  

 Federal Funds Purchased and Assets Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
  
 
216,128
  
 
 
168,119
  

 Junior Subordinated Debentures
  
 
61,857
  
 
 
61,857
  

 Subordinated Debentures
  
 
30,000
  
 
 
30,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL BORROWINGS
  
 
537,686
  
 
 
565,434
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 OTHER LIABILITIES
  
 
86,668
  
 
 
66,049
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES
  
 
4,501,183
  
 
 
4,259,266
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
  



 




 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Preferred Stock, $.01 par value. Authorized: 1,000,000 Shares Outstanding: None
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Common Stock, $.01 par value. Authorized: 75,000,000Issued and Outstanding : 21,499,768 Shares in 2011 and 21,220,801 Shares in
2010
  
 
213
  
 
 
210
  

 (includes 235,540 and 219,900 shares of unvested participating restricted stock awards, respectively)
  



 




 Shares Held in Rabbi Trust at Cost 180,058 Shares in 2011 and 178,382 Shares in 2010
  
 
(2,980
) 
 
 
(2,738
) 

 Deferred Compensation Obligation
  
 
2,980
  
 
 
2,738
  

 Additional Paid in Capital
  
 
233,878
  
 
 
226,708
  

 Retained Earnings
  
 
239,452
  
 
 
210,320
  

 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss, Net of Tax
  
 
(4,486
) 
 
 
(766
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
 
469,057
  
 
 
436,472
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
$
4,970,240
  
 
$
4,695,738
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  70 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
















 
  
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 

 INTEREST INCOME
  



 



 




 Interest on Loans
  
$
174,450
  
 
$
177,064
  
 
$
172,128
  

 Taxable Interest and Dividends on Securities
  
 
20,326
  
 
 
23,984
  
 
 
28,695
  

 Non-taxable Interest and Dividends on Securities
  
 
331
  
 
 
673
  
 
 
947
  

 Interest on Loans Held for Sale
  
 
482
  
 
 
666
  
 
 
629
  

 Interest on Federal Funds Sold
  
 
162
  
 
 
337
  
 
 
290
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL INTEREST AND DIVIDEND INCOME
  
 
195,751
  
 
 
202,724
  
 
 
202,689
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INTEREST EXPENSE
  



 



 




 Interest on Deposits
  
 
13,355
  
 
 
20,254
  
 
 
31,163
  

 Interest on Borrowings
  
 
15,317
  
 
 
18,509
  
 
 
20,832
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSE
  
 
28,672
  
 
 
38,763
  
 
 
51,995
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INTEREST INCOME
  
 
167,079
  
 
 
163,961
  
 
 
150,694
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES
  
 
11,482
  
 
 
18,655
  
 
 
17,335
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INTEREST INCOME AFTER PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES
  
 
155,597
  
 
 
145,306
  
 
 
133,359
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NONINTEREST INCOME
  



 



 




 Service Charges on Deposit Accounts
  
 
16,628
  
 
 
13,624
  
 
 
12,951
  

 Interchange and ATM Fees
  
 
7,733
  
 
 
5,084
  
 
 
4,109
  

 Investment Management
  
 
13,532
  
 
 
11,723
  
 
 
10,047
  

 Mortgage Banking Income
  
 
4,197
  
 
 
5,041
  
 
 
4,857
  

 Increase in Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance Policies
  
 
3,170
  
 
 
3,192
  
 
 
2,939
  

 Net Gain on Sales of Securities
  
 
723
  
 
 
458
  
 
 
1,354
  

 Gain Resulting From Early Termination of Hedging Relationship
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,778
  

 Gross Change on Write-Down of Certain Investments to Fair Value
  
 
53
  
 
 
497
  
 
 
(7,382
) 

 Less: Portion of OTTI Losses Recognized in OCI
  
 
(296
) 
 
 
(831
) 
 
 
(1,576
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Loss on Write-Down of Certain Investments to Fair Value
  
 
(243
) 
 
 
(334
) 
 
 
(8,958
) 

 Other Noninterest Income
  
 
6,960
  
 
 
8,118
  
 
 
7,115
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL NONINTEREST INCOME
  
 
52,700
  
 
 
46,906
  
 
 
38,192
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NONINTEREST EXPENSES
  



 



 




 Salaries and Employee Benefits
  
 
81,275
  
 
 
76,983
  
 
 
68,257
  

 Occupancy and Equipment Expenses
  
 
16,916
  
 
 
16,011
  
 
 
15,673
  

 Data Processing & Facilities Management
  
 
4,891
  
 
 
5,773
  
 
 
5,779
  

 Advertising Expense
  
 
3,876
  
 
 
2,171
  
 
 
2,199
  

 FDIC Assessment
  
 
3,496
  
 
 
5,247
  
 
 
6,975
  

 Consulting Expense
  
 
2,660
  
 
 
2,523
  
 
 
1,951
  

 Legal Fees
  
 
2,262
  
 
 
3,277
  
 
 
2,961
  

 Telecommunications
  
 
2,092
  
 
 
2,101
  
 
 
2,635
  

 Prepayment Fee on Borrowings
  
 
757
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Merger and Acquisition Expense
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
12,423
  

 Other Non-Interest Expenses
  
 
27,488
  
 
 
25,659
  
 
 
22,962
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL NONINTEREST EXPENSES
  
 
145,713
  
 
 
139,745
  
 
 
141,815
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAXES
  
 
62,584
  
 
 
52,467
  
 
 
29,736
  

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
  
 
17,148
  
 
 
12,227
  
 
 
6,747
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  
 
$
22,989
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDEND
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
5,698
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS
  
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  
 
$
17,291
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
  
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
0.88
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
  
$
2.12
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
0.88
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES (BASIC)
  
 
21,422,757
  
 
 
21,178,117
  
 
 
19,642,965
  

 Common Share Equivalents
  
 
28,830
  
 
 
25,798
  
 
 
30,191
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES (DILUTED)
  
 
21,451,587
  
 
 
21,203,915
  
 
 
19,673,156
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER COMMON SHARE
  
$
0.76
  
 
$
0.72
  
 
$
0.72
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  71 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 








































 
 
PREFERREDSTOCK
 
 
COMMONSHARESOUTSTANDING
 
 
COMMONSTOCK
 
 
VALUE OFSHARESHELD INRABBI TRUST
 
 
DEFERREDCOMPENSATIONOBLIGATION
 
 
ADDITIONALPAID-INCAPITAL
 
 
RETAINEDEARNINGS
 
 
ACCUMULATEDOTHERCOMPREHENSIVEINCOME/(LOSS)
 
 
TOTAL
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 

 BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2008
 
$
 —
  
 
 
16,301,405
  
 
$
163
  
 
$
(2,267
) 
 
$
2,267
  
 
$
137,488
  
 
$
177,493
  
 
$
(9,870
) 
 
$
305,274
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CUMULATIVE EFFECT ACCOUNTING ADJUSTMENT, NET OF TAX (1)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,823
  
 
 
(3,823
) 
 
 
—
  

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
22,989
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
22,989
  

 Change in Unrealized Gain on Securities Available For Sale, Net of Tax and Realized Gains
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
9,588
  
 




 Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax, and Realized Gains
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,446
  
 




 Amortization of Prior Service Cost
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(588
) 
 





 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Other Comprehensive Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
16,446
  
 
 
16,446
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 



 
 
39,435
  

 DIVIDENDS DECLARED:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Common Declared ($0.72 per share)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(14,315
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(14,315
) 

 Preferred Declared(2)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,698
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,698
) 

 COMMON STOCK ISSUED FOR ACQUISITION
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,624,948
  
 
 
46
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
84,452
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
84,498
  

 PROCEEDS FROM EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS
 
 
—
  
 
 
23,400
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
307
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
307
  

 TAX EXPENSE RELATED TO EQUITY AWARD ACTIVITY
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 

 EQUITY BASED COMPENSATION
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
774
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
774
  

 RESTRICTED SHARED ISSUED, NET OF AWARDS SURRENDERED
 
 
—
  
 
 
122,443
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3
) 

 DEFERRED COMPENSATION OBLIGATION
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(215
) 
 
 
215
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED STOCK AND WARRANTS
 
 
73,578
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,580
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
78,158
  

 REDEMPTION OF PREFERRED STOCK AND WARRANTS
 
 
(73,578
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,200
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(75,778
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2009
 
$
 —
  
 
 
21,072,196
  
 
$
209
  
 
$
(2,482
) 
 
$
2,482
  
 
$
225,088
  
 
$
184,599
  
 
$
2,753
  
 
$
412,649
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
40,240
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
40,240
  

 Change in Unrealized Gain on Securities Available For Sale, Net of Tax and Realized Gains/(Losses)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,912
  
 




 Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax and Realized Gains/(Losses)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,549
) 
 




 Amortization of Prior Service Cost, net of tax
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
118
  
 





 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Other Comprehensive Loss
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,519
) 
 
 
(3,519
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
36,721
  

 COMMON DIVIDEND DECLARED ($0.72 PER SHARE)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,261
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(15,261
) 

 PROCEEDS FROM EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS
 
 
—
  
 
 
44,930
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
742
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
743
  

 TAX EXPENSE RELATED TO EQUITY AWARD ACTIVITY
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
68
  

 EQUITY BASED COMPENSATION
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,666
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,666
  

 RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS GRANTED, NET OF AWARDS SURRENDERED
 
 
—
  
 
 
103,675
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(114
) 

 DEFERRED COMPENSATION OBLIGATION
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(256
) 
 
 
256
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2010    
 
$
—
  
 
 
21,220,801
  
 
$
210
  
 
$
(2,738
) 
 
$
2,738
  
 
$
226,708
  
 
$
210,320
  
 
$
(766
) 
 
$
436,472
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  72 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY — (Continued)
  








































 
 
PREFERREDSTOCK
 
 
COMMONSHARESOUTSTANDING
 
 
COMMONSTOCK
 
 
VALUE OFSHARESHELD INRABBI TRUST
 
 
DEFERREDCOMPENSATIONOBLIGATION
 
 
ADDITIONALPAID-INCAPITAL
 
 
RETAINEDEARNINGS
 
 
ACCUMULATEDOTHERCOMPREHENSIVEINCOME/(LOSS)
 
 
TOTAL
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 

 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net Income
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
45,436
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
45,436
  

 Change in Unrealized Gain on Securities Available For Sale, Net of Tax and Realized Gains/(Losses)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
269
  
 




 Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges, Net of Tax and Realized Gains/(Losses)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,823
) 
 




 Amortization of Prior Service Cost, net of tax
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(166
) 
 





 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Other Comprehensive Loss
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,720
) 
 
 
(3,720
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
41,716
  

 COMMON DIVIDEND DECLARED ($0.76 PER SHARE)
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,304
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(16,304
) 

 PROCEEDS FROM EXERCISE OF STOCK OPTIONS
 
 
—
  
 
 
186,518
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,125
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,127
  

 TAX BENEFIT RELATED TO EQUITY AWARD ACTIVITY
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
20
  

 EQUITY BASED COMPENSATION
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,483
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,483
  

 RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS GRANTED, NET OF AWARDS SURRENDERED
 
 
—
  
 
 
60,495
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(361
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(361
) 

 SHARES ISSUED UNDER DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
 
 
—
  
 
 
31,954
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
823
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
824
  

 DEFERRED COMPENSATION OBLIGATION
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(242
) 
 
 
242
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 TAX BENEFIT RELATED TO DEFERRED COMPENSATION DISTRIBUTIONS
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
80
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
80
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 2011
 
$
—
  
 
 
21,499,768
  
 
$
213
  
 
$
(2,980
) 
 
$
2,980
  
 
$
233,878
  
 
$
239,452
  
 
$
(4,486
) 
 
$
469,057
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Represents reclassification of the non-credit related component of previously recorded Other-Than-Temporary impairment, pursuant to the provisions of the
Investments-Debt and Equity Securities Topic of FASB ASC.   


(2)
Includes $196,000 accretion of discount on preferred stock and $4.4 million of deemed dividend associated with the Company’s exit from the U.S. Treasury’s
Capital Purchase Program. 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements. 
  73 


Table of Contents
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Net income
 
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  
 
$
22,989
  

 ADJUSTMENTS TO RECONCILE NET INCOME TO NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Depreciation and Amortization
 
 
9,634
  
 
 
9,880
  
 
 
5,744
  

 Provision for Loan Losses
 
 
11,482
  
 
 
18,655
  
 
 
17,335
  

 Deferred Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
 
 
91
  
 
 
(2,494
) 
 
 
(2,281
) 

 Net Gain on Sale of Investments
 
 
(723
) 
 
 
(458
) 
 
 
(1,354
) 

 Loss on Write-Down of Investments in Securities Available for Sale
 
 
243
  
 
 
334
  
 
 
8,958
  

 Loss on Sale of Fixed Assets
 
 
353
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
85
  

 Gain Resulting from Early Termination of a Hedging Relationship
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,778
) 

 Loss on Sale of Other Real Estate Owned and Foreclosed Assets
 
 
1,562
  
 
 
367
  
 
 
415
  

 Realized Gain on Sale Leaseback Transaction
 
 
(1,034
) 
 
 
(1,034
) 
 
 
(1,034
) 

 Stock Based Compensation
 
 
2,483
  
 
 
1,666
  
 
 
774
  

 Increase in Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance Policies
 
 
(3,159
) 
 
 
(3,192
) 
 
 
(2,651
) 

 Change in Fair Value on Loans Held for Sale
 
 
(856
) 
 
 
593
  
 
 
—
  

 Net Change In:
 



 



 




 Trading Assets
 
 
(643
) 
 
 
(1,426
) 
 
 
(3,470
) 

 Loans Held for Sale
 
 
8,273
  
 
 
(15,044
) 
 
 
(5,115
) 

 Other Assets
 
 
(32,482
) 
 
 
(15,608
) 
 
 
9,820
  

 Other Liabilities
 
 
14,871
  
 
 
13,894
  
 
 
(15,021
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL ADJUSTMENTS
 
 
10,095
  
 
 
6,413
  
 
 
8,427
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
 
 
55,531
  
 
 
46,653
  
 
 
31,416
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Proceeds from Sales of Securities Available for Sale
 
 
14,639
  
 
 
6,423
  
 
 
168,556
  

 Proceeds from Maturities and Principal Repayments of Securities Available for Sale
 
 
108,312
  
 
 
173,608
  
 
 
158,458
  

 Purchases of Securities Available for Sale
 
 
(50,975
) 
 
 
(46,349
) 
 
 
(92,966
) 

 Proceeds from Maturities and Principal Repayments of Securities Held to Maturity
 
 
44,090
  
 
 
22,570
  
 
 
7,660
  

 Purchases of Securities Held to Maturity
 
 
(47,343
) 
 
 
(132,331
) 
 
 
(68,381
) 

 Purchases of Life Insurance Policies
 
 
(267
) 
 
 
(267
) 
 
 
(267
) 

 Net Increase in Loans
 
 
(256,282
) 
 
 
(187,374
) 
 
 
(69,905
) 

 Cash Used in Business Combinations
 
 
(457
) 
 
 
(269
) 
 
 
97,335
  

 Purchase of Bank Premises and Equipment
 
 
(8,317
) 
 
 
(7,022
) 
 
 
(6,601
) 

 Proceeds from the Sale of Bank Premises and Equipment
 
 
496
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
67
  

 Proceeds Resulting from Early Termination of a Hedging Relationship
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,099
  

 Proceeds from the Sale of Other Real Estate Owned and Foreclosed Assets
 
 
6,276
  
 
 
7,190
  
 
 
5,124
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
 
(189,828
) 
 
 
(163,784
) 
 
 
205,179
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Net Decrease in Time Deposits
 
 
(63,014
) 
 
 
(224,605
) 
 
 
(170,699
) 

 Net Increase in Other Deposits
 
 
312,060
  
 
 
477,094
  
 
 
265,506
  

 Net Increase (Decrease) in Federal Funds Purchased and Assets Sold Under Repurchase Agreements
 
 
48,009
  
 
 
(22,333
) 
 
 
19,572
  

 Net Decrease in Short Term Federal Home Loan Bank Advances
 
 
(5,000
) 
 
 
(10,000
) 
 
 
(81,000
) 

 Net Decrease in Long Term Federal Home Loan Bank Advances
 
 
(67,144
) 
 
 
(50,000
) 
 
 
(180,910
) 

 Net Increase (Decrease) in Treasury Tax & Loan Notes
 
 
(3,044
) 
 
 
892
  
 
 
(794
) 

 Proceeds from Issuance of Preferred Stock and Stock Warrants
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
78,158
  

 Redemption of Preferred Stock
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(78,158
) 

 Redemption of Warrants
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,200
) 

 Proceeds from Exercise of Stock Options
 
 
4,127
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
307
  

 Restricted Shares Surrendered
 
 
(361
) 
 
 
(114
) 
 
 
(3
) 

 Tax Benefit (Expense) from Equity Award Activity and Deferred Compensation
 
 
100
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Proceeds from Shares Issued Under Direct Stock Purchase Plan
 
 
824
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 DIVIDENDS PAID
 



 



 




 Preferred Dividends
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,118
) 

 Common Dividends
 
 
(16,038
) 
 
 
(15,237
) 
 
 
(13,455
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 
 
210,519
  
 
 
156,508
  
 
 
(164,797
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 
76,222
  
 
 
39,377
  
 
 
71,798
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR
 
 
161,282
  
 
 
121,905
  
 
 
50,107
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR
 
$
237,504
  
 
$
161,282
  
 
$
121,905
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH PAID DURING THE YEAR FOR
 



 



 




 Interest on Deposits and Borrowings
 
$
29,659
  
 
$
38,528
  
 
$
52,884
  

 Income Taxes
 
 
18,962
  
 
 
12,627
  
 
 
4,877
  

 SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF NONCASH INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
 



 



 




 Transfer of Loans to Foreclosed Assets
 
$
6,285
  
 
$
10,836
  
 
$
4,440
  

 IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE PURCHASE ACQUISITION DETAILED IN NOTE 2 TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, ASSETS WERE ACQUIRED
AND LIABILITIES WERE ASSUMED AS FOLLOWS:
 



 



 




 Common Stock Issued for Acquisition
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
84,498
  

 Fair Value of Assets Acquired, Net of Cash Acquired
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
908,359
  

 Fair Value of Liabilities Assumed
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
921,945
  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  74 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
(1)    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Independent Bank Corp. (“the Company”) is a bank holding company whose principal subsidiary is Rockland Trust
Company (“Rockland Trust” or the “Bank”). Rockland Trust is a state-chartered commercial bank, which operates 67 full service and two limited service retail branches, ten commercial banking centers, four investment management
offices and four mortgage lending centers, all of which are located in eastern Massachusetts, including Cape Cod, with the exception of an investment management group/commercial lending office located in Rhode Island. Rockland Trust deposits are
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, subject to regulatory limits. The Company’s primary source of income is from providing loans to individuals and small-to-medium sized businesses in its market area. 
PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, the Bank and other wholly-owned subsidiaries, except subsidiaries that are not deemed necessary to be consolidated. All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company consolidates subsidiaries in which it holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting rights and where it exercises control. Entities
where the Company holds 20% to 50% of the voting rights, or has the ability to exercise significant influence or both, are accounted for under the equity method. The Company would consolidate entities deemed to be variable interest entities (VIEs)
when it is determined to be the primary beneficiary. A legal entity is referred to as a VIE if any of the following conditions exist: (1) the total equity investment at risk is insufficient to permit the legal entity to finance its activities
without additional subordinated financial support from other parties, or (2) the entity has equity investors that cannot make significant decisions about the entity’s operations or that do not absorb their proportionate share of the
expected losses or receive the expected returns of the entity.  A VIE must be consolidated by the Company if the Company is
deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE, which is the party involved with the VIE that will absorb a majority of the expected losses, receive a majority of the expected residual returns, or both. 
RECLASSIFICATION  Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  USE OF ESTIMATES  The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant
changes in the near-term relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses, income taxes, valuation and potential impairment of investment securities, other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) of certain investment securities,
and valuation of goodwill and other intangibles and their respective analysis of impairment.  SIGNIFICANT CONCENTRATIONS
OF CREDIT RISK  The vast majority of the Bank’s lending activities are conducted in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts. The Bank originates commercial and industrial loans, commercial and residential real estate loans, small business loans, consumer home equity loans, and other loans for its portfolio. The Bank considers a concentration of credit

  75 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

to a particular industry to exist when the aggregate credit exposure which includes direct, indirect or contingent obligations to a borrower, an affiliated group of borrowers or a nonaffiliated
group of borrowers engaged in one industry, exceeds 10% of the Bank’s loan portfolio.  Loans originated by the Bank to
lessors of nonresidential buildings represented 14.7% and 13.9% of the total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Within this concentration category the Company is well diversified among collateral property types and
tenant industries.  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, DUE FROM BANKS, AND INTEREST EARNING DEPOSITS 
For purposes of reporting cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, amounts due from banks, federal funds sold and
assets purchased under resale agreements. Generally, federal funds are sold for up to two week periods. Included in cash and due from banks are interest bearing deposits held at the Federal Reserve Bank. 
SECURITIES  Investment securities are classified at the time of purchase as “available for sale,” “held to maturity,” or “trading.” Classification is constantly re-evaluated for
consistency with corporate goals and objectives. Trading securities are recorded at fair value with subsequent changes in fair value recorded in earnings. Debt securities that management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are
classified as “held to maturity” and recorded at amortized cost. Securities not classified as held to maturity or trading, including equity securities with readily determinable fair values, are classified as “available for sale”
and recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value excluded from earnings and reported in other comprehensive income, net of related tax. Purchase premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income, using the interest method, to arrive at
periodic interest income at a constant effective yield, thereby reflecting the securities market yield. Gains and losses on the sale of securities are recorded on the trade date and are determined using the specific identification method.
 Declines in the fair value of held to maturity and available for sale securities below their amortized cost deemed to be OTTI
are written down to fair value as determined by a cash flow analysis. To the extent the estimated cash flows do not support the amortized cost, the deficiency is considered to be due to credit loss and recognized in earnings and the remainder of the
OTTI charge is considered to be due to other factors, such as liquidity or interest rates, and thus is not recognized in earnings, but rather through other comprehensive income, net of related tax. The Company evaluates individual securities that
have fair values below cost for six months or longer, or for a shorter period of time if considered appropriate by management, to determine if the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary. Consideration is given to the obligor of the security,
whether the security is guaranteed, whether there is a projected adverse change in cash flows, the liquidity of the security, the type of security, the capital position of security issuers, and payment history of the security, amongst other factors
when evaluating these individual securities.  LOANS HELD FOR SALE 
The Bank primarily classifies new residential real estate mortgage loans as held for sale based on intent, which is determined when loans
are underwritten. Residential real estate mortgage loans not designated as held for sale are retained based upon available liquidity, interest rate risk management and other business purposes. 
Prior to July 1, 2010, loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market were carried at the lower of cost or fair
value (“LOCOM”). Effective July 1, 2010, pursuant to FASB ASC Topic No. 825, “Financial Instruments,” the Company elected to carry newly originated closed loans intended for sale at fair

  76 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

value. Changes in fair value relating to loans intended for sale and forward sale commitments are recorded in earnings and are offset by changes in fair value relating to interest rate lock
commitments. Gains and losses on residential loan sales (sales proceeds minus carrying amount) are recorded in Mortgage Banking Income. Direct loan origination costs and fees are deferred upon origination and are recognized on the date of sale.
 LOANS  Loans are carried at the principal amounts outstanding, or amortized acquired fair value in the case of acquired loans, adjusted by partial charge-offs and net of deferred loan costs or fees. Loan fees
and certain direct origination costs are deferred and amortized into interest income over the expected term of the loan using the level-yield method. When a loan is paid off, the unamortized portion is recognized in interest income. Interest
income for commercial, small business, real estate, and consumer loans is accrued based upon the daily principal amount outstanding except for loans on nonaccrual status.  Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status if the payment of principal or interest is past due more than 90 days, or sooner if management considers such action to be prudent. As permitted by banking
regulations, consumer loans past due 90 days or more may continue to accrue interest however, such loans are usually charged-off after 120 days of delinquency. As a general rule, a commercial or real estate loan more than 90 days past due with
respect to principal or interest is classified as a nonaccrual loan. However, certain commercial and real estate loans that are more than 90 days past due may be kept on an accruing status if the loan is well secured and in the process of
collection. Income accruals are suspended on all nonaccrual loans and all previously accrued and uncollected interest is reversed against current income. A loan remains on nonaccrual status until it becomes current with respect to principal and
interest (and in certain instances remains current for up to six months), when management no longer has doubt about the collection of principal and interest, when the loan is liquidated, or when the loan is determined to be uncollectible and is
charged-off against the allowance for loan losses. When doubt exists as to the collectability of a loan, any payments received are applied to reduce the recorded investment in the asset to the extent necessary to eliminate such doubt. 
In cases where a borrower experiences financial difficulties and the Company makes certain concessionary modifications to contractual
terms, the loan is classified as a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”). Modifications may include adjustments to interest rates, extensions of maturity, and other actions intended to minimize economic loss and avoid foreclosure or
repossession of collateral. Nonaccrual loans that are restructured remain on nonaccrual for a period of six months to demonstrate that the borrower can meet the restructured terms. If the restructured loan is on accrual status prior to being
modified, it is reviewed to determine if the modified loan should remain on accrual status. If the borrower’s ability to meet the revised payment schedule is not reasonably assured, the loan is classified as a nonaccrual loan. Loans classified
as TDRs remain classified as such until the loan is paid off.  ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES 
The allowance for loan losses is established based upon the level of estimated probable losses in the current loan portfolio. Loan losses
are charged against the allowance when management believes the collectability of a loan balance is doubtful. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.  The allowance for loan losses is allocated to loan types using both a formula-based approach applied to groups of loans and an analysis of certain individual loans for impairment. The formula-based
approach emphasizes loss factors derived from actual historical portfolio loss rates, which are combined with an assessment of certain qualitative factors to determine the allowance amounts allocated to the various loan categories. Allowance amounts
are determined based on an estimate of the historical average annual percentage 
  77 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

rate of loan loss for each loan category, a temporal estimate of the incurred loss emergence and confirmation period for each loan category, and certain qualitative risk factors considered in the
computation of the allowance for loan losses.  The qualitative risk factors impacting the inherent risk of loss within the
portfolio include the following:   


 
•
 
 National and local economic and business conditions   


 
•
 
 Level and trend of delinquencies   


 
•
 
 Level and trend of charge-offs and recoveries   


 
•
 
 Trends in volume and terms of loans   


 
•
 
 Risk selection, lending policy and underwriting standards 
 


 
•
 
 Experience and depth of management   


 
•
 
 Banking industry conditions and other external factors 
 


 
•
 
 Concentration risk  The formula-based approach evaluates groups of loans with common characteristics, which consist of similar loan types with similar terms and conditions, to determine the appropriate allocation within each
portfolio section. This approach incorporates qualitative adjustments based upon management’s assessment of various market and portfolio specific risk factors into its formula-based estimate. Due to the imprecise nature of the loan loss
estimation process and ever changing conditions, the qualitative risk attributes may not adequately capture amounts of incurred loss in the formula-based loan loss components used to determine allocations in the Bank’s analysis of the adequacy
of the allowance for loan losses.  The Bank evaluates certain loans within the commercial and industrial, commercial real
estate, commercial construction and small business portfolios individually for specific impairment. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Bank will be unable to collect the scheduled
payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting scheduled
principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Loans are selected for evaluation based upon a change in internal risk rating, occurrence
of delinquency, loan classification, or nonaccrual status. A specific allowance amount is allocated to an individual loan when such loan has been deemed impaired and when the amount of the probable loss is able to be estimated. Estimates of loss may
be determined by the present value of anticipated future cash flows, the loan’s observable fair market value, or the fair value of the collateral, if the loan is collateral dependent. However, for collateral dependent loans, the amount of the
recorded investment in a loan that exceeds the fair value of the collateral is charged-off against the allowance for loan losses in lieu of an allocation of a specific allowance amount when such an amount has been identified definitively as
uncollectable.  Large groups of small-balance homogeneous loans such as the residential real estate, residential construction,
home equity and other consumer portfolios are collectively evaluated for impairment. As such, the Bank does not typically identify individual loans within these groupings as impaired loans or for impairment evaluation and disclosure. However, the
Bank evaluates all TDRs for impairment on an individual loan basis regardless of loan type.  In the ordinary course of
business, the Bank enters into commitments to extend credit, commercial letters of credit, and standby letters of credit. Such financial instruments are recorded in the financial statements when they

  78 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

become payable. The credit risk associated with these commitments is evaluated in a manner similar to the allowance for loan losses. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in
other liabilities in the balance sheet. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the reserve for unfunded loan commitments was $538,000 and $493,000, respectively.  LOAN SERVICING  Servicing assets are recognized as separate assets
when rights are acquired through sale of loans with servicing rights retained. The valuation model incorporates assumptions that market participants would use in estimating future net servicing income, such as the cost to service, the discount rate,
the custodial earnings rate, an inflation rate, ancillary income, prepayment speeds and default rates and losses. Impairment is determined by stratifying the rights based on predominant characteristics, such as interest rate, loan type and investor
type. Impairment is recognized through a valuation allowance, to the extent that fair value is less than the capitalized amount. Fair value is based on market prices for comparable mortgage servicing contracts, when available, or alternatively, is
based on a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. If the Company later determines that all or a portion of the impairment no longer exists, a reduction of the allowance may be recorded as an
increase to income. Servicing rights are recorded in other assets and are amortized in proportion to and over the period of estimated net servicing income. The servicing asset is assessed for impairment based on fair value at each reporting date.
 Servicing fee income is recorded for fees earned for servicing loans for investors. The fees are based on a contractual
percentage of the outstanding principal or a fixed amount per loan, and are recorded as income when earned. The amortization of mortgage servicing rights is recorded as a reduction of loan servicing fee income. 
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK STOCK  The Company, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Boston, is required to maintain an investment in capital stock of the FHLB. Based on redemption provisions, the stock has no
quoted market value and is carried at cost. The Company continually reviews its investment to determine if OTTI exists. The Company reviews recent public filings, rating agency analysis and other factors, when making the determination. 
BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT  Land is carried at cost. Bank premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line convention method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the lease terms or the estimated useful lives of the improvements. Expected terms include lease option periods to the extent that the exercise of such options is reasonably
assured, not to exceed fifteen years.  GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Goodwill is the price paid which exceeds the net fair value of acquired businesses and is not amortized. Goodwill is evaluated for
impairment at least annually, or more often if warranted, by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit(s) to the carrying amount and is evaluated using a two step impairment approach. Step one of the impairment testing compares book value to
the fair value of the reporting unit. If test one is failed, a more detailed analysis is performed, which involves measuring the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in step one, over the aggregate fair value of the
individual assets, liabilities, and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. As a result of such impairment testing, the Company determined goodwill was not impaired. 
  79 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Identifiable intangible assets subject to amortization consist of core deposit
intangibles, noncompete agreements, customer lists, and a brand name, and are amortized over the estimated lives of the intangibles using a method that approximates the amount of economic benefits that are realized by the Company. Identifiable
intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. The range of useful lives is as follows: 
 








 Core Deposit Intangibles
  
 
10 Years
  

 Noncompete Agreements
  
 
5 Years
  

 Customer Lists
  
 
10 Years
  

 Brand Name
  
 
5 Years
  

 Leases
  
 
2 - 29 Years
  
 The determination of which intangible assets have finite lives is subjective, as is the determination of
the amortization period for such intangible assets.  IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL
 The Company reviews long-lived assets, including premises and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in
business circumstances indicate that the remaining useful life may warrant revision or that the carrying amount of the long-lived asset may not be fully recoverable. The Company performs undiscounted cash flow analyses to determine if impairment
exists. If impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.
 CASH SURRENDER VALUE OF LIFE INSURANCE POLICIES 
Increases in the cash surrender value (“CSV”) of life insurance policies, as well as death benefits received net of any CSV, are
recorded in other noninterest income, and are not subject to income taxes. The CSV of the policies not previously endorsed to participants are recorded as assets of the Bank. Any amounts owed to participants relating to these policies are recorded
as liabilities of the Bank. The Company reviews the financial strength of the insurance carriers prior to the purchase of life insurance policies and no less than annually thereafter. A life insurance policy with any individual carrier is limited to
15% of tier one capital and the total CSV of life insurance policies is limited to 25% of tier one capital.  OTHER REAL
ESTATE OWNED AND OTHER FORECLOSED ASSETS  Assets in control of the Company or acquired through foreclosure are held for
sale and are initially recorded at fair value less cost to sell at the date control is established, resulting in a new cost basis. The amount by which the recorded investment in the loan exceeds the fair value (net of estimated cost to sell) of the
foreclosed asset is charged to the allowance for loan losses. Subsequent declines in the fair value of the foreclosed asset below the new cost basis are recorded through the use of a valuation allowance. Subsequent increases in the fair value are
recorded as reductions in the allowance, but not below zero. Rental revenue received on foreclosed assets is included in other noninterest income, whereas operating expenses and changes in the valuation allowance relating to foreclosed assets are
included in Other Noninterest Expense.  DERIVATIVES 
Derivative instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s financial statements. The accounting for changes in the fair value
of a derivative instrument is determined by whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship, and further, by the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative

  80 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the Company designates the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as either a fair value hedge or a cash
flow hedge. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge (i.e., hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk), the effective portion of the gain or
loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of other comprehensive income, net of related tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transactions affect earnings. The remaining gain or
loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of future cash flows of the hedged item (i.e., the ineffective portion), if any, is recognized in current earnings during the period. For derivative
instruments designated and qualifying as a fair value hedge (i.e., hedging the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset or liability or an identified portion thereof that is attributable to the hedged risk), the gain or loss on the
derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, are recognized in current earnings during the period of the change in fair values. For derivative instruments not designated as hedging
instruments, the gain or loss is recognized in current earnings during the period of change. At the inception of a hedge, the Company documents certain items, including but not limited to the following: the relationship between hedging instruments
and hedged items, Company risk management objectives, hedging strategies, and the evaluation of hedge transaction effectiveness. Documentation includes linking all derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets and
liabilities on the balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions.  Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when
(1) a derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flow of a hedged item, (2) a derivative expires or is sold, (3) a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, because it is unlikely that a
forecasted transaction will occur, or (4) it is determined that designation of a derivative as a hedge is no longer appropriate.  As part of its mortgage banking activities, the Company originates residential loan mortgages to be held for sale. In connection with these loans, the Company often offers interest rate lock commitments
to prospective borrowers. The Company manages this interest rate risk by entering into offsetting forward sale agreements, with third party investors for certain funded loans and loan committments. Both the interest rate lock commitments and forward
sale agreements are off balance sheet commitments that are considered to be derivatives. The Company records unfunded commitments intended for sale and forward sales agreements at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of
Mortgage Banking Income.  TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 
Transfers of financial assets, are accounted for as sales when control over the assets has been surrendered. Control over transferred
assets is deemed to be surrendered when (1) the assets have been isolated from the Company, (2) the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of that right) to pledge or exchange the
transferred assets, and (3) the Company does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets through an agreement to repurchase them before their maturity.  RETIREMENT PLANS  The Company has various retirement plans in place
for current and former employees including postretirement benefit plans, supplemental executive retirement plans and a frozen multiemployer pension plan.  The postretirement benefit plans and the supplemental executive retirement plans are unfunded and therefore have no plan assets. The actuarial cost method used to compute the benefit liabilities and
related expense is the projected unit credit method. The projected benefit obligation is principally determined based on the present value of the projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount rate. The discount rate which is utilized is
based on the investment yield of high quality corporate bonds available in the market place with maturities approximately equal to projected cash flows of future benefit payments as of the measurement date.

  81 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Periodic benefit expense (or income) includes service costs and interest costs based on the assumed discount rate based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of
actuarial gains and losses. The underfunded status of the plans is recorded as a liability on the balance sheet, with changes in that status recognized through other comprehensive income, net of related taxes. 
The multiemployer pension plan assets are determined based on fair value, generally representing observable market prices. The actuarial
cost method used to compute the pension liabilities and related expense is the unit credit method. The projected benefit obligation is principally determined based on the present value of the projected benefit distributions at an assumed discount
rate. The discount rate which is utilized is based on the 24 month segment rate as published by the Internal Revenue Service. The pension expense is equal to the contributions made by the Company during the plan year. 
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  The Company recognizes stock-based compensation based on the grant-date fair value of the award adjusted for forfeitures. The Company values share-based stock option awards granted using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model. The Company recognizes compensation expense for its awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award (straight-line attribution method), ensuring that the amount of compensation cost
recognized at any date at least equals the portion of the grant-date fair value of the award that is vested at that time. 
INCOME TAXES  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using the asset and liability (or balance sheet) method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. If current available information raises doubt as to the
realization of the deferred tax assets, a valuation allowance is established. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected
to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in enacted tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Income taxes are allocated to each entity in the consolidated
group based on its share of taxable income. Management exercises significant judgment in evaluating the amount and timing of recognition of the resulting tax liabilities and assets, including projections of future taxable income. Additionally, a
liability for unrecognized tax benefits is recorded for uncertain tax positions taken by the Company on its tax returns for which there is less than a 50% likelihood of being recognized upon a tax examination. 
Tax credits generated from the New Markets Tax Credit program are reflected in earnings when realized for federal income tax purposes.
 ASSETS UNDER ADMINISTRATION  Assets held in a fiduciary or agency capacity for customers are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, as such assets are not assets of the Company. Revenue from administrative and
management activities associated with these assets is recorded on an accrual basis.  EARNINGS PER SHARE
 Basic earnings per share is calculated using the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation
formula under which earnings per share is calculated from common stock and participating securities 
  82 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

according to dividends declared and participation rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings distributed and undistributed, are allocated to participating securities and
common shares based on their respective rights to receive dividends. Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities (i.e. unvested restricted stock), not subject to
performance based measures. Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding (inclusive of participating securities). Diluted earnings per
share have been calculated in a manner similar to that of basic earnings per share except that the weighted average number of common shares outstanding is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would have been outstanding
if all potentially dilutive common shares (such as those resulting from the exercise of stock options or the attainment of performance measures) were issued during the period, computed using the treasury stock method. 
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale, unrealized losses related to
factors other than credit on debt securities, unrealized gains and losses on cash flow hedges, deferred gains on hedge accounting transactions, and changes in the funded status of the Company’s postretirement and supplemental retirement plans.
 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS  In general, fair values of financial instruments are based upon quoted market prices, where available. If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon developed models that
primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial statements are recorded at fair value. These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the
Company’s creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable parameters.  RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
 Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic
No. 210 “Balance Sheet — Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities” Update No. 2011-11.    Issued in December 2011, this update requires an entity to disclose information about offsetting
and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. The amendments in this update are effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2013 and interim periods within those annual periods. The amendments should be applied retrospectively for all prior periods presented. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial position.  FASB ASC Topic No. 715 “Compensation — Retirement Benefits
— Multiemployer Plans” Update No. 2011-09.    Issued in September 2011, this update requires additional separate quantitative and qualitative disclosures for multiemployer pension plans and multiemployer other
postretirement benefit plans. The amended disclosures provide users with more detailed information about an employer’s involvement in multiemployer pension plans. The amendments in this update are effective for annual periods for fiscal years
ending after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The amendments should be applied retrospectively for all prior periods presented. The adoption of this standard did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial
position.  FASB ASC Topic No. 350 “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other” Update
No. 2011-08.    Issued in September 2011, this update gives an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the 
  83 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the
totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. However, if an entity
concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the two-step impairment test. Additionally, under the amendments in this update, an entity has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed
directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test. The amendments are effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is
permitted. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position.  FASB ASC Topic No. 220 “Comprehensive Income” Update No. 2011-05 and Update no. 2011-12.    Update No. 2011-05 was issued in June 2011, and provided
amendments to Topic No. 220, “Comprehensive Income”, stating that an entity has the option to present total comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income in a single continuous
statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a
total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. The entity is no longer permitted to present the components of other comprehensive income within the statement of stockholders’ equity. Update 2011-12 deferred
the component of Update 2011-05 which required entities to present separately on the income statement, reclassification adjustments between other comprehensive income and net income. The amendments in these updates should be applied retrospectively
and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the
Company’s consolidated financial position.  FASB ASC Topic No. 820 “Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”) and International Financial Report Standards (“IFRS”)” Update
No. 2011-04.    Issued in May 2011, the amendments in this update result in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The amendments change the wording used to describe many of the
requirements in U.S. GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. This update does require additional disclosures pertaining to transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 investments, sensitivity analysis on
Level 3 investments, and additional categorization of disclosed fair value amounts. The amendments in this update are to be applied prospectively and are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Early
application is not permitted. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position.  FASB ASC Topic No. 860, “Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements” Update No. 2011-03.    Issued in April 2011, the amendments in this
update remove, from the assessment of effective control, the criterion relating to the transferor’s ability to repurchase or redeem financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even in the event of default by the transferee. The
amendments in this update also eliminate the requirement to demonstrate that the transferor possesses adequate collateral to fund substantially all of the cost of purchasing replacement financial assets. The amendments in this update are effective
for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after the effective date. Early adoption is not
permitted. The Company does not anticipate the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position.  FASB ASC Topic No. 310, “A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring” Update No. 2011-02.    Issued in April
2011, this update provides guidance and clarification to 
  84 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

help creditors in determining whether a creditor has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties for purposes of determining whether a restructuring
constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. In addition, the previously deferred disclosure requirements originally included in Update No. 2010-20 are effective upon adoption of this standard. The amendments in this update were effective the
quarter ended September 30, 2011 and did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position. 
(2)    ACQUISITIONS 
On April 10, 2009 the Company completed its acquisition of Benjamin Franklin Bancorp., Inc. (“Ben
Franklin”), the parent of Benjamin Franklin Bank. The transaction qualified as a tax-free reorganization for federal income tax purposes, and former Ben Franklin shareholders received 0.59 shares of the Company’s common stock for each
share of Ben Franklin common stock which they owned. Under the terms of the merger, cash was issued in lieu of fractional shares. Based upon the Company’s $18.27 per share closing price on April 9, 2009, the transaction was valued at
$10.7793 per share of Ben Franklin common stock or approximately $84.5 million in the aggregate. As a result of the acquisition, the Company’s outstanding shares increased by 4,624,948 shares. 
The Company accounted for the acquisition using the acquisition method pursuant to the Business Combinations Topic of the FASB ASC.
Accordingly, the Company recorded merger and acquisition expenses of $12.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally, the acquisition method requires an acquirer to recognize the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed
at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of the acquisition. 
 








 
  
Net Assets Acquired
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Assets:
  




 Cash
  
$
98,089
  

 Investments
  
 
147,548
  

 Loans, net
  
 
687,444
  

 Premises and Equipment
  
 
5,919
  

 Goodwill
  
 
12,193
  

 Core Deposit & Other Intangible
  
 
7,616
  

 Other Assets
  
 
47,639
  


  
  
  
 

 Total Assets Acquired
  
 
1,006,448
  

 Liabilities:
  




 Deposits
  
 
701,407
  

 Borrowings
  
 
196,105
  

 Other Liabilities
  
 
24,433
  


  
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities Assumed
  
 
921,945
  


  
  
  
 

 Purchase Price
  
$
84,503
  


  
  
  
 
 As noted above, the Company acquired loans at fair value of $687.4 million. Included in this amount were
$3.9 million of loans with evidence of deterioration of credit quality since origination for which it was probable, at the time of the acquisition, that the Company would be unable to collect all contractually required payments receivable. The
Company’s evaluation of loans with evidence of loan deterioration as of the acquisition date resulted in a nonaccretable difference of $806,000, which is defined as the loan’s contractually required payments receivable in excess of the
amount of its cash flows expected to be collected. The Company considered factors such as payment history, collateral values, and accrual status when determining whether there was 
  85 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

evidence of deterioration of loan’s credit quality at the acquisition date. As of December 31, 2009 the carrying amount of these loans with evidence of loan deterioration was $1.8
million and there was a nonaccretable difference of $14,000 at December 31, 2009. The majority of the decrease in the nonaccretable difference during 2009 was due to loan charge-offs, with the remainder of the decrease being amortized into
interest income. As of December 31, 2011 these loans have been paid off.  A core deposit intangible of $6.6 million was
recorded with an expected life of ten years. There was an additional $650,000 of other intangibles recorded related to noncompete agreements with a life of one year, and other various intangibles of $340,000. 
The following summarizes the unaudited pro forma results of operations as if the Company acquired Ben Franklin on January 1, 2009
(2008 amounts represent combined results for the Company and Ben Franklin).   












 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 

 Net Interest Income after Provision for Loan Losses
  
$
137,369
  
  
$
130,301
  

 Net Income
  
 
33,953
  
  
 
27,633
  

 Earnings Per Share- Basic
  
$
1.66
  
  
$
1.37
  

 Earnings Per Share- Diluted
  
$
1.65
  
  
$
1.38
  
 Excluded from the pro forma results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 are merger
costs, net of tax, of $9.3 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, respectively, primarily made up of the acceleration of certain compensation and benefit costs arising due to the change in control and other merger expenses. 
(3)    SECURITIES 
Trading securities, at fair value, consist of the following: 
 












 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Cash Equivalents
  
$
93
  
  
$
111
  

 Fixed Income Securities
  
 
2,242
  
  
 
1,584
  

 Marketable Equity Securities
  
 
5,905
  
  
 
5,902
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
8,240
  
  
$
7,597
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The majority of trading securities are held solely for the purpose of funding certain executive
nonqualified retirement obligations (see Note 14 “Employee Benefit Plans”). The remainder of the portfolio is comprised of equity securities, which consists of a fund whose investment objective is to invest in geographically
specific private placement debt securities designed to support underlining economic activities such as community development and affordable housing. The Company realized a gain on trading activities of $122,000 in 2011, a gain of $150,000 in 2010,
and a loss of $215,000 in 2009, which have been included in other income. 
  86 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table presents a summary of the amortized cost, gross unrealized holding
gains and losses, other-than-temporary impairment recorded in other comprehensive income and fair value of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity for the periods indicated: 
 












































 
 
December 31, 2011
 
 
December 31, 2010
 

 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
UnrealizedLossesOther
 
 
Other-Than-TemporaryImpairment
 
 
FairValue
 
 
AmortizedCost
 
 
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
 
UnrealizedLossesOther
 
 
Other-Than-TemporaryImpairment
 
 
FairValue
 

 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Available for Sale Securities
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury Securities
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
715
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
717
  

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
222,349
  
 
 
16,042
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
238,391
  
 
 
296,821
  
 
 
16,481
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
313,302
  

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
 
 
52,927
  
 
 
874
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
53,801
  
 
 
45,426
  
 
 
779
  
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
46,135
  

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
6,215
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
6,110
  
 
 
10,408
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(154
) 
 
 
10,254
  

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks
 
 
5,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(790
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,210
  
 
 
5,000
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(779
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,221
  

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
 
 
8,505
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
(3,167
) 
 
 
2,820
  
 
 
8,550
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,309
) 
 
 
(3,413
) 
 
 
2,828
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Available for Sale Securities
 
$
294,996
  
 
$
16,916
  
 
$
(3,308
) 
 
$
(3,272
) 
 
$
305,332
  
 
$
366,920
  
 
$
17,262
  
 
$
(3,158
) 
 
$
(3,567
) 
 
$
377,457
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Held to Maturity Securities
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Treasury Securities
 
$
1,014
  
 
$
103
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
1,117
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
109,553
  
 
 
4,406
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
113,959
  
 
 
95,697
  
 
 
1,348
  
 
 
(1,778
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
95,267
  

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
 
 
77,804
  
 
 
2,494
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
80,298
  
 
 
89,823
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
(1,691
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
88,732
  

 State, County, and Municipal Securities
 
 
3,576
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3,610
  
 
 
10,562
  
 
 
167
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,729
  

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks
 
 
8,000
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
(669
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
7,346
  
 
 
6,650
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
(163
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
6,506
  

 Corporate Debt Securities
 
 
5,009
  
 
 
155
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
5,164
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Held to Maturity Securities
 
$
204,956
  
 
$
7,207
  
 
$
(669
) 
 
$
 —
  
 
$
211,494
  
 
$
202,732
  
 
$
2,134
  
 
$
(3,632
) 
 
$
 —
  
 
$
201,234
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
$
499,952
  
 
$
24,123
  
 
$
(3,977
) 
 
$
(3,272
) 
 
$
516,826
  
 
$
569,652
  
 
$
19,396
  
 
$
(6,790
) 
 
$
(3,567
) 
 
$
578,691
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 When securities are sold, the adjusted cost of the specific security sold is used to compute the gain or
loss on the sale. The following table shows the gross realized gains and losses on available for sale securities for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Gross Gains on Available for Sale Securities
  
$
723
  
  
$
458
  
  
$
1,379
  

 Gross Losses on Available for Sale Securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
(25
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 NET GAINS (LOSSES) ON AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES
  
$
723
  
  
$
458
  
  
$
1,354
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  87 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The actual maturities of certain securities may differ from the contractual maturities
because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties. A schedule of the contractual maturities of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity as of December 31, 2011 is
presented below:   




















 
  
Available for Sale
 
  
Held to Maturity
 

 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 
  
AmortizedCost
 
  
FairValue
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Due in one year or less
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
330
  
  
$
334
  

 Due from one year to five years
  
 
2,553
  
  
 
2,717
  
  
 
7,891
  
  
 
8,099
  

 Due from five to ten years
  
 
57,454
  
  
 
61,064
  
  
 
2,618
  
  
 
2,806
  

 Due after ten years
  
 
234,989
  
  
 
241,551
  
  
 
194,117
  
  
 
200,255
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
294,996
  
  
$
305,332
  
  
$
204,956
  
  
$
211,494
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Inclusive in the table above is $13.0 million and $24.3 million, of callable securities in the
Company’s investment portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  At December 31, 2011 and 2010,
investment securities carried at $389.7 million and $350.3 million, respectively, were pledged to secure public deposits, assets sold under repurchase agreements, treasury tax and loan notes, letters of credit, and for other purposes. 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had no investments in obligations of individual states, counties, or municipalities,
which exceeded 10% of stockholders’ equity.  Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
The Company continually reviews investment securities for the existence of OTTI, taking into consideration current market conditions, the
extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, the credit worthiness of the obligor of the security, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, the Company’s intent to sell the security, or
whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery, as well as other qualitative factors. The term “other-than-temporary” is not intended to indicate that the
decline is permanent, but indicates that the prospects for a near-term recovery of value is not necessarily favorable, or that there is a lack of evidence to support a realizable value equal to or greater than the carrying value of the investment.

  88 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following tables show the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the
Company’s investments in an unrealized loss position, which the Company has not deemed to be OTTI, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position: 
 
































 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2011
 

 
 
 
 
 
Less than 12 months
 
 
12 months or longer
 
 
Total
 

 Description of Securities
 
# ofholdings
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 

 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
0
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
 
 
0
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
8,617
  
 
 
(1,459
) 
 
 
8,617
  
 
 
(1,459
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,117
  
 
 
(2,518
) 
 
 
2,117
  
 
 
(2,518
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Temporarily Impaired Securities
 
 
4
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
10,734
  
 
$
(3,977
) 
 
$
10,734
  
 
$
(3,977
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
Less than 12 months
 
 
12 months or longer
 
 
Total
 

 Description of Securities
 
# ofholdings
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 
 
FairValue
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
UnrealizedLosses
 

 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
 
 
4
  
 
$
48,956
  
 
$
(1,778
) 
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
48,956
  
 
$
(1,778
) 

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
 
 
6
  
 
 
72,631
  
 
 
(1,761
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
72,631
  
 
 
(1,761
) 

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
 
 
2
  
 
 
4,950
  
 
 
(163
) 
 
 
4,221
  
 
 
(779
) 
 
 
9,171
  
 
 
(942
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
 
 
2
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
2,364
  
 
 
(2,309
) 
 
 
2,364
  
 
 
(2,309
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Temporarily Impaired Securities
 
 
14
  
 
$
126,537
  
 
$
(3,702
) 
 
$
6,585
  
 
$
(3,088
) 
 
$
133,122
  
 
$
(6,790
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company does not intend to sell these investments and has determined based upon available evidence
that it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis. As a result, the Company does not consider these investments to be OTTI. The Company made this determination
by reviewing various qualitative and quantitative factors regarding each investment category, such as current market conditions, extent and nature of changes in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, and current
analysts’ evaluations.  As a result of the Company’s review of these qualitative and quantitative factors, the
causes of the impairments listed in the table above by category are as follows at December 31, 2011:   


 
•
 
 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities:    This portfolio consists of two securities, both of which are below investment
grade. The unrealized loss on these securities is attributable to the illiquid nature of the trust preferred market in the current economic environment. Management evaluates various financial metrics for each of the issuers, including regulatory
capital ratios of issuers. 
  89 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


 
•
 
 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities:    This portfolio consists of two below investment grade securities of which one is
performing while the other is deferring payments as contractually allowed. The unrealized loss on these securities is attributable to the illiquid nature of the trust preferred market and the significant risk premiums required in the current
economic environment. Management evaluates collateral credit and instrument structure, including current and expected deferral and default rates and timing. In addition, discount rates are determined by evaluating comparable spreads observed
currently in the market for similar instruments.  Management monitors the following issuances closely for
impairment due to the history of OTTI losses recorded within these classes of securities. Management has determined that the securities possess characteristics which in the current economic environment could lead to further credit related OTTI
charges. The following tables summarize pertinent information as of December 31, 2011, that was considered by management in determining if OTTI existed:   
































 
  
Class
 
  
AmortizedCost(1)
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGain/(Loss)
 
 
Non-CreditRelated Other-Than-TemporaryImpairment
 
 
FairValue
 
  
TotalCumulativeCreditRelatedOther-Than-TemporaryImpairment
 
 
TotalCumulativeOther-Than-Temporaryimpairmentto date
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities
  



  



  



 



 



  



 




 Pooled Trust Preferred Security A
  
 
C1
  
  
$
1,283
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
(1,139
) 
 
$
144
  
  
$
(3,676
) 
 
$
(4,815
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security B
  
 
D
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(3,481
) 
 
 
(3,481
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security C
  
 
C1
  
  
 
506
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(390
) 
 
 
116
  
  
 
(482
) 
 
 
(872
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security D
  
 
D
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  
 
(990
) 
 
 
(990
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security E
  
 
C1
  
  
 
2,081
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
(1,638
) 
 
 
443
  
  
 
(1,368
) 
 
 
(3,006
) 

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security F
  
 
B
  
  
 
1,891
  
  
 
(1,322
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
569
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security G
  
 
A1
  
  
 
2,744
  
  
 
(1,196
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,548
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL POOLED TRUST PREFERRED SECURITIES
  



  
$
8,505
  
  
$
(2,518
) 
 
$
(3,167
) 
 
$
2,820
  
  
$
(9,997
) 
 
$
(13,164
) 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
  



  



  



 



 



  



 




 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities — One
  
 
2A1
  
  
$
3,189
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
(140
) 
 
$
3,049
  
  
$
(689
) 
 
$
(829
) 

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities — Two
  
 
A19
  
  
 
3,026
  
  
 
—
  
 
 
35
  
 
 
3,061
  
  
 
(85
) 
 
 
(50
) 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL PRIVATE MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
  



  
$
6,215
  
  
$
 —
  
 
$
(105
) 
 
$
6,110
  
  
$
(774
) 
 
$
(879
) 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  



  
$
14,720
  
  
$
(2,518
) 
 
$
(3,272
) 
 
$
8,930
  
  
$
(10,771
) 
 
$
(14,043
) 


  



  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The amortized cost reflects previously recorded credit related OTTI charges recognized in earnings for the applicable securities. 
  90 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


























 
 
Class
 
 
Number ofPerformingBanks andInsuranceCos. inIssuances(Unique)
 
 
CurrentDeferrals/Defaults/Losses (Asa % ofOriginalCollateral)
 
 
TotalProjectedDefaults/Losses (asa % ofPerformingCollateral)
 
 
ExcessSubordination(After Takinginto AccountBest Estimateof
FutureDeferrals/Defaults/Losses)(1)
 
 
Lowest creditRatings to date(2)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities
 



 



 



 



 



 


 Pooled Trust Preferred Security A
 
 
C1
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
34.39
% 
 
 
22.20
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
C (Fitch & Moody’s)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security B
 
 
D
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
34.39
% 
 
 
22.20
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
C (Fitch)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security C
 
 
C1
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
32.95
% 
 
 
20.43
% 
 
 
0.70
% 
 
C (Fitch & Moody’s)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security D
 
 
D
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
32.95
% 
 
 
20.43
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
C (Fitch)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security E
 
 
C1
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
28.26
% 
 
 
17.21
% 
 
 
1.61
% 
 
C (Fitch & Moody’s)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security F
 
 
B
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
28.14
% 
 
 
24.36
% 
 
 
26.79
% 
 
CC (Fitch)

 Pooled Trust Preferred Security G
 
 
A1
  
 
 
33
  
 
 
28.14
% 
 
 
24.36
% 
 
 
52.19
% 
 
CCC+ (S&P)

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
 



 



 



 



 



 


 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities — One
 
 
2A1
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
4.14
% 
 
 
13.47
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
C (Fitch)

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities — Two
 
 
A19
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
2.63
% 
 
 
5.78
% 
 
 
0.00
% 
 
B3 (Moody’s)
  


(1)
Excess subordination represents the additional default/losses in excess of both current and projected defaults/losses that the security can absorb before the security
experiences any credit impairment.   


(2)
The Company reviewed credit ratings provided by S&P, Moody’s and Fitch in its evaluation of issuers. 
Per review of the factors outlined above, seven of the securities shown in the table above were deemed to be OTTI. The remaining
securities were not deemed to be OTTI as the Company does not intend to sell these investments and has determined, based upon available evidence, that it is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the security before the
recovery of its amortized cost basis.  The following table shows the total OTTI that the Company recorded for the periods
indicated:   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Gross Change in OTTI Recorded on Certain Investments (Gain/(Losses))
  
$
53
  
 
$
497
  
 
$
(7,382
) 

 Portion of OTTI Gains (Losses) Recognized in OCI
  
 
(296
) 
 
 
(831
) 
 
 
(1,576
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Credit Related OTTI Losses Recognized in Earnings
  
$
(243
) 
 
$
(334
) 
 
$
(8,958
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table shows the cumulative credit related component of OTTI for the periods indicated:
  
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Balance at January 1,
  
$
(10,528
) 
 
$
(10,194
) 
 
$
(1,236
) 

 Add:
  



 



 




 Incurred on Securities not Previously Impaired
  
 
—
  
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
(3,993
) 

 Incurred on Securities Previously Impaired
  
 
(243
) 
 
 
(249
) 
 
 
(4,965
) 

 Less:
  



 



 




 Realized Gain/Loss on Sale of Securities
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Reclassification Due to Changes in Company’s Intent
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Increases in Cash Flow Expected to be Collected
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31,
  
$
(10,771
) 
 
$
(10,528
) 
 
$
(10,194
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  91 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(4)    LOANS, ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES AND CREDIT QUALITY 
The following table summarizes changes in the allowance for loan losses by loan category and bifurcates the amount of
allowance allocated to each loan category based on collective impairment analysis and loans evaluated individually for impairment:   




































 
 
As of December 31,
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2011
 
CommercialandIndustrial
 
 
CommercialReal Estate
 
 
CommercialConstruction
 
 
SmallBusiness
 
 
ResidentialRealEstate
 
 
ConsumerHomeEquity
 
 
ConsumerOther
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Beginning Balance
 
$
10,423
  
 
$
21,939
  
 
$
2,145
  
 
$
3,740
  
 
$
2,915
  
 
$
3,369
  
 
$
1,724
  
 
$
46,255
  

 Charge-offs
 
 
2,888
  
 
 
2,631
  
 
 
769
  
 
 
1,190
  
 
 
559
  
 
 
1,626
  
 
 
1,678
  
 
 
11,341
  

 Recoveries
 
 
420
  
 
 
97
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
160
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
52
  
 
 
635
  
 
 
1,864
  

 Provision
 
 
3,727
  
 
 
4,109
  
 
 
200
  
 
 
(814
) 
 
 
757
  
 
 
2,802
  
 
 
701
  
 
 
11,482
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending Balance
 
$
11,682
  
 
$
23,514
  
 
$
2,076
  
 
$
1,896
  
 
$
3,113
  
 
$
4,597
  
 
$
1,382
  
 
$
48,260
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
562
  
 
$
457
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
148
  
 
$
1,245
  
 
$
31
  
 
$
239
  
 
$
2,682
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
11,120
  
 
$
23,057
  
 
$
2,076
  
 
$
1,748
  
 
$
1,868
  
 
$
4,566
  
 
$
1,143
  
 
$
45,578
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing Receivables:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Ending balance: total loans by group
 
$
575,716
  
 
$
1,847,654
  
 
$
128,904
  
 
$
78,509
  
 
$
426,201
  
 
$
696,063
  
 
$
41,343
  
 
$
3,794,390
(1) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
5,608
  
 
$
37,476
  
 
$
843
  
 
$
2,326
  
 
$
12,984
  
 
$
326
  
 
$
2,138
  
 
$
61,701
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
570,108
  
 
$
1,810,178
  
 
$
128,061
  
 
$
76,183
  
 
$
413,217
  
 
$
695,737
  
 
$
39,205
  
 
$
3,732,689
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 











 2010
 
CommercialandIndustrial
 
 
CommercialReal Estate
 
 
CommercialConstruction
 
 
SmallBusiness
 
 
ResidentialRealEstate
 
 
ConsumerHomeEquity
 
 
ConsumerOther
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Beginning Balance
 
$
7,545
  
 
$
19,451
  
 
$
2,457
  
 
$
3,372
  
 
$
2,840
  
 
$
3,945
  
 
$
2,751
  
 
$
42,361
  

 Charge-offs
 
 
5,170
  
 
 
3,448
  
 
 
1,716
  
 
 
2,279
  
 
 
557
  
 
 
939
  
 
 
2,078
  
 
 
16,187
  

 Recoveries
 
 
361
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
657
  
 
 
1,426
  

 Provision
 
 
7,687
  
 
 
5,935
  
 
 
1,404
  
 
 
2,430
  
 
 
573
  
 
 
232
  
 
 
394
  
 
 
18,655
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending Balance
 
$
10,423
  
 
$
21,939
  
 
$
2,145
  
 
$
3,740
  
 
$
2,915
  
 
$
3,369
  
 
$
1,724
  
 
$
46,255
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
511
  
 
$
411
  
 
$
151
  
 
$
221
  
 
$
991
  
 
$
17
  
 
$
245
  
 
$
2,547
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
9,912
  
 
$
21,528
  
 
$
1,994
  
 
$
3,519
  
 
$
1,924
  
 
$
3,352
  
 
$
1,479
  
 
$
43,708
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing Receivables:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Ending balance: total loans by group
 
$
502,952
  
 
$
1,717,118
  
 
$
129,421
  
 
$
80,026
  
 
$
478,111
  
 
$
579,278
  
 
$
68,773
  
 
$
3,555,679
(1) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
3,823
  
 
$
26,665
  
 
$
1,999
  
 
$
2,494
  
 
$
9,963
  
 
$
428
  
 
$
2,014
  
 
$
47,386
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
499,129
  
 
$
1,690,453
  
 
$
127,422
  
 
$
77,532
  
 
$
468,148
  
 
$
578,850
  
 
$
66,759
  
 
$
3,508,293
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  92 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
 




































 2009
 
CommercialandIndustrial
 
 
CommercialReal Estate
 
 
CommercialConstruction
 
 
SmallBusiness
 
 
ResidentialRealEstate
 
 
ConsumerHomeEquity
 
 
ConsumerOther
 
 
Total
 

 Allowance for Loan Losses:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Beginning Balance
 
$
5,532
  
 
$
15,942
  
 
$
4,203
  
 
$
2,170
  
 
$
2,447
  
 
$
3,091
  
 
$
3,664
  
 
$
37,049
  

 Charge-offs
 
 
1,663
  
 
 
834
  
 
 
2,679
  
 
 
2,047
  
 
 
829
  
 
 
1,799
  
 
 
3,404
  
 
 
13,255
  

 Recoveries
 
 
27
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
204
  
 
 
105
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
855
  
 
 
1,232
  

 Provision
 
 
3,649
  
 
 
4,343
  
 
 
933
  
 
 
3,045
  
 
 
1,117
  
 
 
2,612
  
 
 
1,636
  
 
 
17,335
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending Balance
 
$
7,545
  
 
$
19,451
  
 
$
2,457
  
 
$
3,372
  
 
$
2,840
  
 
$
3,945
  
 
$
2,751
  
 
$
42,361
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
403
  
 
$
257
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
346
  
 
$
584
  
 
$
7
  
 
$
175
  
 
$
1,772
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
7,142
  
 
$
19,194
  
 
$
2,457
  
 
$
3,026
  
 
$
2,256
  
 
$
3,938
  
 
$
2,576
  
 
$
40,589
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing Receivables:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Ending balance: total loans by group
 
$
373,531
  
 
$
1,614,474
  
 
$
175,312
  
 
$
82,569
  
 
$
566,042
  
 
$
471,862
  
 
$
111,725
  
 
$
3,395,515
(1) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment
 
$
4,603
  
 
$
17,505
  
 
$
9,261
  
 
$
1,482
  
 
$
8,385
  
 
$
170
  
 
$
1,323
  
 
$
42,729
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment
 
$
368,928
  
 
$
1,596,969
  
 
$
166,051
  
 
$
81,087
  
 
$
557,657
  
 
$
471,692
  
 
$
110,402
  
 
$
3,352,786
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The amount of deferred fees included in the ending balance was $2.9 million, $2.8 million, and $3.4 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
 For the purpose of estimating the allowance for loan losses, management segregates the loan portfolio into the
portfolio segments detailed in the above tables. Each of these loan categories possesses unique risk characteristics that are considered when determining the appropriate level of allowance for each segment. Some of the risk characteristics
unique to each loan category include:  Commercial Portfolio: 
Commercial & Industrial — Loans in this category consist of revolving and term loan obligations extended to
business and corporate enterprises for the purpose of financing working capital and/or capital investment. Collateral generally consists of pledges of business assets including, but not limited to: accounts receivable, inventory,
plant & equipment, or real estate, if applicable. Repayment sources consist of: primarily, operating cash flow, and secondarily, liquidation of assets.  Commercial Real Estate — Loans in this category consist of mortgage loans to finance investment in real property such as multi-family residential, commercial/retail, office, industrial,
hotels, educational and healthcare facilities and other specific use properties. Loans are typically written with amortizing payment structures. Collateral values are determined based upon third party appraisals and evaluations. Loan
to value ratios at origination are governed by established policy and regulatory guidelines. Repayment sources consist of: primarily, cash flow from operating leases and rents, and secondarily, liquidation of assets.
Commercial Construction — Loans in this category consist of short-term construction loans, revolving and nonrevolving
credit lines and construction/permanent loans to finance the acquisition, development and construction or rehabilitation of real property. Project types include: residential 1-4 family condominium and multi-family homes, commercial/retail,
office, industrial, hotels, educational and healthcare facilities and other specific use properties. Loans may be written with nonamortizing or hybrid payment structures depending upon the type of project. Collateral values are determined
based upon third party appraisals and evaluations. Loan to value ratios at origination are governed by established policy and regulatory guidelines. Repayment sources vary depending upon the type of project and may consist of: sale or
lease of units, operating cash flows or liquidation of other assets.
  93 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Small Business — Loans in this category consist of revolving, term
loan and mortgage obligations extended to sole proprietors and small businesses for purposes of financing working capital and/or capital investment. Collateral generally consists of pledges of business assets including, but not limited to:
accounts receivable, inventory, plant & equipment, or real estate (if applicable). Repayment sources consist of: primarily, operating cash flows, and secondarily, liquidation of assets. 
For the commercial portfolio it is the Bank’s policy to obtain personal guarantees for payment from individuals holding material
ownership interests of the borrowing entities.  Consumer Portfolio: 
Residential Real Estate — Residential mortgage loans held in the Bank’s portfolio are made to borrowers who
demonstrate the ability to make scheduled payments with full consideration to underwriting factors such as current and expected income, employment status, current assets, other financial resources, credit history and the value of the
collateral. Collateral consists of mortgage liens on 1-4 family residential properties. The Company does not originate sub-prime loans. Consumer Home Equity — Home equity loans and lines are made to qualified individuals for legitimate purposes secured by senior or junior mortgage liens on owner-occupied 1-4 family
homes, condominiums or vacation homes or on nonowner occupied 1-4 family homes with more restrictive loan to value requirements. Borrower qualifications include favorable credit history combined with supportive income requirements and combined
loan to value ratios within established policy guidelines. Consumer — Other — Other consumer loan
products including personal lines of credit and amortizing loans made to qualified individuals for various purposes such as education, auto loans, debt consolidation, personal expenses or overdraft protection. Borrower qualifications include
favorable credit history combined with supportive income and collateral requirements within established policy guidelines. Consumer — Other loans may be secured or unsecured.
Credit Quality:  The Company continually monitors the asset quality of the loan portfolio using all available information. Based on this information, loans demonstrating certain payment issues or other weaknesses may be
categorized as delinquent, impaired, nonperforming and/or put on nonaccrual status. Additionally, in the course of resolving such loans, the Company may choose to restructure the contractual terms of certain loans to match the borrower’s
ability to repay the loan based on their current financial condition. If a restructured loan meets certain criteria, it may be categorized as a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”). 
The Company reviews numerous credit quality indicators when assessing the risk in its loan portfolio. For the commercial portfolio, the
Company utilizes a 10-point commercial risk-rating system, which assigns a risk-grade to each borrower based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors associated with a commercial loan transaction. Factors considered include industry and
market conditions, position within the industry, earnings trends, operating cash flow, asset/liability values, debt capacity, guarantor strength, management and controls, financial reporting, collateral, and other considerations. The risk-ratings
categories are defined as follows:  1- 6 Rating — Pass  Risk-rating grades “1” through “6” comprise those loans ranging from ‘Substantially Risk Free’ which indicates borrowers are of unquestioned credit standing and the pinnacle
of credit quality, well established companies with a very strong financial condition, and loans fully secured by cash collateral, through ‘Acceptable 
  94 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

Risk’, which indicates borrowers may exhibit declining earnings, strained cash flow, increasing leverage and/or weakening market fundamentals that indicate above average or below average
asset quality, margins and market share. Collateral coverage is protective.  7 Rating — Potential Weakness 
Borrowers exhibit potential credit weaknesses or downward trends deserving management’s close attention. If not checked or corrected, these trends
will weaken the Bank’s asset and position. While potentially weak, currently these borrowers are marginally acceptable; no loss of principal or interest is envisioned.  8 Rating — Definite Weakness  Borrowers exhibit well defined weaknesses that
jeopardize the orderly liquidation of debt. Loan may be inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or by the collateral pledged, if any. Normal repayment from the borrower is in jeopardy, although no loss of
principal is envisioned. However, there is a distinct possibility that a partial loss of interest and/or principal will occur if the deficiencies are not corrected. Collateral coverage may be inadequate to cover the principal obligation. 
9 Rating — Partial Loss Probable  Borrowers exhibit well defined weaknesses that jeopardize the orderly liquidation of debt with the added provision that the weaknesses make collection of the debt in full, on the basis of currently
existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable. Serious problems exist to the point where partial loss of principal is likely.  10 Rating — Definite Loss  Borrowers deemed incapable of repayment. Loans to
such borrowers are considered uncollectible and of such little value that continuation as active assets of the Bank is not warranted.  The credit quality of the commercial loan portfolio is actively monitored and any changes in credit quality are reflected in risk-rating changes. Risk-ratings are assigned or reviewed for all new loans,
when advancing significant additions to existing relationships (over $50,000), at least quarterly for all actively managed loans, and any time a significant event occurs, including at renewal of the loan. 
The Company utilizes a comprehensive strategy for monitoring commercial credit quality. Borrowers are required to provide updated
financial information at least annually which is carefully evaluated for any changes in credit quality. Larger loan relationships are subject to a full annual credit review by an experienced credit analysis group. Additionally, the Company retains
an independent loan review firm to evaluate the credit quality of the commercial loan portfolio. The independent loan review process achieves significant penetration into the commercial loan portfolio and reports the results of these reviews to the
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. 
  95 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table details the internal risk-rating categories for the Company’s
commercial portfolio:   


























 
  
 
  
As of December 31, 2011
 

 Category
  
RiskRating
  
Commercial andIndustrial
 
  
Commercial RealEstate
 
  
CommercialConstruction
 
  
Small Business
 
  
Total
 

 
  
 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Pass
  
1 - 6
  
$
528,798
  
  
$
1,626,745
  
  
$
114,633
  
  
$
70,543
  
  
$
2,340,719
  

 Potential Weakness
  
7
  
 
33,313
  
  
 
124,661
  
  
 
7,859
  
  
 
4,041
  
  
 
169,874
  

 Definite Weakness
  
8
  
 
12,683
  
  
 
93,438
  
  
 
6,412
  
  
 
3,762
  
  
 
116,295
  

 Partial Loss Probable
  
9
  
 
922
  
  
 
2,810
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
163
  
  
 
3,895
  

 Definite Loss
  
10
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  

  
$
575,716
  
  
$
1,847,654
  
  
$
128,904
  
  
$
78,509
  
  
$
2,630,783
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 
  
 
  
As of December 31, 2010
 

 Category
  
RiskRating
  
Commercial andIndustrial
 
  
Commercial RealEstate
 
  
CommercialConstruction
 
  
Small Business
 
  
Total
 

 
  
 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Pass
  
1 - 6
  
$
445,116
  
  
$
1,496,822
  
  
$
110,549
  
  
$
70,987
  
  
$
2,123,474
  

 Potential Weakness
  
7
  
 
30,250
  
  
 
99,400
  
  
 
6,311
  
  
 
5,252
  
  
 
141,213
  

 Definite Weakness
  
8
  
 
25,864
  
  
 
117,850
  
  
 
12,561
  
  
 
3,533
  
  
 
159,808
  

 Partial Loss Probable
  
9
  
 
1,722
  
  
 
3,046
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
254
  
  
 
5,022
  

 Definite Loss
  
10
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  

  
$
502,952
  
  
$
1,717,118
  
  
$
129,421
  
  
$
80,026
  
  
$
2,429,517
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For the Company’s consumer portfolio, the quality of the loan is best indicated by the repayment
performance of an individual borrower. However, the Company does supplement performance data with current Fair Isaac Corporation (“FICO”) and Loan to Value (“LTV”) estimates. Current FICO data is purchased and appended to all
consumer loans on a quarterly basis. In addition, automated valuation services and broker opinions of value are used to supplement original value data for the residential and home equity portfolios, periodically, typically twice per annum. At
December 31, 2011, 54.8% of the home equity loans were in first lien position. The following table shows the weighted average FICO scores and the weighted average combined LTV ratio for the periods indicated below: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Residential Portfolio
  



 




 FICO Score (re-scored)(1)
  
 
731
  
 
 
738
  

 Combined LTV (re-valued)(2)
  
 
67.0
% 
 
 
64.0
% 

 Home Equity Portfolio
  



 




 FICO Score (re-scored)(1)
  
 
762
  
 
 
760
  

 Combined LTV (re-valued)(2)
  
 
55.0
% 
 
 
55.0
% 
  


(1)
The average FICO scores above are based upon rescores available from November and actual score data for loans booked between December 1 and December 31, for
the years indicated.   


(2)
The combined LTV ratios are based upon updated automated valuations as of November 30, for the years indicated. 






  96 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Bank’s philosophy toward managing its loan portfolios is predicated upon
careful monitoring, which stresses early detection and response to delinquent and default situations. Delinquent loans are managed by a team of seasoned collection specialists and the Bank seeks to make arrangements to resolve any delinquent or
default situation over the shortest possible time frame. As a general rule, loans more than 90 days past due with respect to principal or interest are classified as nonaccrual loans. As permitted by banking regulations, certain consumer loans
past due 90 days or more may continue to accrue interest. The Company also may use discretion regarding other loans over 90 days delinquent if the loan is well secured and in process of collection. Set forth is information regarding the
Company’s nonperforming loans at the period shown.  The following table shows nonaccrual loans at the dates indicated:
  












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 


  



  




 Commercial and Industrial
  
$
1,883
  
  
$
3,123
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
12,829
  
  
 
7,837
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
280
  
  
 
1,999
  

 Small Business
  
 
542
  
  
 
887
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
9,867
  
  
 
6,728
  

 Home Equity
  
 
3,130
  
  
 
1,752
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
422
  
  
 
505
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total nonaccrual loans(1)
  
$
28,953
  
  
$
22,831
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Included in these amounts were $9.2 million and $4.0 million nonaccruing TDRs at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The following table shows the age analysis of past due financing receivables as of the dates indicated: 
 
















































 
 
As of December 31, 2011
 

 
 
30-59 days
 
 
60-89 days
 
 
90 days or more
 
 
Total Past Due
 
 
Current
 
 
TotalFinancingReceivables

 
 
RecordedInvestment
>90 Daysand Accruing
 

 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
 
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Commercial and Industrial
 
 
21
  
 
$
2,143
  
 
 
10
  
 
$
2,709
  
 
 
20
  
 
$
1,279
  
 
 
51
  
 
$
6,131
  
 
$
569,585
  
 
$
575,716
  
 
$
—
  

 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
7
  
 
 
3,684
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
2,522
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
6,737
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
12,943
  
 
 
1,834,711
  
 
 
1,847,654
  
 
 
—
  

 Commercial Construction
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
280
  
 
 
128,624
  
 
 
128,904
  
 
 
—
  

 Small Business
 
 
19
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
489
  
 
 
78,020
  
 
 
78,509
  
 
 
—
  

 Residential Real Estate
 
 
14
  
 
 
2,770
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
3,208
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
6,065
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
12,043
  
 
 
404,527
  
 
 
416,570
  
 
 
—
  

 Residential Construction
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
9,631
  
 
 
9,631
  
 
 
—
  

 Home Equity
 
 
28
  
 
 
1,483
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
1,139
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
66
  
 
 
4,124
  
 
 
691,939
  
 
 
696,063
  
 
 
—
  

 Consumer — Other
 
 
260
  
 
 
1,821
  
 
 
57
  
 
 
303
  
 
 
58
  
 
 
374
  
 
 
375
  
 
 
2,498
  
 
 
38,845
  
 
 
41,343
  
 
 
41
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
 
349
  
 
$
12,221
  
 
 
106
  
 
$
9,902
  
 
 
172
  
 
$
16,385
  
 
 
627
  
 
$
38,508
  
 
$
3,755,882
  
 
$
3,794,390
  
 
$
41
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  97 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 



















































 
 
As of December 31, 2010
 

 
 
30-59 days
 
 
60-89 days
 
 
90 days or more
 
 
Total Past Due
 
 
Current
 
 
TotalFinancingReceivables

 
 
RecordedInvestment
>90 Daysand Accruing
 

 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
Numberof Loans
 
 
PrincipalBalance
 
 
 
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Commercial and Industrial
 
 
16
  
 
$
1,383
  
 
 
8
  
 
$
910
  
 
 
18
  
 
$
2,207
  
 
 
42
  
 
$
4,500
  
 
$
498,452
  
 
$
502,952
  
 
$
 —
  

 Commercial Real Estate
 
 
13
  
 
 
2,809
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
4,820
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
6,260
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
13,889
  
 
 
1,703,229
  
 
 
1,717,118
  
 
 
—
  

 Commercial Construction
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
1,999
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
1,999
  
 
 
127,422
  
 
 
129,421
  
 
 
—
  

 Small Business
 
 
23
  
 
 
1,071
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
420
  
 
 
53
  
 
 
1,793
  
 
 
78,233
  
 
 
80,026
  
 
 
—
  

 Residential Real Estate
 
 
14
  
 
 
4,793
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
865
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
4,050
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
9,708
  
 
 
464,228
  
 
 
473,936
  
 
 
—
  

 Residential Construction
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
4,175
  
 
 
4,175
  
 
 
—
  

 Home Equity
 
 
31
  
 
 
1,737
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
878
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
1,095
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
3,710
  
 
 
575,568
  
 
 
579,278
  
 
 
4
  

 Consumer — Other
 
 
402
  
 
 
2,986
  
 
 
89
  
 
 
478
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
564
  
 
 
576
  
 
 
4,028
  
 
 
64,745
  
 
 
68,773
  
 
 
273
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 
 
499
  
 
$
14,779
  
 
 
129
  
 
$
8,253
  
 
 
193
  
 
$
16,595
  
 
 
821
  
 
$
39,627
  
 
$
3,516,052
  
 
$
3,555,679
  
 
$
277
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In the course of resolving nonperforming loans, the Bank may choose to restructure the contractual terms
of certain loans. The Bank attempts to work-out an alternative payment schedule with the borrower in order to avoid foreclosure actions. Any loans that are modified are reviewed by the Bank to identify if a TDR has occurred, which is when, for
economic or legal reasons related to a borrower’s financial difficulties, the Bank grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. Terms may be modified to fit the ability of the borrower to repay in line with its
current financial status and the restructuring of the loan may include the transfer of assets from the borrower to satisfy the debt, a modification of loan terms, or a combination of the two. 
The following table shows the Company’s total TDRs and other pertinent information as of the dates indicated: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
 (Dollars in Thousands)
 

 TDRs on Accrual Status
  
$
37,151
  
  
$
26,091
  

 TDRs on Nonaccrual Status
  
 
9,230
  
  
 
3,982
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL TDR’S
  
$
46,381
  
  
$
30,073
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Amount of specific reserves included in the allowance for loan loss associated with TDRs:
  
$
1,887
  
  
$
1,658
  

 Additional commitments to lend to a borrower who has been a party to a TDR:
  
$
693
  
  
$
1,240
  
 The Bank’s policy is to have any restructured loan which is on nonaccrual status prior to being
modified remain on nonaccrual status for six months, subsequent to being modified, before management considers its return to accrual status. If the restructured loan is on accrual status prior to being modified, it is reviewed to determine if the
modified loan should remain on accrual status. Additionally, loans classified as TDRs are adjusted to reflect the changes in value of the recorded investment in the loan, if any, resulting from the granting of a concession. For all residential loans
modifications, the borrower must perform during a 90 day trial period before the modification is finalized. 
  98 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table shows the modifications which occurred during the periods indicated
and the change in the recorded investment subsequent to the modifications occurring:   
















 
  
 
 

 For the Year Ended December 31,
  
Numberof Contracts
 
  
Pre-ModificationOutstanding RecordedInvestment
 
  
Post-ModificationOutstanding RecordedInvestment(1)
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2011 Troubled Debt Restructurings
  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
 
11
  
  
$
 1,165
  
  
$
 1,165
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
17
  
  
 
8,707
  
  
 
8,707
  

 Small Business
  
 
37
  
  
 
1,270
  
  
 
1,270
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
16
  
  
 
3,460
  
  
 
3,536
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
2
  
  
 
101
  
  
 
101
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
89
  
  
 
985
  
  
 
985
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
 
172
  
  
$
15,688
  
  
$
15,764
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 2010 Troubled Debt Restructurings
  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
 
11
  
  
$
 1,286
  
  
$
 1,286
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
14
  
  
 
12,491
  
  
 
12,491
  

 Small Business
  
 
47
  
  
 
1,514
  
  
 
1,514
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
19
  
  
 
5,797
  
  
 
5,938
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
4
  
  
 
292
  
  
 
296
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
108
  
  
 
1,405
  
  
 
1,405
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
 
203
  
  
$
22,785
  
  
$
22,930
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 2009 Troubled Debt Restructurings
  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
 
—
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
4
  
  
 
3,424
  
  
 
3,424
  

 Small Business
  
 
9
  
  
 
714
  
  
 
714
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
25
  
  
 
7,864
  
  
 
8,110
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
1
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
48
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
64
  
  
 
1,330
  
  
 
1,330
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
 
103
  
  
$
13,380
  
  
$
13,626
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The post-modification balances represent the balance of the loan on the date of modification. These amounts may show an increase when modifications include a
capitalization of interest. 
  99 


Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table shows the Company’s post-modification balance of TDRs listed by
type of modification as of the periods indicated:   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Extended Maturity
  
$
5,216
  
  
$
10,691
  
  
$
1,734
  

 Adjusted Interest Rate
  
 
1,746
  
  
 
52
  
  
 
218
  

 Combination Rate & Maturity
  
 
8,802
  
  
 
12,187
  
  
 
11,674
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
15,764
  
  
$
22,930
  
  
$
13,626
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table shows the loans that have been modified during the past twelve months which have
subsequently defaulted during the periods indicated. The Company considers a loan to have defaulted when it reaches 90 days past due.   




























 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
Numberof Contracts
 
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
Numberof Contracts
 
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
Numberof Contracts
 
  
RecordedInvestment
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Troubled Debt Restructurings That Subsequently Defaulted
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
 —
  
  
 
—
  
  
$
—
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
263
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Small Business
  
 
5
  
  
 
75
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
500
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
1
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
18
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
42
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 SUBTOTAL
  
 
6
  
  
$
97
  
  
 
5
  
  
$
781
  
  
 
1
  
  
$
42
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 All TDR loans are considered impaired and therefore are subject to a specific review for impairment. The
impairment analysis appropriately discounts the present value of the anticipated cash flows by the loan’s contractual rate of interest in effect prior to the loan’s modification. The amount of impairment, if any, is recorded as a specific
loss allocation to each individual loan in the allowance for loan losses. Commercial loans (commercial and industrial, commercial construction, commercial real estate and small business loans) and residential loans that have been classified as TDRs
and which subsequently default are reviewed to determine if the loan should be deemed collateral dependent. In such an instance, any shortfall between the value of the collateral and the book value of the loan is determined by measuring the recorded
investment in the loan against the fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. The Bank charges off the amount of any confirmed loan loss in the period when the loans, or portion of loans, are deemed uncollectible. Smaller balance consumer TDR
loans are reviewed to determine when a charge-off is appropriate.  A loan is considered impaired when, based on current
information and events, it is probable that the Bank will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining
impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as
impaired. Management determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the
reasons for the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. 
  100



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The table below sets forth information regarding the Company’s impaired loans as of
the dates indicated:   
























 As of and for the Years Ended December 31,
  
 
 

 2011
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 
  
AverageRecordedInvestment
 
  
InterestIncomeRecognized
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 With no Related Allowance Recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
$
3,380
  
  
$
4,365
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
4,672
  
  
$
300
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
19,433
  
  
 
20,010
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
19,760
  
  
 
1,365
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
843
  
  
 
843
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
839
  
  
 
59
  

 Small Business
  
 
1,131
  
  
 
1,193
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,199
  
  
 
84
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
22
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
22
  
  
 
1
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
31
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
35
  
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
24,840
  
  
 
26,465
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
26,527
  
  
 
1,812
  

 With an Allowance Recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
$
2,228
  
  
$
2,280
  
  
$
562
  
  
$
2,244
  
  
$
99
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
18,043
  
  
 
19,344
  
  
 
457
  
  
 
19,951
  
  
 
1,173
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Small Business
  
 
1,195
  
  
 
1,218
  
  
 
148
  
  
 
1,292
  
  
 
73
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
12,984
  
  
 
13,651
  
  
 
1,245
  
  
 
13,059
  
  
 
512
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
304
  
  
 
349
  
  
 
31
  
  
 
316
  
  
 
19
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
2,107
  
  
 
2,125
  
  
 
239
  
  
 
1,928
  
  
 
73
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
36,861
  
  
 
38,967
  
  
 
2,682
  
  
 
38,790
  
  
 
1,949
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
61,701
  
  
$
65,432
  
  
$
2,682
  
  
$
65,317
  
  
$
3,761
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 2010
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 
  
AverageRecordedInvestment
 
  
InterestIncomeRecognized
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 With no Related Allowance Recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
$
2,451
  
  
$
2,917
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
2,539
  
  
$
171
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
19,538
  
  
 
20,280
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
20,223
  
  
 
1,394
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
230
  
  
 
230
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
248
  
  
 
13
  

 Small Business
  
 
1,541
  
  
 
1,656
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,689
  
  
 
122
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
205
  
  
 
205
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
205
  
  
 
10
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
10
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
23,975
  
  
 
25,298
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
24,911
  
  
 
1,710
  

 With an Allowance Recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
$
1,372
  
  
$
1,373
  
  
$
511
  
  
$
1,384
  
  
$
94
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
7,127
  
  
 
7,379
  
  
 
411
  
  
 
7,346
  
  
 
438
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
1,769
  
  
 
1,769
  
  
 
151
  
  
 
1,762
  
  
 
76
  

 Small Business
  
 
953
  
  
 
954
  
  
 
221
  
  
 
956
  
  
 
63
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
9,758
  
  
 
10,146
  
  
 
991
  
  
 
9,836
  
  
 
396
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
428
  
  
 
435
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
432
  
  
 
21
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
2,004
  
  
 
2,035
  
  
 
245
  
  
 
1,364
  
  
 
58
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
23,411
  
  
 
24,091
  
  
 
2,547
  
  
 
23,080
  
  
 
1,146
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
47,386
  
  
$
49,389
  
  
$
2,547
  
  
$
47,991
  
  
$
2,856
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  101



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 































 2009
  
RecordedInvestment
 
  
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
  
RelatedAllowance
 
  
AverageRecordedInvestment
 
  
InterestIncomeRecognized
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 With no Related Allowance Recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
$
2,927
  
  
$
3,086
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
3,382
  
  
$
216
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
13,058
  
  
 
13,228
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
13,126
  
  
 
936
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
9,261
  
  
 
10,626
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
9,899
  
  
 
611
  

 Small Business
  
 
629
  
  
 
716
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
712
  
  
 
30
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
3,376
  
  
 
3,376
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,298
  
  
 
172
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
122
  
  
 
122
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
124
  
  
 
5
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
29,373
  
  
 
31,154
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
30,541
  
  
 
1,970
  

 With an Allowance Recorded:
  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial & Industrial
  
$
1,676
  
  
$
1,676
  
  
$
403
  
  
$
1,119
  
  
$
134
  

 Commercial Real Estate
  
 
4,447
  
  
 
4,458
  
  
 
257
  
  
 
4,550
  
  
 
175
  

 Commercial Construction
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  

 Small Business
  
 
853
  
  
 
914
  
  
 
346
  
  
 
749
  
  
 
36
  

 Residential Real Estate
  
 
5,009
  
  
 
5,009
  
  
 
584
  
  
 
4,131
  
  
 
246
  

 Consumer — Home Equity
  
 
48
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
48
  
  
 
3
  

 Consumer — Other
  
 
1,323
  
  
 
1,338
  
  
 
175
  
  
 
1,049
  
  
 
50
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
13,356
  
  
 
13,443
  
  
 
1,772
  
  
 
11,646
  
  
 
644
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
42,729
  
  
$
44,597
  
  
$
1,772
  
  
$
42,187
  
  
$
2,614
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Loans to Insiders  The Bank has granted loans to principal officers, directors (and their affiliates) and principal security holders. All such loans were made in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same
terms, including interest rate and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons, and do not involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfavorable features. Annual activity
consists of the following:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Net Principal Balance of Loans Outstanding as of January 1,
  
$
29,986
  
 
$
31,503
  

 Loan Advances
  
 
68,512
  
 
 
50,197
  

 Loan Payments/Payoffs
  
 
(57,314
) 
 
 
(51,714
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Principal Balance of Loans Outstanding as of December 31,
  
$
41,184
  
 
$
29,986
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  102



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(5)    BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
Bank premises and equipment at December 31, were as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
EstimatedUseful Life
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 
 
(In Years)
 

 Cost:
  



 



 




 Land
  
$
11,523
  
 
$
11,873
  
 
 
N/A
  

 Bank Premises
  
 
21,438
  
 
 
21,698
  
 
 
5-39
  

 Leasehold Improvements
  
 
18,744
  
 
 
16,650
  
 
 
1-15
  

 Furniture and Equipment
  
 
38,857
  
 
 
44,914
  
 
 
2-10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total Cost
  
 
90,562
  
 
 
95,135
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Accumulated Depreciation
  
 
(42,310
) 
 
 
(49,423
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Net Bank Premises and Equipment
  
$
48,252
  
 
$
45,712
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 Depreciation expense related to bank premises and equipment was $4.9 million in 2011, $5.2 million in
2010, and $4.6 million in 2009, which is included in occupancy and equipment expense and other noninterest expense. 
(6)    GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
The following table sets forth the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated
amortization, at December 31:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Balances not subject to amortization:
  



  




 Goodwill(1)
  
$
130,074
  
  
$
129,617
  

 Balances subject to amortization:
  



  




 Core Deposit Intangibles
  
 
9,660
  
  
 
11,275
  

 Other identifiable Intangible Assets
  
 
988
  
  
 
1,064
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Other Intangible Assets
  
 
10,648
  
  
 
12,339
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
  
$
140,722
  
  
$
141,956
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Approximately $39.5 million is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.  The changes in the carrying value of goodwill for the periods indicated were as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Balance at Beginning of Year
  
$
129,617
  
  
$
129,348
  
  
$
116,437
  

 Ben Franklin Acquisition
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
12,193
  

 Earn out Payments from Prior Acquisitions
  
 
457
  
  
 
269
  
  
 
718
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at End of Year
  
$
130,074
  
  
$
129,617
  
  
$
129,348
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  103



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of other intangible assets were
as follows at the periods indicated:   




























 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
NetCarryingAmount
 
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
NetCarryingAmount
 

 Core Deposits
  
$
17,638
  
  
$
(7,978
) 
 
$
9,660
  
  
$
17,638
  
  
$
(6,363
) 
 
$
11,275
  

 Other Intangible Assets(1)
  
 
1,330
  
  
 
(342
) 
 
 
988
  
  
 
1,980
  
  
 
(916
) 
 
 
1,064
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
18,968
  
  
$
(8,320
) 
 
$
10,648
  
  
$
19,618
  
  
$
(7,279
) 
 
$
12,339
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
In 2010 intangible assets of $650,000 were fully amortized and removed from the total other intangible assets in 2011. 
Amortization of intangible assets for 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $1.7 million, $2.0 million, and $2.5 million, respectively. 
The following table sets forth the estimated annual amortization expense of intangible assets for each of the next five years:
  








 Year
  
Amount
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
1,605
  

 2013
  
$
1,607
  

 2014
  
$
1,596
  

 2015
  
$
1,586
  

 2016
  
$
1,582
  
 The weighted average amortization period for intangible assets is 10.3 years. 
(7)    DEPOSITS 
The following is a summary of the scheduled maturities of time deposits as of December 31: 
 




















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 1 year or less
  
$
476,318
  
  
 
75.59
% 
 
$
587,780
  
  
 
84.79
% 

 Over 1 year to 2 years
  
 
69,523
  
  
 
11.03
% 
 
 
62,389
  
  
 
9.00
% 

 Over 2 years to 3 years
  
 
33,475
  
  
 
5.31
% 
 
 
32,545
  
  
 
4.70
% 

 Over 3 years to 4 years
  
 
11,160
  
  
 
1.77
% 
 
 
10,046
  
  
 
1.45
% 

 Over 4 years to 5 years
  
 
39,634
  
  
 
6.29
% 
 
 
416
  
  
 
0.06
% 

 Over 5 years
  
 
52
  
  
 
0.01
% 
 
 
—
  
  
 
0.00
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
630,162
  
  
 
100.00
% 
 
$
693,176
  
  
 
100.00
% 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The amount of overdraft deposits that were reclassified to the loan category at December 31, 2011
and 2010 was $1.2 million. 
  104



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(8)    BORROWINGS 
The Company’s borrowings consist of both short-term and long-term borrowings and provide the Bank with one of its
primary sources of funding. The borrowings also serve the Bank by providing a contingent source of liquidity. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had $2.6 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively, of assets pledged as collateral against
borrowings. These assets are primarily pledged to the FHLB of Boston and the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.  The
Company’s short-term borrowings consisted of the following as of the periods indicated:   












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 FHLB Borrowings
  
$
190,091
  
  
$
195,003
  

 Customer Repurchase Agreements
  
 
166,128
  
  
 
118,119
  

 Treasury Tax & Loan
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,044
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Short-Term Borrowings
  
$
356,219
  
  
$
316,166
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The interest expense on short-term borrowings was $2.3 million and $5.0 million as of December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively.  The table below sets forth additional information on short-term borrowings as of and for the
periods indicated:   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
WeightedAverageInterestRate
 
 
Amount
 
  
WeightedAverageInterestRate
 
 
Amount
 
  
WeightedAverageInterestRate
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Balance outstanding at end of year
  
$
356,219
  
  
 
0.58
% 
 
$
316,163
  
  
 
0.84
% 
 
$
352,604
  
  
 
1.17
% 

 Average daily balance outstanding
  
 
357,168
  
  
 
0.66
% 
 
 
341,447
  
  
 
1.54
% 
 
 
329,712
  
  
 
0.83
% 

 Maximum balance outstanding at any month end
  
 
392,323
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
361,060
  
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
352,604
  
  
 
N/A
  
 The Company’s long-term borrowings consisted of the following as of the periods indicated:
  












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Federal Home Loan Bank Borrowings
  
$
39,610
  
  
$
107,411
  

 Federal Funds Purchased and Assets Sold
  



  




 Under Repurchase Agreements(1)
  
 
50,000
  
  
 
50,000
  

 Junior Subordinated Debentures
  



  




 Capital Trust V(2)
  
 
51,547
  
  
 
51,547
  

 Slades Ferry Trust I(3)
  
 
10,310
  
  
 
10,310
  

 Subordinated Debentures(4)
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
30,000
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total Long-Term Borrowings
  
$
181,467
  
  
$
249,268
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
At December 31, 2011 there were no federal funds purchased and the assets sold under repurchase agreements were at a fixed rate of 2.29%. 
  105



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


(2)
The Capital Trust V Trust Preferred Securities were issued in connection with the issuance of variable rate (LIBOR plus 1.48%) capital securities due in 2037, which is
callable in March 2012. The interest rate has been locked at a fixed rate of 6.52%, until December 28, 2016, through the use of an interest rate swap. The Company unconditionally guarantees all obligations under these trust preferred
securities.   


(3)
The Slades Ferry Trust I Preferred Securities were issued in connection with the issuance of variable rate (LIBOR plus 2.79%) capital securities due in 2034, which is
callable quarterly until maturity. The Company unconditionally guarantees all obligations under these trust preferred securities.   


(4)
The subordinated debentures were issued to USB Capital Resources, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association. The subordinated debt matures on
August 27, 2018, however with regulatory approval, the Bank may redeem the subordinated debt without penalty at any time on or after August 27, 2013. The interest rate is fixed at 7.02% until August 27, 2013, at which point if not
redeemed, the subordinated debentures will have a floating interest rate determined at the option of the Bank, at either the then current LIBOR plus 3.00%; or the U.S. Bank base rate plus 1.25%. 
The interest expense on long-term borrowings was $13.0 million and $13.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 The following table sets forth information relating to the Company’s FHLB borrowings as of the periods indicated:
  




























 
  
As of and For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
WeightedAverageInterest Rate
 
 
AmountOutstanding
 
  
AmountCallable
 
  
WeightedAverageInterest Rate
 
 
AmountOutstanding
 
  
AmountCallable
 

 
  
 
 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Due in one year or less
  
 
0.84
% 
 
$
190,091
  
  
$
30,000
  
  
 
1.14
% 
 
$
195,003
  
  
$
20,000
  

 Due in greater than one year to five years
  
 
4.82
% 
 
 
8,507
  
  
 
8,000
  
  
 
3.43
% 
 
 
76,976
  
  
 
66,000
  

 Due in greater than five years
  
 
3.94
% 
 
 
31,103
  
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
3.99
% 
 
 
30,435
  
  
 
30,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1.41
% 
 
$
229,701
  
  
$
68,000
  
  
 
2.01
% 
 
$
302,414
  
  
$
116,000
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk of these borrowing, and
has effectively hedged $190.0 million of the FHLB advances to fixed interest rates. These swaps carry a weighted average interest rate of 2.50% and have various maturity dates ranging from December 2013 through March 2019. 
Additionally, the Company’s FHLB borrowings are collateralized by a blanket pledge agreement on the Bank’s FHLB stock, certain
qualified investment securities, deposits at the Federal Home Loan Bank, residential mortgages held in the Bank’s portfolio, and certain commercial real estate loans. The Bank’s unused remaining available borrowing capacity at the Federal
Home Loan Bank was approximately $526.6 million and $370.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, inclusive of a $5.0 million line of credit with the FHLB. Also, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Bank had an available
borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston of $618.8 million and $630.8 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Bank had no outstanding borrowings with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
The Bank has entered into repurchase agreements with both major brokerage firms (wholesale) and certain customers (retail). Both
wholesale and retail repurchase agreements are collateralized by securities issued or guaranteed by government sponsored enterprises, however they are subject to different safekeeping provisions. All related securities, regardless of safekeeping
arrangements, are included in the Company’s security portfolio. 
  106



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table sets forth information relating to the Company’s repurchase
agreements as of the periods indicated:   




















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
InvestmentsPledged
 
  
Amount
 
  
InvestmentsPledged
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Repurchase Agreements with Brokers
  
$
50,000
  
  
$
51,574
  
  
$
50,000
  
  
$
58,953
  

 Customer Repurchase Agreements
  
 
166,128
  
  
 
166,323
  
  
 
118,119
  
  
 
141,376
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
216,128
  
  
$
217,897
  
  
$
168,119
  
  
$
200,329
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following table sets forth the maturities of the borrowings over the next 5 years: 
 








 Years
  
Amounts Maturing
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
356,219
  

 2013
  
$
27
  

 2014
  
$
5,206
  

 2015
  
$
53,247
  

 2016
  
$
27
  

(9)    EARNINGS PER SHARE 
Earnings per share consisted of the following components for the years ended December 31: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Net Income
  
$
45,436
  
  
$
40,240
  
  
$
22,989
  

 Less: Preferred Stock Dividends
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
5,698
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net Income Available to Common Shareholders
  
$
45,436
  
  
$
40,240
  
  
$
17,291
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 




 
  
Weighted Average Shares
 

 
  
(Shares in Thousands)
 

 Basic Shares(1)
  
 
21,423
  
  
 
21,178
  
  
 
19,643
  

 Effect of dilutive securities
  
 
29
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
30
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted Shares
  
 
21,452
  
  
 
21,204
  
  
 
19,673
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net Income Available to Common Shareholders per Share
  



  



  




 Basic EPS
  
$
2.12
  
  
$
1.90
  
  
$
0.88
  

 Effect of dilutive securities
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted EPS
  
$
2.12
  
  
$
1.90
  
  
$
0.88
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Unvested participating restricted stock awards were not considered outstanding in the computation of basic earnings per share due to the immaterial balance for the year
ended December 31, 2009. 
  107



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table illustrates the options to purchase common stock that were excluded
from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because they were anti-dilutive:   
















 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Stock Options
  
 
824,225
  
  
 
790,140
  
  
 
1,024,831
  

(10)    STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Company has the following stock-based plans, all of which have been approved by the Company’s Board of
Directors and shareholders:   


 
•
 
 1996 Nonemployee Directors’ Stock Option Plan (“1996 Plan”) 
 


 
•
 
 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan (“1997 Plan”) 
 


 
•
 
 2005 Amended and Restated Employee Stock Plan (“2005 Plan”) 
 


 
•
 
 2006 Nonemployee Director Stock Plan (“2006 Plan”) 
 


 
•
 
 2010 Nonemployee Director Stock Plan (“2010 Plan”) 
In addition, in connection with the Ben Franklin acquisition in 2009, the Company agreed to convert, for a two-year period, the options
granted to certain Ben Franklin employees prior to the acquisition to acquire Ben Franklin stock into options to acquire the Company’s stock (“BFBC Plan”).  The following table presents the amount of cumulatively granted stock options and restricted stock awards, net of forfeitures, through December 31, 2011: 
 
































 
 
AuthorizedStock
Option Awards
 
 
AuthorizedRestricted
Stock Awards
 
 
Total
 
 
Cumulative Granted, Net ofForfeitures
 
 
Total
 
 
AuthorizedbutUnissued

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
StockOption 
Awards
 
 
RestrictedStock 
Awards
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 1996 Plan
 
 
300,000
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
300,000
  
 
 
199,000
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
199,000
  
 
 
(4
) 

 1997 Plan
 
 
1,100,000
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
1,100,000
  
 
 
1,013,671
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
1,013,671
  
 
 
(4
) 

 2005 Plan
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
1,650,000
  
 
 
513,800
  
 
 
285,222
  
 
 
799,022
  
 
 
850,978
  

 2006 Plan
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
35,400
  
 
 
15,000
  
 
 
20,400
  
 
 
35,400
  
 
 
(4
) 

 2010 Plan
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
314,600
  
 
 
22,000
  
 
 
26,600
  
 
 
48,600
  
 
 
266,000
  

 BFBC Plan
 
 
210,286
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
210,286
  
 
 
164,003
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
164,003
  
 
 
(4
) 
  


(1)
The Company may award up to a total of 1,650,000 shares as stock options or restricted stock awards. 
 


(2)
The Company may award up to a total of 50,000 shares as stock options or restricted stock awards. During 2010, the remaining 14,600 shares were transferred and
available for issue under the 2010 Plan.   


(3)
The Company may award up to a total of 314,600 shares as stock options or restricted stock awards, inclusive of 14,600 shares which were transferred from the 2006 Plan.
  


(4)
There are no shares available for grant under the 1996 Plan, 1997 Plan or BFBC Plan due to their expirations. The 1996 Plan and 1997 Plan have outstanding stock options
exercisable despite the Plan expiration. The 2006 Plan has outstanding stock options exercisable despite the transfer of remaining authorized shares to the 2010 Plan. 
  108



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Company issues shares for stock option exercises and restricted stock awards from
its pool of authorized but unissued shares. Under all of the Company’s stock-based plans the option exercise price is derived from trading value on the date of grant. Stock option awards granted to date under all plans expire through 2021.
 The following table presents the pre-tax expense associated with stock option and restricted stock awards and the related tax
benefits recognized for the years presented:   
















 
  
For the Years EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Stock-based compensation expense
  



  



  




 Stock options
  
$
662
  
  
$
436
  
  
$
395
  

 Restricted stock awards(1)
  
 
1,502
  
  
 
1,018
  
  
 
298
  

 Directors’ fee expense
  



  



  




 Stock options
  
 
65
  
  
 
63
  
  
 
10
  

 Restricted stock awards
  
 
254
  
  
 
149
  
  
 
71
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL STOCK-BASED AWARD EXPENSE
  
$
2,483
  
  
$
1,666
  
  
$
774
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Related tax benefits recognized in earnings
  
$
1,014
  
  
$
681
  
  
$
316
  
  


(1)
Inclusive of compensation expense associated with time-vested and performance-based restricted stock awards. 
Amounts recognized related to awards issued to directors are recognized as directors’ fees within other noninterest expense.
 The Company has standard form agreements used for stock option and restricted stock awards. The standard form agreements used
for the Chief Executive Officer and all other Executive Officers have previously been disclosed in Securities Exchange Commission filings and generally provide that: (1) any unvested options or unvested restricted stock vest upon a Change of
Control; and, that (2) any stock options which vest pursuant to a Change of Control which is an event described in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 will be cashed out at the difference between the acquisition price and the
exercise price of the stock option.  Stock Options  The following table provides vesting period and contractual term information for stock option awards:   
















 Date of Grant
  
Plan
 
  
Vesting Period FromDate of Grant
 
  
ContractualTerm
 

 Prior to 12/15/2005
  
 
1997 and 1996
  
  
 
6 to 24 months
  
  
 
10 years
  

 On 12/15/2005
  
 
1997 and 2005
  
  
 
Immediate
  
  
 
7 years
  

 During 2006:
  
 
2005
  
  
 
28 months
  
  
 
7 years
  


  
 
2006
  
  
 
21 months
  
  
 
7 years
  

 During 2007:
  
 
2005
  
  
 
5 years
  
  
 
10 years
  

 During 2008:
  
 
2005
  
  
 
5 years
  
  
 
10 years
  

 During 2009:
  
 
2005
  
  
 
5 years
  
  
 
10 years
  


  
 
2006
  
  
 
22 months
  
  
 
7 years
  


  
 
BFBC
  
  
 
Immediate
  
  
 
2 years
  

 During 2010:
  
 
2010
  
  
 
20 months
  
  
 
10 years
  

 During 2011:
  
 
2005
  
  
 
3 years
  
  
 
10 years
  


  
 
2010
  
  
 
20 months
  
  
 
10 years
  

  109



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of the grant using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions used for grants under the identified plans:   


 
•
 
 Expected volatility is based on the standard deviation of the historical volatility of the weekly adjusted closing price of the Company’s shares
for a period equivalent to the expected life of the option.   


 
•
 
 Expected life represents the period of time that the option is expected to be outstanding, taking into account the contractual term, historical
exercise/forfeiture behavior, and the vesting period, if any. For all options granted on December 15, 2005 and later, the Company takes into effect historical experience when determining the expected life of the option.
  


 
•
 
 Expected dividend yield is an annualized rate calculated using the most recent dividend payment at time of grant and the Company’s average
trailing twelve-month daily closing stock price.   


 
•
 
 The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for a period equivalent to the expected life of the option.
  


 
•
 
 The stock-based compensation expense recognized in earnings should be based on the amount of awards ultimately expected to vest, therefore a forfeiture
assumption is estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Stock-based compensation expense recognized in 2011, 2010, and 2009 has been reduced for annualized
estimated forfeitures of 5%, based on historical experience.  During the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010, and 2009 the Company has made the following awards of nonqualified options to purchase shares of common stock:   
































 
 
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Date of Grant
 
2/10/2011
 
 
2/17/2011
 
 
5/24/2011
 
 
5/25/2010
 
 
3/2/2009
 
 
4/10/2009
 
 
4/20/2009
 

 Plan
 
 
2005
  
 
 
2005
  
 
 
2010
  
 
 
2010
  
 
 
2006
  
 
 
BFBC
(2) 
 
 
2005
  

 Shares granted
 
 
40,000
  
 
 
54,000
  
 
 
7,000
  
 
 
15,000
  
 
 
5,000
  
 
 
202,716
  
 
 
5,000
  

 Vesting period(1)
 
 
3 years
  
 
 
3 years
  
 
 
20 months
  
 
 
3 years
  
 
 
5 years
  
 
 
Immediate
  
 
 
5 years
  

 Expiration date
 
 
2/10/2021
  
 
 
2/17/2021
  
 
 
5/24/2021
  
 
 
5/25/2020
  
 
 
3/2/2019
  
 
 
4/10/2011
  
 
 
4/20/2019
  

 Expected volatility
 
 
32
% 
 
 
32
% 
 
 
33
% 
 
 
39
% 
 
 
33
% 
 
 
34
% 
 
 
38
% 

 Expected life (Years)
 
 
5.5
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
5
  

 Expected dividend yield
 
 
2.90
% 
 
 
2.89
% 
 
 
2.87
% 
 
 
3.18
% 
 
 
2.78
% 
 
 
2.96
% 
 
 
2.99
% 

 Risk free interest rate
 
 
2.57
% 
 
 
2.27
% 
 
 
1.81
% 
 
 
2.01
% 
 
 
1.82
% 
 
 
0.95
% 
 
 
1.80
% 

 Fair value
 
$
6.81
  
 
$
6.39
  
 
$
6.72
  
 
$
6.31
  
 
$
3.32
  
 
$
1.51 - $2.06
  
 
$
5.25
  
    








(1)
 

  
Vesting periods begin on the grant date unless otherwise noted.





(2)
 

  
The BFBC Plan grants were associated with a 2 year extension of previously issued grants by Ben Franklin which were accelerated and converted to options to purchase Independent Bank
Corp. stock.

  110



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table presents relevant information relating to the Company’s stock
options for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
For the Years EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Fair value of stock options vested based on grant date fair value
  
$
506
  
  
$
460
  
  
$
2,785
  

 Intrinsic value of stock options exercised/forfeited
  
 
943
  
  
 
406
  
  
 
213
  

 Cash received from stock option exercises
  
 
4,127
  
  
 
743
  
  
 
307
  

 Tax benefit realized on stock option exercises
  
 
735
  
  
 
91
  
  
 
48
  

 Weighted average grant date fair value of options granted (per share)
  
 
6.58
  
  
 
6.31
  
  
 
4.28
  
 No cash was paid by the Company to settle equity instruments granted under stock-based compensation
arrangements during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.  A summary of the status of the Company’s
Stock Option Grants for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented in the table below:   
































 
 
Outstanding
 
 
Nonvested
 
 
 
 

 
 
Stock OptionAwards
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice ($)
 
 
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm (years)
 
 
AggregateIntrinsicValue(1) 
 
 
StockOptionAwards
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant DateFair Value
 
 
 
 

 
 
(Dollars in Thousands, Except per Share Data)
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
 
 
1,119,760
  
 
$
27.85
  
 



 



 
 
172,285
  
 
$
6.57
  
 




 Granted
 
 
101,000
  
 
 
27.58
  
 



 



 
 
101,000
  
 
 
6.58
  
 




 Exercised
 
 
(195,256
) 
 
 
22.24
  
 



 



 
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  
 




 Vested/Released
 
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  
 



 



 
 
(69,965
) 
 
 
7.23
  
 




 Forfeited
 
 
(100
) 
 
 
33.00
  
 



 



 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 




 Expired
 
 
(49,338
) 
 
 
23.26
  
 



 



 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
976,066
(2) 
 
$
29.18
  
 
 
3.89
  
 
$
656
  
 
 
203,320
(5) 
 
$
6.64
  
 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Options outstanding and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
968,037
(3) 
 
$
29.19
  
 
 
3.86
  
 
$
654
  
 



 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 




 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
772,846
(4) 
 
$
29.45
  
 
 
2.93
  
 
$
594
  
 



 



 





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 



 




 Unrecognized compensation cost, including forfeiture estimate
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
$
775
  

 Weighted average remaining recognition period (years)
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
1.6
  
    








 (1)    
 

  
The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding tables represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the average of the high price and low price at which the
Company’s common stock traded on December 30, 2011 of $27.65 which would have been received by the option holders had they all exercised their options as of that date.





 (2)    
 

  
 Inclusiveof 68,000 stock options outstanding to Directors.





 (3)    
 

  
 Inclusiveof 67,864 stock options outstanding and expected to vest to Directors.





 (4)    
 

  
 Inclusiveof 58,340 vested stock options outstanding to Directors





 (5)    
 

  
 Inclusiveof 9,660 nonvested stock options outstanding to Directors

  111



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Restricted Stock  The Company grants both time-vested restricted stock awards as well as performance-based restricted stock awards. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 the Company has made the
following restricted stock award grants:   


















 Date
  
Shares Granted
 
  
Plan
 
  
Fair Value(1)
 
  
 Vesting Period

 Time-vested
  



  



  



  


 2011
  



  



  



  


    2/10/2011
  
 
27,750
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
27.58
  
  
Ratably over 5 years from grant date

    2/17/2011
  
 
33,000
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
27.43
  
  
Ratably over 5 years from grant date

    5/3/2011
  
 
3,000
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
29.00
  
  
Ratably over 5 years from grant date

    5/24/2011
  
 
9,800
  
  
 
2010
  
  
$
28.88
  
  
At the end of 5 years from grant date(2)

 2010
  



  



  



  


    2/11/2010
  
 
37,000
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
23.39
  
  
Ratably over 3 years from grant date

    2/25/2010
  
 
54,500
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
25.12
  
  
Ratably over 3 years from grant date

    5/25/2010
  
 
16,800
  
  
 
2010
  
  
$
23.07
  
  
At the end of 3 years from grant date(2)

 2009
  



  



  



  


    5/21/2009
  
 
93,000
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
19.48
  
  
Ratably over 3 years from grant date

    5/27/2009
  
 
5,600
  
  
 
2006
  
  
$
20.08
  
  
At the end of 5 years from grant date(2)

 Performance-based
  



  



  



  


 2011
  



  



  



  


     8/8/2011
  
 
3,637
  
  
 
2005
  
  
$
23.81
  
  
On December 31, 2014
  








(1)
 

  
The fair value of the restricted stock awards are based upon the average of the high and low price at which the Company’s common stock traded on the date of grant. The holders
of time-vested restricted stock awards participate fully in the rewards of stock ownership of the Company, including voting and dividend rights. The holders of performance-based restricted stock awards do not participate in the rewards of stock
ownership of the Company until vested. The holders of all restricted stock awards are not required to pay any consideration to the Company for the awards.





(2)
 

  
These restricted stock grants will vest at the end of a three or five year period, or earlier if the director ceases to be a director for any reason other than cause, such as, for
example, by retirement. If a non-employee director is removed from the Board for cause, the Company has ninety (90) days within which to exercise a right to repurchase any unvested portion of any restricted stock award from the non-employee
director for the aggregate price of one dollar ($1.00).
 The following table presents the fair value of restricted stock awards vesting during the periods
presented:   
















 
  
For the Years EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Fair value of restricted stock awards upon vest
  
$
1,599
  
  
$
623
  
  
$
37
  

  112



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
A summary of the status of the Company’s Restricted Stock Award Grants for the year
ended December 31, 2011 is presented in the table below:   
















 
  
Outstanding
 
  
 
 

 
  
Restricted StockAwards
 
 
Weighted AverageGrant Price ($)
 
  
 
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 
  
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2011
  
 
219,900
  
 
$
22.05
  
  




 Granted
  
 
77,187
  
 
 
27.55
  
  




 Vested/Released
  
 
(57,910
) 
 
 
22.56
  
  




 Forfeited
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  




 Expired
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
239,177
(1) 
 
$
23.70
  
  





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




 Unrecognized compensation cost (inclusive of directors’ fees), including forfeiture estimate
  



 



  
$
3,801
  

 Weighted average remaining recognition period (years)
  



 



  
 
2.7
  
  


(1)
Inclusive of 40,600 restricted stock awards outstanding to Directors. 
(11)    CAPITAL PURCHASE PROGRAM 
On January 9, 2009, as part of the Capital Purchase Program (“CPP”) established by the U.S. Department
of Treasury (“Treasury”) under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Company entered into a Letter Agreement with the Treasury pursuant to which the Company issued and sold to the Treasury 78,158 shares of the
Company’s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, par value $0.01 per share, having a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 481,664 shares of the Company’s common stock, par
value $0.01 per share, at an initial exercise price of $24.34 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $78,158,000 in cash. All of the proceeds from the sale of the Series C Preferred Stock were treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory
purposes.  The preferred stock and stock warrants were recorded using the relative fair value method and were valued at $73.6
million and $4.6 million, respectively. The carrying value of the preferred stock, as determined by the relative fair value method was lower than the face value of the preferred stock issued. Accordingly, the Company recorded a discount using a
discount rate of 14.0%, which was accreted using the effective yield method. The accretion of the discount is presented as imputed preferred dividends and reduces the net income available to the common shareholders. 
On April 22, 2009 the Company retired all 78,158 shares of its Preferred Stock, related to the CPP. Additionally, the Company paid
to the Treasury accrued dividends of approximately $727,000. In connection with the retirement of the preferred stock, the Company recorded imputed dividends of $4.4 million. The preferred stock dividend reduces net income available to common
shareholders, which is used in calculating earnings per share. The Company also repurchased common stock warrants issued to the Treasury for $2.2 million, the cost of which has been reflected as a reduction in additional paid in capital. 
(12)    DERIVATIVES AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
The Company’s derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the
Company’s known or expected cash receipts and its known or expected cash payments principally to manage the Company’s interest rate risk. Additionally, the Company enters into interest rate derivatives and foreign exchange contracts to
accommodate the business requirements of its customers (“customer related positions”). The Company minimizes the market and liquidity risks of customer-related positions by entering into

  113



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

similar offsetting positions with broker-dealers. Derivative instruments are carried at fair value in the Company’s financial statements. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a
derivative instrument is dependent upon whether or not it qualifies as a hedge for accounting purposes, and further, by the type of hedging relationship.  The Company does not enter into proprietary trading positions for any derivatives. 
Asset Liability Management  The Company currently utilizes interest rate swap agreements as hedging instruments against interest rate risk associated with the Company’s borrowings. An interest rate swap is an agreement whereby
one party agrees to pay a floating rate of interest on a notional principal amount in exchange for receiving a fixed rate of interest on the same notional amount, for a predetermined period of time, from a second party. The amounts relating to the
notional principal amount are not actually exchanged. The maximum length of time over which the Company is currently hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions related to the payment of variable interest
on existing financial instruments is eight years.  The following table reflects the Company’s derivative positions for
the periods indicated below for interest rate swaps which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes:   
































As of December 31, 2011
 

 NotionalAmount
 
  
TradeDate
 
  
EffectiveDate
 
  
MaturityDate
 
  
 Receive
(Variable)
Index
  
CurrentRateReceived
 
 
Pay FixedSwap Rate
 
 
Fair Value atDecember 31,2011
 

(Dollars in Thousands)
 

$
25,000
  
  
 
16-Feb-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-16
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.55
% 
 
 
5.04
% 
 
$
(4,745
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
16-Feb-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-16
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.55
% 
 
 
5.04
% 
 
 
(4,745
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
8-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-13
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.54
% 
 
 
2.65
% 
 
 
(941
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
9-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-13
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.54
% 
 
 
2.59
% 
 
 
(913
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
9-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-18
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.54
% 
 
 
2.94
% 
 
 
(2,349
) 

 
50,000
  
  
 
17-Nov-09
  
  
 
20-Dec-10
  
  
 
20-Dec-14
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.56
% 
 
 
3.04
% 
 
 
(3,316
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
5-May-11
  
  
 
10-Jun-11
  
  
 
10-Jun-15
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.54
% 
 
 
1.71
% 
 
 
(704
) 

 
40,000
  
  
 
18-Aug-11
  
  
 
2-Apr-12
  
  
 
10-Mar-19
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
TBD
  
 
 
1.89
% 
 
 
(550
)(1) 

  
  
 
  



  



  



  

  



 



 
  
  
 

$
240,000
  
  



  



  



  

  



 



 
$
(18,263
) 

  
  
 
  



  



  



  

  



 



 
  
  
 



As of December 31, 2010
 

 NotionalAmount
 
  
TradeDate
 
  
EffectiveDate
 
  
MaturityDate
 
  
 Receive
(Variable)
Index
  
CurrentRateReceived
 
 
Pay FixedSwap Rate
 
 
Fair Value atDecember 31,2010
 

(Dollars in Thousands)
 

$
25,000
  
  
 
16-Feb-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-16
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.30
% 
 
 
5.04
% 
 
$
(3,713
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
16-Feb-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-06
  
  
 
28-Dec-16
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.30
% 
 
 
5.04
% 
 
 
(3,682
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
8-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-13
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.30
% 
 
 
2.65
% 
 
 
(1,044
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
9-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-13
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.30
% 
 
 
2.59
% 
 
 
(1,002
) 

 
25,000
  
  
 
9-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-08
  
  
 
10-Dec-18
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.30
% 
 
 
2.94
% 
 
 
(109
) 

 
50,000
  
  
 
17-Nov-09
  
  
 
20-Dec-10
  
  
 
20-Dec-14
  
  
3 Month LIBOR
  
 
0.30
% 
 
 
3.04
% 
 
 
(2,656
) 

  
  
 
  



  



  



  

  



 



 
  
  
 

$
175,000
  
  



  



  



  

  



 



 
$
(12,206
) 

  
  
 
  



  



  



  

  



 



 
  
  
 
  


(1)
In August 2011, the Company entered into a forward starting swap with a notional amount of $40.0 million, with the intention of hedging $40.0 million of a future FHLB
advance to be originated in April 2012. 
  114



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the
effective portion of the gains or losses is reported as a component of OCI, and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. The Company expects approximately $5.3 million
(pre-tax), to be reclassified to interest expense from OCI, related to the Company’s cash flow hedges in the next twelve months. This reclassification is due to anticipated payments that will be made and/or received on the swaps based upon
the forward curve as of December 31, 2011.  During the first quarter of 2010, one of the Company’s $25.0 million
interest rate swaps failed to qualify for hedge accounting. The Company ceased hedge accounting on January 6, 2010, which was the last date the interest rate swap qualified for hedge accounting. As a result, the Company recognized a loss of
$238,000 directly in earnings as part of noninterest expense and reclassified $107,000 from interest expense to noninterest expense within the first quarter of 2010. Additionally, a gain of $191,000 which was previously deferred in OCI was
immediately recognized in income during the first quarter, based on the Company’s anticipation of the hedged forecasted transaction no longer being probable to occur. The Company terminated the swap in June 2010 as a result of management’s
decision to pay down the underlying borrowing and recognized $792,000 in earnings through the date of termination.  The table
below presents the net amortization income recognized as an offset to interest expense related to previously terminated swaps for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
For the Years EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Net Amortization Income (Expense)
  
$
244
  
  
$
222
  
  
$
(496
) 
 Customer Related Positions 
Interest rate derivatives, primarily interest-rate swaps, offered to commercial borrowers through the Bank’s loan level derivative
program do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes. The Bank believes that its exposure to commercial customer derivatives is limited because these contracts are simultaneously matched at inception with an offsetting dealer transaction. The
commercial customer derivative program allows the Bank to retain variable-rate commercial loans while allowing the customer to synthetically fix the loan rate by entering into a variable-to-fixed interest rate swap. 
Foreign exchange contracts offered to commercial borrowers through the Bank’s derivative program do not qualify as hedges for
accounting purposes. The Bank acts as a seller and buyer of foreign exchange contracts to accommodate its customers. To mitigate the market and liquidity risk associated with these derivatives, the Bank enters into similar offsetting positions.

  115



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table reflects the Company’s customer related derivative positions
for the periods indicated below for those derivatives not designated as hedging:   




































 
 
Number ofPositions
 
 
Notional Amount Maturing
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
2011
 
 
2012
 
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
 
Thereafter
 
 
Total
 
 
Fair Value
 

 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 As of December 31, 2011
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Loan Level Swaps
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Receive fixed, pay variable
 
 
101
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
19,197
  
 
 
80,234
  
 
 
283,991
  
 
$
383,422
  
 
$
24,478
  

 Pay fixed, receive variable
 
 
101
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
19,197
  
 
 
80,234
  
 
 
283,991
  
 
$
383,422
  
 
$
(24,535
) 

 Foreign Exchange Contracts
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Buys foreign exchange, sells US currency
 
 
15
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
21,657
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
21,657
  
 
$
(1,081
) 

 Buys US currency, sells foreign exchange
 
 
15
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
21,657
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
21,657
  
 
$
1,098
  

 As of December 31, 2010
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Loan Level Swaps
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Receive fixed, pay variable
 
 
72
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21,624
  
 
 
83,051
  
 
 
202,275
  
 
$
306,950
  
 
$
7,673
  

 Pay fixed, receive variable
 
 
72
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
21,624
  
 
 
83,051
  
 
 
202,275
  
 
$
306,950
  
 
$
(7,835
) 

 Foreign Exchange Contracts
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Buys foreign exchange, sells US currency
 
 
18
  
 
$
41,706
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
41,706
  
 
$
1,301
  

 Buys US currency, sells foreign exchange
 
 
18
  
 
$
41,706
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
$
41,706
  
 
$
(1,286
) 
 The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as
their classification on the balance sheet at the periods indicated:   




























  
 
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments
 

 
 
Asset Derivatives
 
 
Liability Derivatives
 

 
 
Balance SheetLocation
 
 
Fair Value atDecember 31,2011
 
 
Fair Value atDecember 31,2010
 
 
Balance SheetLocation
 
 
Fair Value atDecember 31,2011
 
 
Fair Value atDecember 31,2010
 

 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 
 
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Derivatives designated as hedges:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest rate swaps
 
 
Other Assets
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
 
Other Liabilities
  
 
$
18,263
  
 
$
12,206
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedges:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Customer Related Positions:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Loan level swaps
 
 
Other Assets
  
 
$
24,478
  
 
$
9,813
  
 
 
Other Liabilities
  
 
$
24,535
  
 
$
9,975
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
 
 
Other Assets
  
 
 
1,098
  
 
 
1,655
  
 
 
Other Liabilities
  
 
 
1,081
  
 
 
1,640
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
 



 
$
25,576
  
 
$
11,468
  
 



 
$
25,616
  
 
$
11,615
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  116



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The table below presents the effect of the Company’s derivative financial
instruments included in OCI and current earnings for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
        2011        

 
 
        2010        

 
 
        2009        

 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Derivatives designated as hedges:
  



 



 




 Gain/(Loss) in OCI on Derivative (Effective Portion),
  



 



 




 Net of Tax
  
$
(7,021
) 
 
$
(7,894
) 
 
$
6,995
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gain/(Loss) Reclassified from OCI into Income (Effective Portion)
  



 



 




 Interest Expense
  
$
(5,472
) 
 
$
(3,829
) 
 
$
(1,714
) 

 Other Income
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
937
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
(5,472
) 
 
$
(3,829
) 
 
$
(777
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss Recognized in Income on Derivative (Ineffective Portion & Amount Excluded from Effectiveness
Testing)
  



 



 




 Interest Expense
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
(61
) 

 Other Expense
  
 
—
  
 
 
(154
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
 —
  
 
$
(154
) 
 
$
(61
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Derivatives not designated as hedges:
  



 



 




 Changes in Fair Value of Customer Related Positions
  



 



 




 Other Income
  
$
164
  
 
$
56
  
 
$
302
  

 Other Expense
  
 
(56
) 
 
 
(341
) 
 
 
(128
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
108
  
 
$
(285
) 
 
$
174
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Derivative contracts involve the risk of dealing with derivative counterparties and their ability to meet
contractual terms. Institutional counterparties must have an investment grade credit rating and be approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Company’s credit exposure on interest rate swaps is limited to the net positive fair value
and accrued interest of all swaps with each counterparty. The Company has agreements with certain of its derivative counterparties that contain a provision where if the Company fails to maintain its status as a well capitalized institution, then the
Company could be required to terminate any outstanding derivatives with the counterparty. The Company had no exposure relating to interest rate swaps with institutional counterparties at December 31, 2011 or 2010, as all such swaps were in a
liability position. The Company’s exposure relating to customer related positions was approximately $25.1 million and $8.1 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Credit exposure may be reduced by the amount of collateral
pledged by the counterparty.  The Company currently holds derivative instruments that contain credit-risk related contingent
features that are in a net liability position, which require the Company to assign collateral. The table below presents information relating to credit-risk contingent instruments as of the dates indicated: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Notional Amount
  
$
623.4
  
  
$
482.0
  

 Aggregate Fair Value
  
$
42.8
  
  
$
20.0
  

 Collateral Assigned
  
$
47.6
  
  
$
30.8
  

  117



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Collateral legally required to be maintained at dealer banks by the Company is monitored
and adjusted as necessary. Per a review completed by management of these instruments at December 31, 2011 it was determined that no additional collateral would have to be posted to immediately settle these instruments. 
The Company does not offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments. The Company does net the amount recognized for the
right to reclaim cash collateral against the obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instruments executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement. 
Mortgage Derivatives  Forward sale contracts of residential mortgage loans, considered derivative instruments for accounting purposes, are utilized by the Company in its efforts to manage risk of loss associated with its
mortgage loan commitments and mortgage loans intended for sale. Prior to closing and funding certain one-to-four family residential mortgage loans, an interest rate lock commitment is generally extended to the borrower. During the period from
commitment date to closing date, the Company is subject to the risk that market rates of interest may change. If market rates rise, investors generally will pay less to purchase such loans resulting in a reduction in the gain on sale of the loans
or, possibly, a loss. In an effort to mitigate such risk, forward delivery sales commitments are executed, under which the Company agrees to deliver whole mortgage loans to various investors. The interest rate lock commitments and forward sales
commitments are recorded at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded in current period earnings. Effective July 1, 2010, pursuant to FASB ASC Topic No. 825, “Financial Instruments,” the Company elected to carry newly
originated closed loans held for sale at fair value. As such, the change in fair value of loans held for sale is recorded in current period earnings.  The table below summarizes the fair value of residential mortgage loans commitments, forward sales agreements, and loans held for sale at the periods indicated: 
 












 
  
As of December 31,
 

 
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Interest Rate Lock Commitments
  
$
265
  
 
$
(459
) 

 Forward Sales Agreements
  
$
(528
) 
 
$
1,052
  

 Loans Held for Sale Fair Value Adjustment
  
$
263
  
 
$
(593
) 
 The table below summarizes the changes in the fair value of residential mortgage loans commitments,
forward sales agreements, and loans held for sale for the periods indicated:   
















 
  
For the Years EndedDecember 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Interest Rate Lock Commitments
  
$
724
  
 
$
64
  
 
$
(861
) 

 Forward Sales Agreements
  
 
(1,580
) 
 
 
285
  
 
 
738
  

 Loans Held for Sale Fair Value Adjustment
  
 
856
  
 
 
(593
) 
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL CHANGE IN FAIR VALUE
  
$
—
  
 
$
(244
) 
 
$
(123
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  118



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(13)    INCOME TAXES 
The provision for income taxes is comprised of the following components: 
 
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Current Expense
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
11,830
  
 
$
10,453
  
 
$
6,422
  

 State
  
 
5,227
  
 
 
4,268
  
 
 
2,606
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Current Expense
  
 
17,057
  
 
 
14,721
  
 
 
9,028
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred Expense (Benefit)
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
548
  
 
 
(2,223
) 
 
 
(1,430
) 

 State
  
 
(457
) 
 
 
(271
) 
 
 
(851
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Deferred Expense (Benefit)
  
 
91
  
 
 
(2,494
) 
 
 
(2,281
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL EXPENSE
  
$
17,148
  
 
$
12,227
  
 
$
6,747
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The difference between the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% and the effective federal income tax
rate is as follows:   
















 
  
For the Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Computed statutory federal income tax provision
  
$
21,904
  
 
$
18,364
  
 
$
10,408
  

 State taxes, net of federal tax benefit
  
 
3,101
  
 
 
2,598
  
 
 
1,141
  

 Nontaxable interest, net
  
 
(661
) 
 
 
(564
) 
 
 
(646
) 

 Tax credits
  
 
(6,238
) 
 
 
(6,932
) 
 
 
(4,550
) 

 Increase in cash surrender value of life insurance
  
 
(1,109
) 
 
 
(1,117
) 
 
 
(981
) 

 Merger and other related costs
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1,627
  

 Other, net
  
 
151
  
 
 
(122
) 
 
 
(252
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL EXPENSE
  
$
17,148
  
 
$
12,227
  
 
$
6,747
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The effective tax rate for years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 was 27.40%, 23.30%, and
22.69%, respectively. 
  119



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The tax-effected components of the net deferred tax asset at December 31 were as
follows:   












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Deferred Tax Assets
  



  




 Allowance for loan losses
  
$
19,845
  
  
$
19,040
  

 Other-than-temporary impairment on securities
  
 
4,403
  
  
 
4,304
  

 Accrued expenses not deducted for tax purposes
  
 
6,181
  
  
 
5,359
  

 Deferred gain on sale leaseback transaction
  
 
3,968
  
  
 
4,394
  

 Derivatives fair value adjustment
  
 
6,767
  
  
 
4,282
  

 Employee and director equity compensation
  
 
2,159
  
  
 
2,008
  

 Amounts not yet recognized as a component of net periodic post retirement cost
  
 
870
  
  
 
777
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank Borrowings fair value adjustment
  
 
318
  
  
 
534
  

 Limited partnerships
  
 
50
  
  
 
47
  

 New markets tax credit carry forward
  
 
—
  
  
 
327
  

 Other
  
 
1,246
  
  
 
1,421
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
45,807
  
  
$
42,493
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred Tax Liabilities
  



  




 Goodwill
  
$
11,499
  
  
$
10,238
  

 Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale
  
 
3,762
  
  
 
4,232
  

 Core deposit and other intangibles
  
 
3,499
  
  
 
4,143
  

 Fixed assets
  
 
6,269
  
  
 
5,037
  

 Loan basis difference fair value adjustment
  
 
1,326
  
  
 
1,826
  

 Deferred loan fees, net
  
 
2,369
  
  
 
2,383
  

 Mortgage servicing asset
  
 
429
  
  
 
633
  

 Mark to market adjustment
  
 
60
  
  
 
490
  

 Prepaid expenses
  
 
453
  
  
 
328
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
29,666
  
  
$
29,310
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL NET DEFERRED TAX ASSET
  
$
16,141
  
  
$
13,183
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company has determined that a valuation allowance is not required for any of its deferred tax assets
since it is more likely than not that these assets will be realized principally through the utilization of carry-back provisions to taxable income on prior years and future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences and by offsetting other
future taxable income. 
  120



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Uncertainty in Income Taxes 
The Company accounts for uncertainties in income taxes by providing a tax reserve for certain positions. The following is a reconciliation
of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits:   








 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
 175,000
  

 Reduction of tax positions for prior years
  
 
—
  

 Increase for current year tax positions
  
 
51,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
226,000
  


  
  
  
 

 Reduction of tax positions for prior years
  
 
(115,000
) 

 Increase for current year tax positions
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
111,000
  


  
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits are related to dividends
received deductions on mutual bond funds, deductions of interest expense, and treatment of acquisition related costs in 2009, all of which, if recognized, would be recorded as a component of income tax expense therefore affecting the effective tax
rate. The Company records interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in the provision for income taxes.  The
Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, and in the states of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, and Connecticut. The Company is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax examinations
by tax authorities for the 2008 through 2010 tax years including any related income tax filings from its recent Bank acquisitions. The Company is carrying forward a credit relating to the New Markets Tax Credit program in the amount of $417,000 as
of December 31, 2011. The credit will expire if unused within the next twenty years, however the Company anticipates utilizing the credit on the 2011 federal tax return. 
(14)    EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
PENSION  The Company maintains a multiemployer defined benefit pension plan (the “Pension Plan”) administered by Pentegra Retirement Services (the “Fund” or “Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan
for Financial Institutions”). The Fund does not segregate the assets or liabilities of all participating employers and, accordingly, disclosure of plan assets, accumulated vested and nonvested benefits is not possible. Effective July 1,
2006, the Company froze the defined benefit plan by eliminating all future benefit accruals. Contributions to the Pension Plan are based on each individual employer’s experience. The Company bears the market risk relating to the Pension Plan
and will continue to fund the Pension Plan as required. The Pension Plan year is July 1st through June 30th.  The Company’s participation in the Pension Plan for the annual period
ended December 31, 2011, is outlined in the table below. The “EIN/Pension Plan Number” column provides the Employee Identification Number (“EIN”) and the three-digit plan number. The funding status of the Pension Plan is
determined on the basis of the financial statements provided by the Fund using total plan assets and accumulated benefit obligation. The “FIP/RP Status Pending/Implemented” column indicates plans for which a financial improvement plan
(“FIP”) or a rehabilitation plan (“RP”) is either pending or has been implemented. The “Expiration Date of Collective-Bargaining Agreement” column lists the expiration date(s) of any collective-bargaining agreement(s)
to which the Pension Plan is subject. 
  121



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 




























 
 
 
 
 
Funding Statusof Pension Plan
 
FIP/RP StatusPending/Implemented
 
 
SurchargeImposed
 
 
ExpirationDate ofCollective-BargainingAgreement
 
 
MinimumContributionsRequired forFuturePeriods(1)
 

 Pension Fund
 
EIN/PensionPlan Number
 
 
2011
 
2010
 
 
 
 

 Pentegra Defined Benefit Plan for Financial Institutions
 
 
13-5645888/333
  
 
81.44%as of7/1/2011
 
84.37%as of7/1/2010
 
 
No
  
 
 
No
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
$
—
  
  


(1)
The Company has paid the entire required minimum contribution for the Plan year July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2012 during calendar 2011.
 Contributions to the Fund are based on each individual employer’s experience. The Company’s total
contributions to the Pension Plan did not represent more than 5% of the total contributions to the Pension Plan as indicated in the Pension Plan’s most recently available annual report dated June 30, 2011. The comparability of employer
contributions is impacted by asset performance, discount rates and the reduction in the number of covered employees year over year.  The Company’s contributions to the Pension Plan were as follows for the periods indicated:   
























 
  
 
 
  
Plan Year Allocation
 

 
  
Cash Payment
 
  
2011-2012
 
  
2010-2011
 
  
2009-2010
 
  
2008-2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2011
  
$
2,217
  
  
$
2,217
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
—
  

 2010
  
 
1,794
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,657
  
  
 
137
  
  
 
—
  

 2009
  
 
1,190
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
1,150
  
  
 
40
  
 The Company’s total defined benefit plan expense was $1.9 million, $1.6 million, and $988,000, for
the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  Financial information for the Fund
is made available through the public Form 5500 which is available by April 15th of the year following the plan year end.  POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS
 Employees retiring from the Bank after attaining age 65 who have rendered at least 10 years of continuous service are
entitled to a fixed contribution toward the premium for postretirement health care benefits and a $5,000 death benefit paid. The health care benefits are subject to deductibles, co-payment provisions and other limitations. The Bank may amend or
change these benefits periodically. Postretirement benefit expense was $46,000, $281,000, and $252,000, for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The decrease in the expense is due to a reduction of the
Company’s estimate of future participation of retirees in the Company’s supplemental Medicare wrap program. 
SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLANS  The Bank maintains supplemental retirement plans (“SERP”) for certain highly compensated employees designed to offset the impact of regulatory limits on benefits under qualified pension plans.
The Bank has established and funded Rabbi Trusts to accumulate funds in order to satisfy the contractual liability of these supplemental retirement plan benefits. These agreements provide for the Bank to pay all benefits from its general assets, and
the establishment of these trust funds does not reduce nor otherwise affect the Bank’s continuing liability to pay benefits from such assets except that the Bank’s liability shall be offset by actual benefit payments made from the trusts.
The related trust assets, included in trading securities, totaled $5.0 million and $4.4 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  122



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The following table shows the supplemental retirement expense, and the contributions
paid to the plan which were used only to pay the current year benefits as of the dates indicated:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Retirement Expense
  
$
794
  
  
$
757
  
  
$
679
  

 Contributions Paid
  
 
253
  
  
 
253
  
  
 
226
  
 The Company’s best estimate of contributions expected to be paid in 2012 is $253,000. The following
table shows the benefits expected to be paid in each of the next five years, in the aggregate for the next five fiscal years thereafter and in the aggregate after those 10 years: 
 








 
  
Supplemental ExecutiveRetirement PlansExpected BenefitPayment
 

 Year
  
 (Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
253
  

 2013
  
 
253
  

 2014
  
 
253
  

 2015
  
 
288
  

 2016
  
 
357
  

 2017-2021
  
 
1,927
  

 2022 and later
  
$
22,951
  

  123



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The measurement date used to determine the supplemental executive retirement plans
benefits is December 31st for each of the years reported. The following table illustrates the status of the supplemental executive retirement plans at December 31 for the years presented: 
 
















 
  
Supplemental ExecutiveRetirement Benefits
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Change in accumulated benefit obligation
  



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
5,953
  
 
$
5,597
  
 
$
4,353
  

 Benefit obligation acquired
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Accumulated service cost
  
 
351
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
304
  

 Interest cost
  
 
325
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
271
  

 Plan amendment
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
618
  

 Actuarial loss/(gain)
  
 
1,179
  
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
273
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(258
) 
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
(222
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
7,550
  
 
$
5,953
  
 
$
5,597
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets
  



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  

 Employer contribution
  
 
253
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
222
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(253
) 
 
 
(253
) 
 
 
(222
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  
 
$
 —
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status at end of year
  
$
(7,550
) 
 
$
(5,953
) 
 
$
(5,597
) 

 Assets
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Liabilities
  
 
(7,550
) 
 
 
(5,953
) 
 
 
(5,597
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accrued benefit cost
  
$
(7,550
) 
 
$
(5,953
) 
 
$
(5,597
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), net of tax
  



 



 




 Net loss
  
$
1,744
  
 
$
336
  
 
$
356
  

 Prior service cost
  
 
885
  
 
 
590
  
 
 
656
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts recognized in AOCI, net of tax
  
$
2,629
  
 
$
926
  
 
$
1,012
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Information for plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets
  



 



 




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
7,550
  
 
$
5,953
  
 
$
5,597
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
$
7,550
  
 
$
5,953
  
 
$
5,597
  






 Net periodic benefit cost
  



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
351
  
 
$
335
  
 
$
304
  

 Interest cost
  
 
325
  
 
 
301
  
 
 
271
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
112
  
 
 
113
  
 
 
112
  

 Recognized net actuarial gain
  
 
4
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
(8
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
792
  
 
$
755
  
 
$
679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost over next fiscal
year
  



 



 




 Net actuarial (gain)/loss
  
$
103
  
 
$
(1
) 
 
$
5
  

 Net prior service cost
  
$
112
  
 
$
113
  
 
$
113
  

 Discount rate used for benefit obligation
  
 
4.40
% 
 
 
5.54
% 
 
 
5.49
% 

 Discount rate used for net periodic benefit cost
  
 
5.54
% 
 
 
5.49
% 
 
 
5.54
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  
 
 
n/a
  

  124



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
The Bank from time to time creates an incentive compensation plan for senior management and other officers to participate in at varying
levels. In addition, the Bank sometimes also pays a discretionary bonus to senior management, officers, and/or nonofficers of the Bank. The expense for the incentive plans and the discretionary bonus amounted to $7.8 million, $6.9 million, and $5.5
million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  The Bank has an Employee Savings Plan that qualifies as a deferred salary
arrangement under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the Employee Savings Plan, participating employees may defer a portion of their pre-tax earnings, not to exceed the Internal Revenue Service annual contribution limits. The
Bank matches 25% of each employee’s contributions up to 6% of the employee’s earnings. The 401K Plan incorporates an Employee Stock Ownership Plan for contributions invested in the Company’s common stock. The Plan also provides
nondiscretionary contributions in which employees, with one year of service, receive a 5% cash contribution of eligible pay up to the social security limit and a 10% cash contribution of eligible pay over the social security limit up to the maximum
amount permitted by law. Benefits contributed to employees under the new defined contribution plan vest immediately. The defined contribution plan expense was $3.4 million in 2011, $3.2 million in 2010, and $3.0 million in 2009. 
The Company also maintains a deferred compensation plan for the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors is entitled to
elect to defer their director’s fees until retirement. If the Director elects to do so, their compensation is invested in the Company’s stock and maintained within the Company’s Investment Management Group. The amount of compensation
deferred during 2011, 2010, and 2009 was $136,000, $160,000, and $118,000, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010 the Company had 180,058 and 178,382, of shares provided for the plan with a related liability of $3.0 million and $2.7
million established within shareholders’ equity, respectively.  As a result of the acquisition of Ben Franklin, during
2009 the Company acquired an Employee Stock Ownership Program (“ESOP”). After receiving approval from the Internal Revenue Service the Company began to terminate the plan during 2010. All final distributions to all vested participants were
distributed as of December 31, 2011 and the plan is officially terminated. 
(15)    FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant rather than an
entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Company’s own assumptions are set to reflect those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. If
there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, regardless of the valuation technique(s) used, the objective of a fair value measurement remains the same. Fair value is the price that would be
received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. The Company uses prices
and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an
instrument to be reclassified from one level to another. 
  125



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
The Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the FASB ASC defines fair value and
establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
(Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topic of the FASB ASC are described below:
 Level 1 — Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting
entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.  Level 2 — Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are
not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.  Level 3 — Prices or
valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.  To the extent that
valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value is greatest
for instruments categorized in Level 3. A financial instrument’s level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. 
Valuation Techniques  There have been no changes in the valuation techniques used during the current period. 
Trading Securities  These equity
and fixed income securities are valued based on market quoted prices. These securities are categorized in Level 1 as they are actively traded and no valuation adjustments have been applied.  U.S. Treasury Securities  Fair value is estimated using either multi-dimensional
spread tables or benchmarks. The inputs used include benchmark yields, reported trades, and broker/dealer quotes. These securities are classified as Level 2.  Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities  Fair value is estimated using either a matrix or
benchmarks. The inputs used include benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, and issuer spreads. These securities are categorized as Level 2.  Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations and Private Mortgage-Backed Securities 
The valuation model for these securities is volatility-driven and ratings based, and uses multi-dimensional spread tables. The inputs used include
benchmark yields, recent reported trades, new issue data, broker and dealer quotes, and collateral performance. If there is at least one significant model assumption or input that is not observable, these securities are categorized as Level 3 within
the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, they are classified as Level 2.  Single and Pooled Issuer Trust Preferred Securities
 The fair value of trust preferred securities, including pooled and single issuer preferred securities, is estimated using external pricing
models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques. The inputs used in these valuations include benchmark yields, recent reported trades, new issue data, broker and dealer quotes and collateral performance. These trust preferred
securities are categorized as Level 3. 
  126



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Derivative Instruments 
Derivatives  The valuation of these instruments is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques including discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflects
the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, and uses observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied volatilities. The Company incorporates credit valuation adjustments to appropriately
reflect nonperformance risk in the fair value measurements. In adjusting the fair value of its derivative contracts for the effect of nonperformance risk, the Company has considered the impact of netting and any applicable credit enhancements, such
as collateral postings. Although the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its interest rate derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments associated with its derivatives
utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by the Company and its counterparties. However, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has assessed the significance of the impact
of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and has determined that the credit valuation adjustments are not significant to the overall valuation of its derivatives. As a result, the Company has
determined that its derivative valuations in their entirety are classified in Level 2.  Residential Mortgage Loan
Commitments and Forward Sales Agreements  The fair value of the commitments and agreements are estimated using the
anticipated market price based on pricing indications provided from syndicate banks. These commitments and agreements are categorized as Level 2.  Loans Held for Sale  Effective July 1, 2010, the Company elected to account for
new originations of loans held for sale at fair value. Fair value is measured using quoted market prices when available. If quoted market prices are not available, comparable market values or discounted cash flow analysis may be utilized. These
assets are typically categorized as Level 2.  Impaired Loans  Loans that are deemed to be impaired are valued based upon the lower of cost or fair value of the underlying collateral or discounted cash flow analyses. The inputs used in the appraisals of the
collateral are not always observable, and therefore the loans may be categorized as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, they are classified as Level 2. The inputs used in performing discounted cash flow analyses are not observable
and therefore such loans are classified as Level 3.  Other Real Estate Owned 
The fair values are estimated based upon recent appraisal values of the property less costs to sell the property. Certain inputs used in appraisals are
not always observable, and therefore Other Real Estate Owned may be categorized as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. When inputs in appraisals are observable, they are classified as Level 2. 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  Goodwill and identified intangible assets are subject to impairment testing. The Company conducts an annual impairment test of goodwill in the third quarter of each year and more frequently if necessary.
To estimate the fair value of goodwill and other intangible assets the Company utilizes both a comparable analysis of relevant 
  127



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

price multiples in recent market transactions and discounted cash flow analysis. Both valuation models require a significant degree of management judgment. In the event the fair value as
determined by the valuation model is less than the carrying value, the intangibles may be impaired. If the impairment testing resulted in impairment, the Company would classify goodwill and other intangible assets subjected to nonrecurring fair
value adjustments as Level 3.  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis at December 31 were as
follows:   




















 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
 

 
  
Balance
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Marketsfor
IdenticalAssets        (Level 1)        
 
  
Significant
OtherObservableInputs        (Level 2)        
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2011
  



  




 Description
  



  



  



  




 Assets
  



  



  



  




 Trading Securities
  
$
8,240
  
  
$
8,240
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Securities Available for Sale:
  



  



  



  




 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
238,391
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
238,391
  
  
 
—
  

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
  
 
53,801
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
53,801
  
  
 
—
  

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
6,110
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
6,110
  

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
  
 
4,210
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,210
  

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
  
 
2,820
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,820
  

 Loans Held for Sale
  
 
20,500
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
20,500
  
  
 
—
  

 Derivative Instruments
  
 
25,841
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
25,841
  
  
 
—
  

 Liabilities
  



  



  



  




 Derivative Instruments
  
 
44,407
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
44,407
  
  
 
—
  

 2010
  



  



  



  




 Description
  



  



  



  




 Assets
  



  



  



  




 Trading Securities
  
$
7,597
  
  
$
7,597
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
 —
  

 Securities Available for Sale:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. Treasury Securities
  
 
717
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
717
  
  
 
—
  

 Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
313,302
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
313,302
  
  
 
—
  

 Agency Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
  
 
46,135
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
46,135
  
  
 
—
  

 Private Mortgage-Backed Securities
  
 
10,254
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
10,254
  

 Single Issuer Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
  
 
4,221
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
4,221
  

 Pooled Trust Preferred Securities Issued by Banks and Insurers
  
 
2,828
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,828
  

 Loans Held for Sale
  
 
27,917
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
27,917
  
  
 
—
  

 Derivative Instruments
  
 
12,520
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
12,520
  
  
 
—
  

 Liabilities
  



  



  



  




 Derivative Instruments
  
 
24,280
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
24,280
  
  
 
—
  

  128



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no transfers between
the Levels of the fair value hierarchy for any assets or liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis.  The table
below presents a reconciliation for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3). These instruments were valued using pricing models and discounted cash flow methodologies.
 Reconciliation for All Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on 
a Recurring Basis Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
 




















 
  
Securities Available for Sale
 

 
  
Pooled TrustPreferredSecurities
 
 
Single TrustPreferredSecurities
 
 
PrivateMortgage-BackedSecurities
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Year-to-Date
  



 



 



 




 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
2,595
  
 
$
3,010
  
 
$
14,289
  
 
$
19,894
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gains and Losses (realized/unrealized)
  



 



 



 




 Included in earnings
  
 
(112
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(222
) 
 
 
(334
) 

 Included in Other Comprehensive Income
  
 
388
  
 
 
1,211
  
 
 
1,197
  
 
 
2,796
  

 Purchases
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Sales
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuances
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Settlements
  
 
(43
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(5,010
) 
 
 
(5,053
) 

 Transfers in to Level 3
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
2,828
  
 
$
4,221
  
 
$
10,254
  
 
$
17,303
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gains and Losses (realized/unrealized)
  



 



 



 




 Included in earnings
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(235
) 
 
 
(243
) 

 Included in Other Comprehensive Income
  
 
37
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
49
  
 
 
75
  

 Purchases
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Sales
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Issuances
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Settlements
  
 
(37
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
(3,958
) 
 
 
(3,995
) 

 Transfers in to Level 3
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
2,820
  
 
$
4,210
  
 
$
6,110
  
 
$
13,140
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  129



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at
December 31 were as follows:   
























 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
 

 
  
Balance
 
  
QuotedPrices inActiveMarkets forIdenticalAssets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level 3)
 
  
TotalGains(Losses)
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 Description
  



  



  



  



  




 Impaired Loans
  
$
36,861
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
36,861
  
  
$
(2,682
) 

 Other Real Estate Owned
  
 
6,658
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
6,658
  
  




 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 Description
  



  



  



  



  




 Impaired Loans
  
$
23,411
  
  
$
—
  
  
$
 —
  
  
$
23,411
  
  
$
(2,547
) 

 Other Real Estate Owned
  
 
7,273
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
2,933
  
  
 
4,340
  
  



 The estimated fair values and related carrying amounts of the Company’s financial instruments are as
follows:   




















 
  
DECEMBER2011
 
  
DECEMBER2010
 

 
  
BOOKVALUE
 
  
FAIRVALUE
 
  
BOOKVALUE
 
  
FAIRVALUE
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 FINANCIAL ASSETS
  



  




 Securities Held To Maturity(a)
  
$
204,956
  
  
$
211,494
  
  
$
202,732
  
  
$
201,234
  

 Loans, Net of Allowance for Loan Losses(b)
  
 
3,746,130
  
  
 
3,807,938
  
  
 
3,509,424
  
  
 
3,554,761
  

 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
  



  



  



  




 Time Certificates of Deposits(c)
  
$
630,162
  
  
$
639,333
  
  
$
693,176
  
  
$
697,064
  

 Federal Home Loan Bank Advances(c)
  
 
229,701
  
  
 
233,880
  
  
 
302,414
  
  
 
297,740
  

 Federal Funds Purchased and Assets Sold Under Repurchase Agreements(c)
  
 
216,128
  
  
 
219,857
  
  
 
168,119
  
  
 
171,702
  

 Junior Subordinated Debentures(d)
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
60,620
  
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
60,796
  

 Subordinated Debentures(c)
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
27,217
  
  
 
30,000
  
  
 
23,655
  
  


(a)
The fair values presented are based on quoted market prices, where available. If quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices
of comparable instruments and/or discounted cash flow analyses.     


(b)
Fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and
for the same remaining maturities or cash flows.   


(c)
Fair value was determined by discounting anticipated future cash payments using rates currently available for instruments with similar remaining maturities.
  


(d)
Fair value was determined based upon market prices of securities with similar terms and maturities. 
This summary excludes financial assets and liabilities for which the carrying value approximates fair value. For financial assets, these
include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold, short-term investments, Federal Home Loan Bank stock, and cash surrender value of life insurance policies. For financial liabilities, these include demand, savings, money market deposits, and
federal funds purchased, and assets sold under repurchase agreements. The estimated fair value of demand, savings and money market deposits is the amount payable at the reporting date. Also excluded from the summary are financial instruments
measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis, as previously described. 
  130



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(16)    OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 

 
  
Pre TaxAmount
 
 
Tax (Expense)Benefit
 
 
After TaxAmount
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Change in Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
$
277
  
 
$
(96
) 
 
$
181
  

 Net Security Losses Reclassified into Earnings
  
 
(480
)(1) 
 
 
568
  
 
 
88
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Change in Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
 
(203
) 
 
 
472
  
 
 
269
  

 Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges
  
 
(11,869
)(2) 
 
 
4,848
  
 
 
(7,021
) 

 Net Cash Flow Hedge Gains Reclassified into Earnings
  
 
5,472
  
 
 
(2,274
) 
 
 
3,198
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges
  
 
(6,397
) 
 
 
2,574
  
 
 
(3,823
) 

 Amortization of Certain Costs Included in Net Periodic
  



 



 




 Retirement Costs
  
 
(366
) 
 
 
200
  
 
 
(166
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Other Comprehensive Loss
  
$
(6,966
) 
 
$
3,246
  
 
$
(3,720
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
 

 
  
Pre TaxAmount
 
 
Tax (Expense)Benefit
 
 
After TaxAmount
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Change in Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
$
3,363
  
 
$
(1,356
) 
 
$
2,007
  

 Net Security Losses Reclassified into Earnings
  
 
(124
)(1) 
 
 
29
  
 
 
(95
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Change in Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
 
3,239
  
 
 
(1,327
) 
 
 
1,912
  

 Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges
  
 
(13,346
)(2) 
 
 
5,452
  
 
 
(7,894
) 

 Net Cash Flow Hedge Gains Reclassified into Earnings
  
 
3,983
  
 
 
(1,638
) 
 
 
2,345
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges
  
 
(9,363
) 
 
 
3,814
  
 
 
(5,549
) 

 Amortization of Certain Costs Included in Net Periodic
  



 



 




 Retirement Costs
  
 
199
  
 
 
(81
) 
 
 
118
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Other Comprehensive Loss
  
$
(5,925
) 
 
$
2,406
  
 
$
(3,519
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 




 
  
Year Ended December 31, 2009
 

 
  
Pre TaxAmount
 
 
Tax (Expense)Benefit
 
 
After TaxAmount
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 Cumulative Effect Accounting Adjustment
  
$
(5,974
)(3) 
 
$
2,151
  
 
$
(3,823
) 

 Change in Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
 
7,124
  
 
 
(2,335
) 
 
 
4,789
  

 Net Security Gains Reclassified into Earnings
  
 
7,604
(1) 
 
 
(2,805
) 
 
 
4,799
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Change in Fair Value of Securities Available for Sale
  
 
14,728
  
 
 
(5,140
) 
 
 
9,588
  

 Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges
  
 
14,549
(2) 
 
 
(5,965
) 
 
 
8,584
  

 Net Cash Flow Hedge Gains Reclassified into Earnings
  
 
(1,932
) 
 
 
794
  
 
 
(1,138
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net Change in Fair Value of Cash Flow Hedges
  
 
12,617
  
 
 
(5,171
) 
 
 
7,446
  

 Amortization of Certain Costs Included in Net Periodic
  



 



 




 Retirement Costs
  
 
(982
) 
 
 
394
  
 
 
(588
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Other Comprehensive Income
  
$
20,389
  
 
$
(7,766
) 
 
$
12,623
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Net security losses include pre-tax OTTI credit related losses of $243,000, $334,000, and $9.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. 
  131



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 


(2)
Includes the remaining balance of a realized but unrecognized gain, net of tax, from the termination of interest rate swaps in June 2009. The original gain of $1.3
million, net of tax, will be recognized in earnings through December 2018, the original maturity date of the swap. The balance of this gain had amortized to $1.0 million, $1.1 million, and $1.3 million at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively. Also, includes the remaining balance of a $675,000 realized but unrecognized loss, net of tax, from the termination of an interest rate swap in March 2008. The loss was recognized in earnings through January 2010, the original maturity
date of the interest rate swap. The balance of this loss had amortized to $9,000 at December 31, 2009.   


(3)
Represents reclassifications of noncredit related components of previously recorded OTTI pursuant to the adoption of the Investments — Debt and Equity Securities
topic of the FASB ASC.  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of tax, is comprised of the following
components:   












 
  
At December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Unrealized gain on securities available for sale
  
$
6,574
  
 
$
6,305
  

 Net actuarial loss and prior service cost for pension and other post retirement benefit plans
  
 
(1,260
) 
 
 
(1,094
) 

 Unrealized loss on cash flow hedge
  
 
(10,804
) 
 
 
(7,125
) 

 Deferred net gain on hedge accounting transactions
  
 
1,004
  
 
 
1,148
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
$
(4,486
) 
 
$
(766
) 


  



 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

(17)    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK
 The Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet
the financing needs of its customers and to reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. These financial instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of amounts recognized in the
consolidated balance sheets. The Company uses the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for on-balance sheet instruments.  Off-balance sheet financial instruments whose contractual amounts present credit risk include the following at December 31: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Commitments to extend credit:
  



  




 Fixed rate
  
$
34,732
  
  
$
43,669
  

 Adjustable rate
  
 
4,424
  
  
 
9,412
  

 Unused portion of existing credit lines and loan commitments
  
 
1,138,256
  
  
 
972,489
  

 Unadvanced construction loans
  
 
152,348
  
  
 
108,906
  

 Standby letters of credit
  
 
15,705
  
  
 
21,524
  
 The Company’s exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparty for
commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit is represented by the contractual amounts of those instruments. Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition
established in the contract. The Bank evaluates each customer’s creditworthiness on an individual basis. The amount of collateral obtained upon extension of the credit is based upon management’s credit evaluation of the customer.
Collateral varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, 
  132



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 

plant and equipment and income-producing commercial real estate. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since some of the
commitments may expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements.  Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee performance of a customer to a third party. These standby letters of credit are primarily issued to support the
financing needs of the Bank’s commercial customers. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loans to customers. The collateral supporting those commitments is essentially the
same as for other commitments. Most guarantees extend for one year.  Guarantees are recorded on the Company’s
consolidated balance sheet at fair value at inception. The Company considers standby letters of credit to be guarantees and the amount of the recorded liability related to such guarantees at both December 31, 2011 and 2010 was approximately
$88,000 and $95,000, respectively.  LEASES 
The Company leases office space, space for ATM locations, and certain branch locations under noncancelable operating leases. The following
is a schedule of minimum future lease commitments under such leases as of December 31, 2011:   








 Years
  
LeaseCommitments
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
6,948
  

 2013
  
 
6,772
  

 2014
  
 
6,534
  

 2015
  
 
6,440
  

 2016
  
 
6,242
  

 Thereafter
  
 
26,004
  


  
  
  
 

 Total future minimum rentals
  
$
58,940
  


  
  
  
 
 Rent expense incurred under operating leases was approximately $6.8 million in 2011, $6.9 million in
2010, and $7.0 million in 2009. Several of these leases have renewal options ranging from 3–20 years.  The Company has
entered into lease agreements with related third parties on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated parties. Rent expense incurred under related third party leases was approximately
$1.1 million, $1.0 million, and $1.1 million, in 2011, 2010, and 2009.  OTHER CONTINGENCIES 
At December 31, 2011, Rockland Trust was involved in pending lawsuits that arose in the ordinary course of business. Management has
reviewed these pending lawsuits with legal counsel and has taken into consideration the view of counsel as to their outcome. In the opinion of management, the final disposition of pending lawsuits is not expected to have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial position or results of operations.  The Bank is required to maintain certain reserve requirements
of vault cash and/or deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The amount of this reserve requirement was $22.3 million and $5.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  133



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(18)    REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 
The Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking
agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company’s financial statements.
Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company’s and the Bank’s assets,
liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other
factors.  Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Bank to
maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below) of Total and Tier 1 Capital (as defined) to average assets (as defined) and Tier 1 Capital to risk weighted assets (as defined). Management believes, as of December 31, 2011 and
2010 that the Company and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.  At December 31, 2011
the most recent notification from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as well capitalized, an institution must maintain
minimum total risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based and Tier 1 leverage ratios as set forth in the following tables. There are no conditions or events since the notification that management believes have changed the Bank’s category. The Company’s
and the Bank’s actual capital amounts and ratios as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are also presented in the table that follows:   




































 
  
Actual
 
 
For CapitalAdequacy
Purposes
 
 
To Be Well CapitalizedUnder
PromptCorrective ActionProvisions
 

 
  
Amount
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
 
 
  
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
  
 
 
  
Ratio
 

 
  
(Dollars in Thousands)
 

 As of December 31, 2011:
  




 Company: (Consolidated)
  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Total capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
$
485,688
  
  
 
12.78
% 
 
$
304,097
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
 
N/A
  
  



  
 
N/A
  

 Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
 
408,157
  
  
 
10.74
  
 
 
152,049
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
N/A
  
  



  
 
N/A
  

 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
  
 
408,157
  
  
 
8.61
  
 
 
189,576
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
N/A
  
  



  
 
N/A
  

 Bank:
  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Total capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
$
462,715
  
  
 
12.17
% 
 
$
304,066
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
$
380,082
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
10.0
% 

 Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
 
385,189
  
  
 
10.13
  
 
 
152,033
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
228,049
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
  
 
385,189
  
  
 
8.12
  
 
 
189,698
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
237,123
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
5.0
  

 As of December 31, 2010:
  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Company: (Consolidated)
  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Total capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
$
444,963
  
  
 
12.37
% 
 
$
287,846
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
 
N/A
  
  



  
 
N/A
  

 Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
 
369,965
  
  
 
10.28
  
 
 
143,923
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
N/A
  
  



  
 
N/A
  

 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
  
 
369,965
  
  
 
8.19
  
 
 
180,784
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
N/A
  
  



  
 
N/A
  

 Bank:
  



  



 



  



  



 



  



  




 Total capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
$
429,304
  
  
 
11.92
% 
 
$
288,098
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
8.0
% 
 
$
360,123
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
10.0
% 

 Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets)
  
 
354,267
  
  
 
9.84
  
 
 
144,049
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
216,074
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
6.0
  

 Tier 1 capital (to average assets)
  
 
354,267
  
  
 
7.83
  
 
 
181,039
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
4.0
  
 
 
226,299
  
  
³
 
  
  
 
5.0
  

  134



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(19)    PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Condensed financial information relative to the Parent Company’s balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010
and the related statements of income and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are presented below. The statement of stockholders’ equity is not presented below as the parent company’s stockholders’
equity is that of the consolidated Company.  BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
AT DECEMBER 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Assets:
  




 Cash (1)
  
$
26,391
  
  
$
21,994
  

 Investments in subsidiaries(2)
  
 
513,561
  
  
 
486,918
  

 Deferred tax asset
  
 
4,471
  
  
 
3,663
  

 Deferred stock issuance costs
  
 
169
  
  
 
177
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL ASSETS
  
$
544,592
  
  
$
512,752
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity:
  



  




 Dividends payable
  
$
4,086
  
  
$
3,818
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
  
 
61,857
  
  
 
61,857
  

 Accrued income taxes
  
 
41
  
  
 
—
  

 Derivative instruments
  
 
9,489
  
  
 
7,395
  

 Intercompany payable(1)
  
 
—
  
  
 
3,153
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
62
  
  
 
57
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES
  
 
75,535
  
  
 
76,280
  

 Stockholders’ equity
  
 
469,057
  
  
 
436,472
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  
$
544,592
  
  
$
512,752
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Entire balance eliminates in consolidation.   


(2)
$511,703 and $485,060 eliminate in consolidation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  135



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
















 
  
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 

 
  
      2011      
 
 
      2010      
 
 
      2009      
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 Income:
  




 Dividends received from subsidiaries(1)
  
$
20,962
  
 
$
18,857
  
 
$
23,610
  

 Interest income(2)
  
 
74
  
 
 
85
  
 
 
222
  

 Income from hedging relationship
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
115
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL INCOME
  
 
21,036
  
 
 
18,942
  
 
 
23,947
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
3,820
  
 
 
3,692
  
 
 
3,700
  

 Other expenses
  
 
1
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 TOTAL EXPENSES
  
 
3,821
  
 
 
3,693
  
 
 
3,703
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes and equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
  
 
17,215
  
 
 
15,249
  
 
 
20,244
  

 Income tax benefit
  
 
(1,409
) 
 
 
(1,184
) 
 
 
(786
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 INCOME OF PARENT COMPANY
  
 
18,624
  
 
 
16,433
  
 
 
21,030
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 EQUITY IN UNDISTRIBUTED INCOME OF SUBSIDIARIES
  
 
26,812
  
 
 
23,807
  
 
 
1,959
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
  
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  
 
$
22,989
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
Income of $20,924, $18,819 and $23,557 eliminated in consolidation for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
 


(2)
Entire balance eliminated in consolidation. 
  136



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ,
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(Dollars In Thousands)
 

 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  




 Net income
  
$
45,436
  
 
$
40,240
  
 
$
22,989
  

 ADJUSTMENTS TO RECONCILE NET INCOME TO CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Amortization
  
 
8
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
7
  

 Deferred income tax benefit
  
 
(42
) 
 
 
(110
) 
 
 
—
  

 Decrease in other assets
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
1
  

 Increase (decrease) in other liabilities
  
 
(3,106
) 
 
 
1,480
  
 
 
260
  

 Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries
  
 
(26,812
) 
 
 
(23,807
) 
 
 
(1,959
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES
  
 
15,484
  
 
 
17,810
  
 
 
21,298
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,416
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH PROVIDED BY INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
10,416
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH FLOWS USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from stock issued and stock options exercised
  
 
4,127
  
 
 
743
  
 
 
307
  

 Issuance of preferred stock and stock warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
78,158
  

 Redemption of preferred stock
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(78,158
) 

 Issuance of shares under direct stock purchase plan
  
 
824
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Redemption of warrants
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(2,200
) 

 Dividends paid
  



 



 




 Preferred
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(1,118
) 

 Common
  
 
(16,038
) 
 
 
(15,237
) 
 
 
(13,455
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  
 
(11,087
) 
 
 
(14,494
) 
 
 
(16,466
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
  
 
4,397
  
 
 
3,316
  
 
 
15,248
  

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF THE YEAR
  
 
21,994
  
 
 
18,678
  
 
 
3,430
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END OF THE YEAR
  
$
26,391
  
 
$
21,994
  
 
$
18,678
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  137



Table of Contents
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS — (Continued) 
 
(20)    SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED) 
 




































 
 
FIRSTQUARTER
 
 
SECONDQUARTER
 
 
THIRDQUARTER
 
 
FOURTHQUARTER
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in Thousands, Except Per Share Data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 INTEREST INCOME
 
$
48,958
  
 
$
50,848
  
 
$
49,474
  
 
$
51,319
  
 
$
48,935
  
 
$
50,588
  
 
$
48,382
  
 
$
49,971
  

 INTEREST EXPENSE
 
 
7,485
  
 
 
10,638
  
 
 
7,398
  
 
 
10,152
  
 
 
7,261
  
 
 
9,391
  
 
 
6,528
  
 
 
8,582
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INTEREST INCOME
 
$
41,473
  
 
$
40,210
  
 
$
42,076
  
 
$
41,167
  
 
$
41,674
  
 
$
41,197
  
 
$
41,854
  
 
$
41,389
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
 
2,200
  
 
 
4,650
  
 
 
3,482
  
 
 
6,931
  
 
 
2,000
  
 
 
3,500
  
 
 
3,800
  
 
 
3,575
  

 NON-INTEREST INCOME
 
 
12,638
  
 
 
10,228
  
 
 
12,887
  
 
 
10,541
  
 
 
12,343
  
 
 
11,683
  
 
 
14,354
  
 
 
14,329
  

 GROSS CHANGE ON WRITE-DOWN OF CERTAIN INVESTMENTS TO FAIR VALUE
 
 
249
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
(63
) 
 
 
(318
) 
 
 
207
  
 
 
(48
) 
 
 
172
  

 LESS: PORTION OF OTTI RECOGNIZED IN OCI
 
 
(289
) 
 
 
(358
) 
 
 
(306
) 
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
290
  
 
 
(214
) 
 
 
9
  
 
 
(238
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET LOSS ON WRITE-DOWN OF CERTAIN INVESTMENTS TO FAIR VALUE
 
 
(40
) 
 
 
(178
) 
 
 
(136
) 
 
 
(84
) 
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(39
) 
 
 
(66
) 

 NET (LOSS)/GAIN ON SECURITIES
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
723
  
 
 
481
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 NON-INTEREST EXPENSES
 
 
36,482
  
 
 
33,588
  
 
 
36,856
  
 
 
34,929
  
 
 
35,423
  
 
 
34,540
  
 
 
36,952
  
 
 
36,688
  

 PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES
 
 
4,201
  
 
 
2,795
  
 
 
4,092
  
 
 
2,215
  
 
 
4,607
  
 
 
3,666
  
 
 
4,248
  
 
 
3,551
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 NET INCOME
 
$
11,188
  
 
$
9,227
  
 
$
11,120
  
 
$
8,030
  
 
$
11,959
  
 
$
11,145
  
 
$
11,169
  
 
$
11,838
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
$
0.53
  
 
$
0.44
  
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.56
  
 
$
0.53
  
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
0.56
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
0.44
  
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
0.38
  
 
$
0.56
  
 
$
0.53
  
 
$
0.52
  
 
$
0.56
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average common shares (Basic)
 
 
21,298,257
  
 
 
20,937,589
  
 
 
21,441,864
  
 
 
20,964,706
  
 
 
21,463,714
  
 
 
20,981,372
  
 
 
21,484,695
  
 
 
21,208,509
  

 Common stock equivalents
 
 
46,082
  
 
 
70,833
  
 
 
39,159
  
 
 
90,939
  
 
 
13,077
  
 
 
52,793
  
 
 
19,358
  
 
 
29,973
  

 Weighted average common shares (Diluted)
 
 
21,344,339
  
 
 
21,008,422
  
 
 
21,481,023
  
 
 
21,055,645
  
 
 
21,476,791
  
 
 
21,034,165
  
 
 
21,504,053
  
 
 
21,238,482
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  138



Table of Contents
Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements
With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  None 
Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures 
Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures    The Company carried out an
evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer along with the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, the
Company’s Chief Executive Officer along with the Company’s Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report. 
Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting    There were no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal controls over financial reporting. 
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    Management of Independent Bank Corp.
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act as a process designed by, or under the supervision of,
the Company’s principal executive and principal financial officers and effected by the Company’s Board of Directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Independent Bank Corp.’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflects the transactions and
disposition of the assets of the Company;  (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the Company; and  (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.  Based on
our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011.  Independent Bank Corp.’s independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. That report appears below. 
  139



Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
Independent Bank Corp.:  We have
audited Independent Bank Corp. and subsidiaries’ (the “Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“the COSO Criteria”). The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition use or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, Independent Bank Corp. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2011 consolidated financial statements of Independent Bank Corp. and subsidiaries and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
  

 Boston, Massachusetts  March 9, 2012 
  140



Table of Contents
Item 9B.    Other
Information  None  PART III 
Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 The information required herein is incorporated by reference from the Company’s proxy statement (the “Definitive
Proxy Statement”) relating to its May 17, 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders that will be filed with the Commission within 120 days following the fiscal year end December 31, 2011. 
Item 11.    Executive Compensation 
The information required herein is incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement. 
 


Item 12.    Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2011 about the securities authorized for issuance under the
Company’s equity compensation plans, consisting of the 1996 Director Stock Plan, 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, 2005 Employee Stock Plan, 2006 Nonemployee Director Stock Plan (“2006 Plan”), the BFBC Plan, and 2010 Nonemployee
Director Stock Plan. The Company’s shareholders previously approved each of these plans and all amendments that were subject to shareholder approval. The Company has no other equity compensation plans that have not been approved by
shareholders.  Equity Compensation Plans 
 
















 Equity Compensation Plan Category
  
Number ofSecurities to beIssued uponExercise
ofOutstandingOptions, Warrantsand Rights
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price ofOutstandingOptions,Warrants
andRights
 
  
Number ofSecuritiesRemainingAvailablefor Future IssuanceUnder EquityCompensationPlans(ExcludingSecurities Reflectedin Column
(a))
 

 
  
(a)
 
  
(b)
 
  
(c)
 

 Plans approved by security holders
  
 
976,066
  
  
$
29.18
  
  
 
1,116,978
(1) 

 Plans not approved by security holders
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  
  
 
—
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 TOTAL
  
 
976,066
  
  
$
29.18
  
  
 
1,116,978
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
There are no shares available for future issuance under the 1996 Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, the 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, the 2006
Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, nor the BFBC Plan. There are 850,978 shares available for future issuance under the 2005 Employee Stock Plan. There are 266,000 shares available for future issuance under the 2010 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan.
Shares under the 2005 and 2010 Plans may be issued as non-qualified stock options or restricted stock awards. 
The information required herein by Item 403 of Regulation S-K regarding the security ownership of management and certain beneficial
owners is incorporated by reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement. 
  141



Table of Contents
Item 13.    Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions, and Director Independence  The information required herein is incorporated by
reference from the Definitive Proxy Statement.  Item 14.    Principal
Accounting Fees and Services  The information required herein is incorporated by reference from the
Definitive Proxy Statement.  PART IV  Item 15.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
(a) Documents Filed as Part of this Report  (1) The following financial statements are incorporated herein by reference from Item 8 hereto:  Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
Consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
Consolidated statements of income for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. 
Consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011.
 Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011.
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(2) All schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC are omitted because of the absence of
conditions under which they are required or because the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto.  (3) The following exhibits are filed as part of this Form 10-K, and this list includes the Exhibit Index.  (b) See (a)(3) above for all exhibits filed herewith and the Exhibit Index.  (c)
All schedules are omitted as the required information is not applicable or the information is presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements or related notes. 
  142



Table of Contents
Exhibits Index 
 






  No.
 
 Exhibit




3.(i)
 
Restated Articles of Organization, as adopted May 20, 2010, incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on May 24, 2010.




3.(ii)
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on May 24, 2010.




4.1
 
Specimen Common Stock Certificate, incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.




4.2
 
Specimen preferred Stock Purchase Rights Certificate, incorporated by reference to Form 8-A Registration Statement filed on November 5, 2001.




4.3
 
Indenture of Registrant relating the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities issued to Independent Capital Trust V is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2006 filed on February 28, 2007.




4.4
 
Form of Certificate of Junior Subordinated Debt Security for Independent Capital Trust V (included as Exhibit A to Exhibit 4.9)




4.5
 
Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust for Independent Capital Trust V is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 filed on
February 28, 2007.




4.6
 
Form of Capital Security Certificate for Independent Capital Trust V (included as Exhibit A-1 to Exhibit 4.9).




4.7
 
Guarantee Agreement relating to Independent Capital Trust V is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 filed on February 28,
2007.




4.8
 
Forms of Capital Securities Purchase Agreements for Independent Capital Trust V is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 filed on
February 28, 2007.




4.9
 
Subordinated Debt Purchase Agreement between USB Capital Resources and Rockland Trust Company dated as of August 27, 2008 is incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on
September 2, 2008.




4.10
 
Rockland Trust Company Employee Savings, Profit Sharing and Stock Ownership Plan incorporated by reference to Form S-8 filed on April 16, 2010.




4.11
 
Independent Bank Corp. 2010 Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan incorporated by reference to Form S-3 filed on August 24, 2010.




10.1
 
Independent Bank Corp. 1996 Nonemployee Directors’ Stock Option Plan incorporated by reference to Definitive Proxy Statement for the 1996 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed
on March 19, 1996.




10.2
 
Independent Bank Corp. 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan incorporated by reference to the Definitive Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed on
March 20, 1997.




10.3
 
Independent Bank Corp. Amended and Restated 2005 Employee Stock Plan incorporated by reference to Form S-8 filed on June 17, 2011.




10.4
 
Renewal Rights Agreement dated as of September 14, 2000 by and between the Company and Rockland Trust, as Rights Agent, is incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on
October 23, 2000.




10.5
 
Independent Bank Corp. Deferred Compensation Program for Directors (restated as amended as of December 1, 2000) is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2000.




10.6
 
Master Securities Repurchase Agreement, incorporated by reference to Form S-1 Registration Statement filed on September 18, 1992.




10.7
 
Revised employment agreements between Christopher Oddleifson, Raymond G. Fuerschbach, Edward F. Jankowski, Jane L. Lundquist, Gerard F. Nadeau, Edward H. Seksay, and Denis K.
Sheahan and the Company and/or Rockland Trust and a Rockland Trust Company amended and restated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan dated November 20, 2008 are incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on November 21,
2008.
  143



Table of Contents






  No.
  
 Exhibit




10.8
  
Specimen forms of stock option agreements for the Company’s Chief Executive and other executive officers are incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on December 20,
2005.




10.9
  
On-Site Outsourcing Agreement by and between Fidelity Information Services, Inc. and Independent Bank Corp., effective as of November 1, 2004 is incorporated by reference to
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 filed on March 4, 2005. Amendment to On-Site Outsourcing Agreement incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on May 7, 2008.




10.10
  
New Markets Tax Credit program Allocation Agreement between the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund of the United States Department of the Treasury and Rockland
Community Development with an Allocation Effective Date of September 22, 2004 is incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed on October 14, 2004.




10.11
  
Independent Bank Corp. 2006 Nonemployee Director Stock Plan incorporated by reference to Form S-8 filed on April 17, 2006.




10.12
  
Independent Bank Corp. 2006 Stock Option Agreement for Nonemployee Director is incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2006.




10.13
  
Independent Bank Corp. 2006 Restricted Stock Agreement for Nonemployee Director is incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2006.




10.14
  
New Markets Tax Credit program Allocation Agreement between the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund of the United States Department of the Treasury and Rockland
Community Development with an Allocation Effective Date of January 9, 2007 is incorporated by reference to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 filed on February 28, 2007.




10.15
  
New Markets Tax Credit program Allocation Agreement between the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund of the United States Department of the Treasury and Rockland
Community Development with an Allocation Effective Date of June 18, 2009 is incorporated by reference to the third quarter 2009 Form 10-Q.




10.16
  
Item Processing and Other Services Agreement dated and effective as of July 1, 2010 by and between Fidelity Information Services, Inc. and Independent Bank Corp. is
incorporated by reference to Form 10-Q filed August 5, 2010.




10.17
  
Independent Bank Corp. 2010 Nonemployee Director Stock Plan, incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed May 24, 2010.




10.18
  
Independent Bank Corp. 2010 Stock Option Agreement for Nonemployee Director, incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed May 24, 2010.




10.19
  
Independent Bank Corp. 2010 Restricted Stock Agreement for Nonemployee Director, incorporated by reference to Form 8-K filed May 24, 2010.




23.1
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm*




31.1
  
Section 302 Certification of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is attached hereto.*




31.2
  
Section 302 Certification of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is attached hereto.*




32.1
  
Section 906 Certification of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is attached hereto.+




32.2
  
Section 906 Certification of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 is attached hereto.+




101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document+




101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document+




101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document+




101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document+




101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document+




101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document+
  


*
Filed herewith   


+
Furnished herewith 
  144



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   




INDEPENDENT BANK CORP.



/s/                    
CHRISTOPHER ODDLEIFSON

 CHRISTOPHER ODDLEIFSON,
Chief Executive Officer and President
 Date: March 9, 2012  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated. Each person whose signature appears below hereby makes, constitutes and appoints Christopher Oddleifson and Denis K. Sheahan and each of them acting individually, his true and lawful attorneys, with full power to sign for such person and
in such person’s name and capacity indicated below any and all amendments to this Form 10-K, hereby ratifying and confirming such person’s signature as it may be signed by said attorneys to any and all amendments. 
 








 /s/    CHRISTOPHER
ODDLEIFSON         Christopher Oddleifson
  
 Director CEO/President (Principal Executive Officer)
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    THOMAS J.
TEUTEN         Thomas J. Teuten
  
Director and Chairman of the Board
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    DENIS K.
SHEAHAN         Denis K. Sheahan
  
CFO (Principal Financial Officer)
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    BARRY H.
JENSEN         Barry H. Jensen
  
 Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    DONNA L.
ABELLI         Donna L. Abelli
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    RICHARD S.
ANDERSON         Richard S. Anderson
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    WILLIAM P.
BISSONNETTE         William P. Bissonnette
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    BENJAMIN A. GILMORE,
II         Benjamin A. Gilmore, II
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    KEVIN J.
JONES         Kevin J. Jones
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012
  145



Table of Contents












 /s/    EILEEN C.
MISKELL         Eileen C. Miskell
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    DANIEL F.
O’BRIEN         Daniel F. O’ Brien
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    CARL
RIBEIRO         Carl Ribeiro
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    RICHARD H.
SGARZI         Richard H. Sgarzi
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    JOHN H. SPURR,
JR.         John H. Spurr, Jr.
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    ROBERT D.
SULLIVAN         Robert D. Sullivan
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    BRIAN S.
TEDESCHI         Brian S. Tedeschi
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012





 /s/    THOMAS R.
VENABLES         Thomas R. Venables
  
Director
 
Date: March 9, 2012

  146




