
10-K
1
a2207412z10-k.htm
10-K






QuickLinks
 -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document











 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549  





 
FORM 10-K  











(Mark One)
 
 


ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011


 OR


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the transition period
from                  to                 




 Commission File No. 001-10362  





 
MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 








DELAWARE (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 88-0215232 (I.R.S. Employer
Identification Number)


 3600 Las Vegas Boulevard South—Las Vegas, Nevada (Address of principal executive office)
 
 89109
(Zip Code)



(702) 693-7120 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) 






Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  








Title of each class 
 
Name of each exchange
on which registered 


 Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value
 
  New York Stock Exchange



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None  





 
         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days:    Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K:    ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See the definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act (check one): 















Large accelerated filer ý
 
Accelerated filer o
 
Non-accelerated filer o
 
Smaller reporting company o




         Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act):    Yes o    No ý 
         The aggregate market value of the Registrant's Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2011 (based on the closing
price on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape on June 30, 2011) was $3.8 billion. As of February 20, 2012, 488,852,817 shares of Registrant's Common Stock, $0.01 par value,
were outstanding. 
         Portions
of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this
Form 10-K. 
  

   


 




 










 
 
  PART I     
 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS     
        MGM Resorts International is referred to as the "Company" or the "Registrant," and together with its
subsidiaries may also be referred to as "we," "us" or "our." MGM China Holdings Limited, together with its subsidiaries is referred to as "MGM China."
 Overview  

 Vision, Mission and Strategies  

        MGM Resorts International is one of the world's leading global hospitality companies, operating a world-renowned portfolio of
destination resort brands. We believe the resorts we own, manage and invest in are among the world's finest casino resorts. MGM Resorts International is a Delaware corporation that acts largely as a
holding company; our operations are conducted through our wholly owned subsidiaries. 
        Our
vision is to be the recognized global leader in entertainment and hospitality. To achieve that vision, we:


•Embrace innovation and diversity to inspire excellence; •Reward our employees, invest in our communities and enrich our stakeholders;
and •Engage, entertain and exceed the expectations of our guests worldwide. 

        Our
mission is to be the leader in entertainment and hospitality through a diverse collection of extraordinary people, distinctive brands and best-in-class
destinations. We believe the key elements of our strategic plan will allow us to achieve our mission:


•Owning, developing, operating and strategically investing in a strong portfolio of resorts; •Operating our resorts in a manner that
emphasizes the delivery of excellent customer service while maximizing revenue and
profit; •Increasing brand awareness and customer loyalty through M life; and •Leveraging our strong brands and taking
advantage of significant management experience and expertise. 


 Reportable Segments  

        We have two reportable segments that are based on the regions in which we operate: wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. We
currently operate 15 wholly owned resorts in the United States. MGM China's operations consist of the MGM Macau resort and casino. We have additional business activities including our investments in
unconsolidated affiliates, our MGM Hospitality operations, and certain other corporate and management operations. CityCenter is our most significant unconsolidated affiliate, which we also manage for
a fee. See "Resort Portfolio and Resort Operations" below as well as the segment footnote in the accompanying financial statements for additional information related to our segments. 
 Resort Portfolio and Resort Operations  

 General  

        Our casino resorts offer gaming, hotel, convention, dining, entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. Most of our revenue is
essentially cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely heavily on the ability of our resorts to
generate operating cash flow to repay debt financing, fund capital expenditures and provide excess cash flow for future development. We have historically made significant investments in our resorts
through the addition of new restaurants, entertainment, nightlife offerings as well as other new features and amenities. In 
1



 
addition,
we have made regular capital investments to maintain the quality of our hotel rooms and public spaces. 
        We
believe we operate the highest quality resorts in each of the markets in which we operate. As discussed above, ensuring our resorts are the premier resorts in their respective markets
requires capital investments to maintain the best possible experiences for our guests. The quality of our resorts and amenities can be measured by our success in winning numerous awards, both domestic
and globally, such as several Four and Five Diamond designations from the American Automobile Association, Four and Five Star designations from Mobil Travel and Forbes Travel Guide Four Star awards. 
        Our
results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major conventions, the
amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end gaming customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year. Our results do
not depend on key individual customers, although our success in marketing to customer groups such as convention customers and the financial health of customer segments, such as business travelers or
high-end gaming customers from a country or region can affect our results. Certain of our resorts earn significant revenues from high-end gaming business, which can lead to
variability in our results. 
        All
of our casino resorts operate 24 hours a day, every day of the year, with the exception of Grand Victoria which operates 22 hours a day, every day of the year. At our
wholly owned domestic resorts, our primary casino and hotel operations are owned and managed by us. Other resort amenities may be owned and operated by us, owned by us but managed by third parties for
a fee, or leased to third parties. We generally have an operating philosophy that favors ownership and management of
amenities, since guests have direct contact with staff in these areas and we prefer to control all aspects of the guest experience; however, we do lease space to retail and food and beverage
operators, particularly for branding opportunities and when capital investment by us is not desirable or feasible. We also operate many managed outlets, utilizing third-party management for specific
expertise in operations of restaurants and nightclubs. 
        We
selectively acquire, invest in and develop resorts in markets with a stable regulatory history and environment. As seen in the table below, this means that a large portion of our
resorts are located in Nevada. We target markets with growth potential and we believe there is growth potential in investing in and managing both gaming and non-gaming resorts. Our growth
strategies are discussed in greater detail below under "Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets." 
2



 

 Our Operating Resorts  

        We have provided certain information below about our resorts as of December 31, 2011. Except as otherwise indicated, we wholly
own and operate the resorts shown below. 






















Name and Location 
 
Number of
Guestrooms
and Suites 
 
Approximate
Casino Square
Footage 
 
Slots (1) 
 
Gaming
Tables (2) 
 


 Las Vegas Strip, Nevada
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 CityCenter - 50% owned (3)
 
 
5,826
 
 
150,000
 
 
2,005
 
 
132
 


 Bellagio
 
 
3,933
 
 
160,000
 
 
2,135
 
 
143
 


 MGM Grand Las Vegas (4)
 
 
6,020
 
 
158,000
 
 
1,964
 
 
169
 


 Mandalay Bay
 
 
4,752
 
 
160,000
 
 
1,766
 
 
93
 


 The Mirage
 
 
3,044
 
 
118,000
 
 
1,746
 
 
94
 


 Luxor
 
 
4,400
 
 
100,000
 
 
1,363
 
 
62
 


 Excalibur
 
 
3,981
 
 
91,000
 
 
1,575
 
 
61
 


 New York-New York
 
 
2,024
 
 
84,000
 
 
1,451
 
 
69
 


 Monte Carlo
 
 
2,992
 
 
102,000
 
 
1,412
 
 
58
 


 Circus Circus Las Vegas
 
 
3,767
 
 
119,000
 
 
1,480
 
 
44
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Subtotal
 
 
40,739
 
 
1,242,000
 
 
16,897
 
 
925
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other Nevada
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Circus Circus Reno (Reno)
 
 
1,572
 
 
70,000
 
 
915
 
 
35
 


 Silver Legacy - 50% owned (Reno) (5)
 
 
1,709
 
 
89,000
 
 
1,401
 
 
63
 


 Gold Strike (Jean)
 
 
300
 
 
37,000
 
 
448
 
 
7
 


 Railroad Pass (Henderson)
 
 
120
 
 
13,000
 
 
324
 
 
6
 


 Other Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 MGM Macau - 51% owned (Macau S.A.R.) (6)
 
 
582
 
 
317,000
 
 
1,184
 
 
427
 


 MGM Grand Detroit (Detroit, Michigan) (7)
 
 
400
 
 
100,000
 
 
4,026
 
 
95
 


 Beau Rivage (Biloxi, Mississippi)
 
 
1,740
 
 
77,000
 
 
2,048
 
 
85
 


 Gold Strike (Tunica, Mississippi)
 
 
1,133
 
 
50,000
 
 
1,303
 
 
55
 


 Grand Victoria - 50% owned (Elgin, Illinois)
 
 
-
 
 
33,000
 
 
1,127
 
 
26
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Grand Total
 
 
48,295
 
 
2,028,000
 
 
29,673
 
 
1,724
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Includes
slot machines, video poker machines and other electronic gaming devices.  (2)Includes
blackjack ("21"), baccarat, craps, roulette and other table games; does not include poker.  (3)Includes
Aria with 4,004 rooms and Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas with 392 rooms. Vdara includes 1,495 units, of which 156 have been sold as condominium-hotel
units. 1,430 units in Vdara are currently available for rent, including 1,339 company-owned units and 91 units owned by third parties.  (4)Includes
1,006 rooms available for rent at The Signature at MGM Grand.  (5)The
other 50% of Silver Legacy is owned by Eldorado LLC. The other 50% of Grand Victoria is owned by an affiliate of Hyatt Gaming, who also operates
that resort.  (6)MGM
Macau is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MGM China. On June 3, 2011, we acquired an additional 1% interest and obtained a controlling
interest in MGM China and began consolidating the results of MGM China at that time.  (7)Our
local partners have an ownership interest of approximately 3% of MGM Grand Detroit. 

        More detailed information about each of our operating resorts can be found in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, which Exhibit is incorporated herein by reference. 
        Wholly owned domestic operations. Over half of the net revenue from our wholly owned domestic resorts is derived from non-gaming
operations, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other non-gaming amenities. Our significant convention and meeting facilities allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and
customer volumes during off-peak times such as mid-week or during traditionally slower leisure travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization. Our operating
results are highly dependent on the volume of customers
at our resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. We market to different customer segments to manage our hotel occupancy, such as targeting large
conventions to increase mid-week occupancy. 
3



 
        Our
casino operations feature a variety of slots, table games, and race & sports book wagering. In addition, we offer our premium players access to high-limit rooms
and lounge experiences where players may enjoy an upscale atmosphere. A significant portion of our operating income is generated from the high-end gaming segment, which can cause
variability in our results. 
         MGM China. On June 3, 2011, we and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King ("Ms. Pansy Ho") completed a reorganization of the capital
structure of MGM China pursuant to which we acquired an additional 1% interest in MGM China and thereby became the owner of 51% of MGM China. Through the acquisition of the additional 1% interest of
MGM China, we obtained a controlling interest and were required to consolidate MGM China as of June 3, 2011. Prior to the transaction, we held a 50% interest in MGM Grand Paradise, S.A.
("MGM Grand Paradise"), which was accounted for under the equity method. We believe our ownership interest in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster
future growth and profitability. Asia is the fastest-growing gaming market in the world and Macau is the world's largest gaming destination in terms of revenue and has continued to grow over the past
few years despite the global economic downturn. 
        Our
MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau resort and casino. Revenues at MGM Macau are generated primarily from gaming operations made up of two distinct market segments: main floor
and high-end ("VIP"). MGM Macau main floor operations consist of both table games and slot machines on the main gaming floors for the public, which usually consists of walk-in
and day trip visitors. VIP players play mostly in dedicated VIP rooms or designated gaming areas. VIP customers can be further divided into customers sourced by in-house VIP programs and
those sourced through gaming promoters. A significant portion of our VIP volume is generated through gaming promoters, also known as junket operators, which introduce high-end gaming
players to MGM Macau, assist these customers with travel arrangements, and extend gaming credit to these players. 
        Gaming
operations at MGM Macau are conducted under a gaming subconcession held by MGM Grand Paradise. The Macau government has granted three gaming concessions and each of these
concessionaires has granted a subconcession. The MGM Grand Paradise gaming subconcession was granted by Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A., ("SJM") and expires in 2020. The Macau government
currently prohibits additional concessions and subconcessions, but does not place a limit on the number
of casinos or gaming areas operated by the concessionaires and subconcessionaires, though additional casinos require government approval prior to commencing operations. 

 Customers and Competition  

        Our casino resorts operate in highly competitive environments. We compete against gaming companies, as well as other hospitality
companies in the markets we operate in, neighboring markets, and in other parts of the world, including non-gaming resort destinations such as Hawaii and Florida. Our gaming operations
compete to a lesser extent with state-sponsored lotteries, off-track wagering, card parlors, and other forms of legalized gaming in the United States. 
        Our
primary methods of successful competition include:


•Locating our resorts in desirable leisure and business travel markets and operating at superior sites within those
markets; •Constructing and maintaining high-quality resorts and facilities, including luxurious guestrooms,
state-of-the-art convention facilities and premier dining, entertainment, retail and other amenities; •Recruiting, training and retaining well-qualified and motivated employees who
provide superior and friendly
customer service; •Providing unique, "must-see" entertainment attractions; and •Developing distinctive and memorable
marketing, promotional and customer loyalty programs. 

4



 
         Wholly owned domestic resorts. Our Las Vegas casino resorts compete for customers with a large number of other hotel casinos in the Las Vegas area,
including major hotel casinos on or near the Las Vegas Strip, major hotel casinos in the downtown area, which is about five miles from the center of the Strip, and several major hotel casinos
elsewhere in the Las Vegas area. Our Las Vegas Strip resorts also compete, in part, with each other. According to the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority, there were approximately 150,000
guestrooms in Las Vegas at December 31, 2011 and 149,000 at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, we operated approximately 27% of the guestrooms in Las Vegas. Las Vegas
visitor volume was 38.9 million in 2011, a 4% increase from the 37.3 million reported for 2010. 
        The
Las Vegas market includes leisure travel customers; premium gaming customers; convention customers, including small meetings, trade associations, and corporate incentive programs;
and tour and travel customers. Our luxury wholly owned resorts, including Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas, Mandalay Bay and The Mirage, appeal to the upper end of each market segment, balancing their
business by using the convention and tour and travel segments to fill the mid-week and off-peak periods. Our marketing strategy for New York-New York, Luxor and
Monte Carlo is aimed at attracting middle- to upper-middle-income customers, largely from the leisure travel and the tour and travel segments. Excalibur and Circus Circus Las Vegas generally cater to
the value-oriented and middle-income leisure travel and tour and travel segments. 
        Outside
Las Vegas, our other Nevada operations compete with each other and with many other similarly sized and larger operations. Our Nevada resorts located outside of Las Vegas appeal
primarily to the value-oriented leisure traveler and the value-oriented local customer. A significant number of our customers at these resorts come from California. We believe the expansion of Native
American gaming in California has had a negative impact on all of our Nevada resorts not located on the Las Vegas Strip, and additional expansion in California could have a further adverse effect on
these resorts. 
        Outside
Nevada, our resorts primarily compete for customers in local and regional gaming markets, where location is a critical factor to success. In addition, we compete with gaming
operations in surrounding jurisdictions and other leisure destinations in each region. For example, in Detroit, Michigan we also compete with a casino in nearby Windsor, Canada and with Native
American casinos in Michigan. In Biloxi, Mississippi we also compete with regional riverboat and land-based casinos in Louisiana, Native American casinos in central Mississippi and with
casinos in Florida and the Bahamas. 
         MGM China. Our key competitors in Macau include five other gaming concessionaires and subconcessionaires. MGM China was the last of its key
competitors to open a property and continues to build customer loyalty. MGM Macau has steadily improved its operating results as gaming volumes have increased. If the Macau government were to grant
additional concessions or subconcessions, we will face additional competition which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We also
encounter competition from other major gaming centers located in other areas of Asia and around the world, including Singapore, Malaysia, Australia, Las Vegas, cruise ships in Asia that offer gaming
and from unlicensed gaming operations in the region. 
        The
two primary customer segments in the Macau gaming market are VIP and mass market. VIP gaming play is sourced both internally and externally. Externally sourced VIP gaming play is
obtained through external gaming promoters who offer VIP players various services, such as extension of credit as well as complimentary hotel, food and beverage services. External gaming promoters
operate VIP gaming rooms within the property. We typically pay commissions to external gaming promoters based on gaming wins or losses. Internally sourced VIP clientele are those acquired through our
direct marketing efforts; we extend credit and provide complimentaries to these customers without the use of an intermediary. 
        Historically,
gaming operators in Macau have mainly focused on VIP players, but we have increased our focus on the mass market segment. The mass market segment consists of both table
games and slot machines played on the main gaming floors, consisting mainly of walk-in and day-trip visitors. The mass market segment is the highest margin sector of the
overall gaming market and exceeds the VIP segment 
5



 
due
to the latter's commission costs to gaming promoters. Gaming revenues from the main gaming floors have grown significantly in recent years and we expect a larger portion of MGM Macau's gaming
revenues to come from the mass market segment in future periods. 
        Corporate and other. Aria, which we manage and of which we own 50% through the CityCenter joint venture ("CityCenter"), appeals to the upper end of
each segment in the Las Vegas market and competes with our wholly owned luxury casino resorts and other luxury resorts on the Las Vegas Strip. Our other unconsolidated affiliates mainly compete for
customers against casino resorts in their respective markets. Much like our wholly owned resorts, our unconsolidated affiliates compete through the quality of amenities, the value of the experience
offered to guests, and the location of their resorts. 

 Marketing  

        Our marketing efforts are conducted through various means, including our loyalty programs as discussed further below. We advertise on
the radio, television, internet and billboards and in newspapers and magazines in selected cities throughout the United States and overseas, as well as by direct mail and through the use of social
media. We also advertise through our regional marketing offices located in major U.S. and foreign cities. A key element of marketing to premium gaming customers is personal contact by our marketing
personnel. Direct marketing is also important in the convention segment. We maintain websites to inform customers about our resorts and allow our customers to reserve hotel rooms, make restaurant
reservations and purchase show tickets. We actively utilize several social media sites to promote our brands, unique events, and special deals. 
         Wholly owned domestic resorts. We introduced a new loyalty program, M life in late 2010. M life is a broad-based program recognizing and rewarding
customer spending across most channels focusing on wallet share capture, increased loyalty, unique and exclusive offerings and instant gratification. M life provides access to rewards, privileges, and
members-only events. M life is a tiered system and allows customers to qualify for benefits across our participating resorts and in both gaming and non-gaming areas,
encouraging customers to keep their total spend within our casino resorts. Customers earn free play and "express comps" for their gaming play which can be redeemed at restaurants, box offices, the M
life loyalty club, or kiosks at participating properties. Members can also redeem their express comps for M life "Moments," which allow members to take advantage of unique and
once-in-a-lifetime experiences such as picking the Bellagio Fountain songs for a day, being a trainer for a day with the dolphins at The Mirage and
meet-and-greets with performers and celebrity chefs across our resort portfolio. Members can utilize the M life website, www.mlife.com to see offers, reward levels and point
and express comp balances. 
        M
life utilizes advanced analytic techniques and information technology which identify customer preferences and helps predict future customer behavior, allowing us to make more relevant
offers to customers, influence incremental visits, and help build lasting customer relationships. 
        In
addition to the loyalty program, we have re-branded our company magazine as M life and developed an in-room M life television channel to highlight
customers' experiences and showcase "Moments" customers can earn through the accumulation of express comps. 
        We
also utilize our world-class golf courses in marketing programs at our Las Vegas Strip resorts. Our major Las Vegas resorts offer luxury suite packages that include golf privileges at
Shadow Creek in North Las Vegas. In connection with our marketing activities, we also invite our premium gaming customers to play Shadow Creek on a complimentary basis. We also use Primm Valley Golf
Club for
marketing purposes at our Las Vegas Strip resorts. Additionally, marketing efforts at Beau Rivage benefit from Fallen Oak golf course 20 minutes north of Beau Rivage. 
         MGM China. MGM Macau's loyalty program is the Golden Lion Club, a tiered program which meets the needs of a range of customers from lower spending
leisure and entertainment customers through the highest level VIP cash players. The structured rewards system based on member value and tiers ensures 
6



 
that
customers can progressively access the full range of services that the resort provides. The program is aspirational by design and transparent in its rewards, encouraging customers to increase
both visitation and spend. In addition to the rewards offered to Golden Lion Club members, MGM Macau has developed dedicated gaming and non-gaming areas to reflect different levels of
rated play. Information from the Golden Lion Club is used to analyze customer usage by segment and individual player profile. 
        In
addition to the Golden Lion Club program, the resort has also created and continues to expand several luxurious private gaming salons that provide a distinctive, high-end
environment for the VIP players brought to the resort through gaming promoters and the in-house VIP marketing team. The resort has created a variety of incentive programs to reward gaming
promoters for increased business and efficiency. 

 Employees and Management  

        We believe that knowledgeable, friendly and dedicated employees are a key success factor. Therefore, we invest heavily in recruiting,
training, motivating and retaining exceptional employees, as well as seeking to hire and promote the strongest management team possible. We have numerous programs, both at the corporate and business
unit level, designed to achieve these objectives. We believe our internal development programs, such as the MGM Resorts University and various leadership and management training programs, are best in
class among our industry peers. 

 Technology  

        We utilize various types of technology to maximize revenue and efficiency in our operations. We continue to move forward on
standardizing the technology platforms for our hotel systems, along with several other key operational systems. The standardization of these systems provides us with one consistent operating platform,
allowing us efficiencies in training, reducing complexity in system integration and interfaces, standardizing processes across our casino resorts, and providing our customers with better information.
These systems capture charges made by our customers during their stay, including allowing customers of our resorts to charge meals and services at our other resorts to their hotel accounts. In
addition, we utilize yield management programs at many of our resorts that help us maximize occupancy and room rates. 
        In
2012, we are rolling out an internet booking engine that brings together our domestic portfolio of destinations. The new booking engine allows guests the ability to create an
all-inclusive experience, from accommodations to dining to shows. In addition, guests will be able to share their vacation plans with others via social media. Available through all of our
domestic resorts' individual websites, the new booking engine gives guests the power to customize a complete itinerary from our full portfolio of experiences, all in one place. This experience is a
significant improvement over traditional hotel booking engines which require guests to visit multiple sites for dining, hotel and entertainment reservations. The booking engine is also beneficial to M
life members, through full integration with www.mlife.com. With future plans to enable members to redeem express comps, members will enjoy powerful benefits, including easier access to their
customized offers. 

 Corporate Social Responsibility  

        Our corporate social responsibility efforts are overseen by the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors. 
         Environmental Sustainability. We have continued to gain recognition for our comprehensive environmental responsibility initiatives, and in 2011 we
released our first Environmental Responsibility Report documenting our philosophy, commitment, and accomplishments. Our resorts in Nevada and Michigan were the first to earn certification from Green
Key, the largest international program evaluating sustainable hotel operations. We received certifications at 12 resorts, including "Five Green Key" (the 
7



 
highest
possible) ratings at Aria, Vdara and Mandalay Bay. Many major travel service providers recognize the Green Key designation and identify our resorts for their continued commitment to
sustainable hotel operations. 
        In
addition, we believe that incorporating the tenets of sustainability in our business decisions provides a platform for innovation and operational efficiency. CityCenter is one of the
world's largest private green developments. Aria, Vdara, Crystals, Mandarin Oriental, Veer, and the Aria Convention Center all have received LEED® Gold certification by the U.S. Green
Building Council. With this accomplishment, CityCenter created a new standard for combining luxury and environmental responsibility within the large-scale hospitality industry. 
        We
incorporate the same commitment to the environment at MGM Macau. Our efforts to improve energy efficiency, indoor air quality, and environmental stewardship have resulted in MGM Macau
receiving the Macau Environmental Protection Bureau – Macau Green Hotel Award. 
        Diversity. Our award-winning diversity program is designed to identify and develop programs and practices that give sustainable life and momentum to
diversity within our company and our suppliers. The diversity initiative at our wholly owned domestic resorts focuses on the unique strengths of our individuals, combined with a culture of
collaborative teamwork to achieve greater performance. Our diversity program has been widely recognized and has been awarded numerous accolades. 
         Philanthropy and community. Our community and social investments are prioritized to strengthen the communities where our employees live, work and
care for their families. Key investment areas include basic human needs, diversity, education, and health and wellness. Our community outreach and philanthropic efforts are accomplished through the
employee-funded MGM Resorts Foundation, our corporate Charitable Giving Program, and our Employee Volunteer Program. 

 Internal Controls  

        We have a strong culture of compliance, driven by our history in the highly regulated gaming industry and our belief that compliance is
a value-added activity. Our system of
internal controls and procedures – including internal control over financial reporting – is designed to promote reliable and accurate financial records,
transparent disclosures, compliance with laws and regulations, and protection of our assets. Our internal controls start at the source of business transactions, and we have rigorous enforcement at
both the business unit and corporate level. 
        We
have a corporate internal audit function that performs regular reviews regarding gaming compliance, internal controls over financial reporting, and operations. In addition, we
maintain an independent compliance committee that administers our company-wide compliance plan. The compliance plan is in place to promote compliance with gaming and other laws applicable
to our operations in all jurisdictions, including performing background investigations on our current and potential employees, directors and vendors as well as thorough review of proposed transactions
and associations. Although the corporate internal audit function and the company-wide compliance plan are not applicable to MGM China, which is a publically traded subsidiary, MGM China has its own
internal audit group with similar responsibilities and has established a compliance program at MGM Macau which is modeled after our program. 
        In
connection with the supervision of gaming activities at our casinos, we maintain stringent controls on the recording of all receipts and disbursements and other activities, including
cash transaction reporting which is essential in our industry. Our controls surrounding cash transactions include locked cash boxes on the casino floor, daily cash counts performed by employees who
are independent of casino operations, constant observation and supervision of the gaming area, observation and recording of gaming and other areas by closed-circuit television, constant computer
monitoring of our slot machines, and timely analysis of deviations from expected performance. 
8



 
        Marker
play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at our high-end resorts. Our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although
we offer markers to customers at certain of those casinos as well. We maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to timely
pay their marker balances. These collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and
delinquency notices, direct personal contact and the use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation. 
        In
our U.S. jurisdictions, amounts owed for markers which are not timely paid are enforceable under state laws and all other states are required to enforce a judgment for amounts owed,
pursuant to the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Amounts owed for markers that are not timely paid are not legally enforceable in some foreign countries, but the U.S. assets of
foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign
debtors may be reached to
satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations. 
        Furthermore,
we expect that MGM Macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM Macau gaming customers and
gaming promoters are from other jurisdictions, MGM Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many
jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM Macau remains obligated to pay taxes on
uncollectible winnings from customers. 
 Leveraging Our Brand and Management Assets  
        In allocating resources, our financial strategy is focused on managing a proper mix of investing in existing resorts, spending on new
resorts or initiatives and repaying long-term debt. We believe there are reasonable investments for us to make in new initiatives and at our current resorts that will provide profitable
returns, although these decisions have been significantly affected by economic conditions over the past several years which has limited our access to capital. 
        We
regularly evaluate possible expansion and acquisition opportunities in both the domestic and international markets, but cannot at this time determine the likelihood of proceeding with
specific development opportunities. Opportunities we evaluate may include the ownership, management and operation of gaming and other entertainment facilities in Nevada or in states other than Nevada
or outside of the United States. We leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. We feel that
several of our brands, particularly the "MGM Grand," "Bellagio," and "Skylofts" brands, are well suited to new projects in both gaming and non-gaming developments. We may undertake these
opportunities either alone or in cooperation with one or more third parties. 

 MGM Hospitality  

        We formed MGM Hospitality, LLC ("MGM Hospitality") to focus on strategic resort development and management opportunities, with
an emphasis on international opportunities which we believe offer the greatest opportunity for future growth. We have hired senior personnel with established backgrounds in the development and
management of international hospitality operations to maximize the profit potential of MGM Hospitality's operations. MGM
Hospitality has signed multiple technical and management services agreements for resorts in the Middle East, North Africa, India and China. We have minimal capital investments in the projects
discussed below. 
         Diaoyutai joint venture. We have formed a joint venture with the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing, People's Republic of China, to develop luxury
non-gaming hotels and resorts in China. Our first 
9



 
resort,
for which we provided development services and now manage, is the 675-room MGM Grand Sanya on Hainan Island, People's Republic of China, which opened in January 2012. 
         Vietnam. In November 2008, we and Asian Coast Development Ltd. announced plans to develop MGM Grand Ho Tram, which is expected to open in
2013. MGM Grand Ho Tram will anchor a multi-property complex on the Ho Tram Strip in the Ba Ria Vung Tau Province in southwest Vietnam. MGM Grand Ho Tram will be owned and financed by Asian Coast
Development Ltd. and we will provide technical assistance and operate the luxury-integrated resort upon completion. 

 Other  

         Bwin.party. In October 2011, we announced a strategic partnership with bwin.party digital entertainment plc, the world's largest publicly
traded online poker operator with operations under the "PartyPoker" brand. Although interstate online gambling is currently prohibited in the United States, this partnership gives us the ability to
offer a secure and regulated online gaming platform to U.S. customers subject to the limitations of applicable federal and state laws and regulations. 
        Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation. We have an agreement with the Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation ("MPTN"), which owns and operates Foxwoods Casino
Resort in Mashantucket, Connecticut for the casino resort owned and operated by MPTN located adjacent to the Foxwoods Casino Resort to carry the "MGM Grand" brand name. We earn a fee for MPTN to use
the "MGM Grand" name. 
 Intellectual Property  
        Our principal intellectual property consists of trademarks for, among others, Bellagio, The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, MGM Grand, Luxor,
Excalibur, New York-New York, Circus Circus and Beau Rivage, all of which have been registered or allowed in various classes in the U.S. We are currently undergoing the application process
for the MGM Resorts International trademark. In addition, we have also registered or applied to register numerous other trademarks in connection with our properties, facilities and development
projects in the U.S. We have also registered and/or applied to register many of our trademarks in various other foreign jurisdictions. These trademarks are brand names under which we market our
properties and services. We consider these brand names to be important to our business since they have the effect of developing brand identification. We believe that the name recognition, reputation
and image that we have developed attract customers to our facilities. Once granted, our trademark registrations are of perpetual duration so long as they are used and periodically renewed. It is our
intent to pursue and maintain our trademark registrations consistent with our goals for brand development and identification, and enforcement of our trademark rights. 
 Employees and Labor Relations  
        As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 45,000 full-time and 16,000 part-time employees
domestically, of which 5,800 and 2,600, respectively, related to CityCenter. In addition, we had 5,700 full-time employees and 100 part-time employees at MGM Macau. At that
date, we had collective bargaining contracts with unions covering approximately 30,000 of our employees. The collective bargaining agreements covering most of our Las Vegas union employees expire in
2013, but are subject to renegotiation in 2012 under certain economic reopening clauses. In November 2011, we and approximately 2,300 employees at MGM Grand Detroit approved a new union contract which
expires in 2015. As of December 31, 2011, none of the employees of MGM Macau are part of a labor union and the resort is not party to any collective bargaining agreements. We consider our
employee relations to be good. 
 Regulation and Licensing  
        The gaming industry is highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. Each of our
casinos is subject to extensive regulation under the laws, rules and regulations of the jurisdiction in which it is located. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the 
10



 
responsibility,
financial stability and character of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interest in the gaming operations. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in
disciplinary action in other jurisdictions. 
        A
more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which Exhibit is
incorporated herein by reference. 
        Our
businesses are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to,
restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such
laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in
interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. 
 Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  
        This Form 10-K and our 2011 Annual Report to Stockholders contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of
the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "seeks," "believes," "estimates," "expects,"
"will," "may" and similar references to future periods. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make regarding our ability to generate significant cash
flow, amounts we will invest in capital expenditures, amounts we will pay under the CityCenter completion guarantee, the opening of
certain strategic resort developments, and the amount we will receive from the MGM China dividend. The foregoing is not a complete list of all forward-looking statements we make. 
        Forward-looking
statements are based on our current expectations and assumptions regarding our business, the economy and other future conditions. Because forward-looking statements
relate to the future, they are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by
the forward-looking statements. They are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees or assurances of future performance. Therefore, we caution you against relying on any of these
forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, regional, national or
global political, economic, business, competitive, market, and regulatory conditions and the following:


•our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our development options and
financial results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations; •current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance
our
indebtedness and to make planned expenditures and investments; •restrictions and limitations in the agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness could
significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity; •significant competition we face with respect to destination travel locations
generally and with respect to our peers in
the industries in which we compete; •restrictions on our ability to have any interest or involvement in gaming business in China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan,
other than through MGM China; •the fact that our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply with such
regulations could adversely affect our business; •the impact on our business of economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and in the locations in
which our customers reside; 

11



 


•the ability of the Macau Government to terminate MGM Grand Paradise's gaming subconcession under certain circumstances
without compensating MGM Grand Paradise or refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the subconcession, which is scheduled to expire on March 31, 2020; •extreme weather
conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business; •the sensitivity of our business to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating
results; •
the concentration of our major gaming resorts on the Las Vegas Strip; •the fact that we extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to
collect gaming receivables; •the dependence of MGM Macau upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of gaming revenues in Macau; •the susceptibility of leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, to global geopolitical events, such as
terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility; •the fact that investing through partnerships or joint ventures including CityCenter decreases our ability to manage risk;
•the fact that our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In
addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future; •the fact that CityCenter has decided to abate the potential for
structural collapse of the Harmon in the event of a
code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, which exposes us to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition process; •risks related to pending claims that have been, or
future claims that may be brought against us; •the fact that Tracinda Corporation owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from
the interests of other holders of our stock; •the potential for conflicts of interest to arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM
China, which is now a publicly traded company listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange; •the risks associated with doing business outside of the United States; •the fact that a significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining agreements; •the potential that failure to maintain
the integrity of internal customer information could result in damage of reputation
and/or subject us to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or other restrictions on our use or transfer of data; •the potential occurrence of impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived
intangible assets or long-lived assets
which could negatively affect future profits; and •the fact that a failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and
adversely affect our business. 

        Any
forward-looking statement made by us in this Form 10-K or our 2011 Annual Report speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause
our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as
a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as may be required by law. 
        You
should also be aware that while we from time to time communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose to them any material non-public information, internal
forecasts or other confidential business information. Therefore, you should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, irrespective of the content of the statement or
report. To the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain projections, forecasts or opinions, those reports are not our responsibility and are not endorsed by us. 
12



 
 Executive Officers of the Registrant  
        The following table sets forth, as of February 29, 2012, the name, age and position of each of our executive officers. Executive
officers are elected by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. 














Name 
 
Age 
 
Position 


James J. Murren
 
 
50
 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Director


Robert H. Baldwin
 
 
61
 
Chief Design and Construction Officer and Director


William J. Hornbuckle
 
 
54
 
Chief Marketing Officer


Corey I. Sanders
 
 
48
 
Chief Operating Officer


Daniel J. D'Arrigo
 
 
43
 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


Phyllis A. James
 
 
59
 
Executive Vice President, Special Counsel—Litigation and Chief Diversity Officer


Aldo Manzini
 
 
48
 
Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer


John M. McManus
 
 
44
 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Christopher Nordling
 
 
51
 
Executive Vice President of Operations


William M. Scott IV
 
 
51
 
Executive Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Special Counsel


Robert C. Selwood
 
 
56
 
Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer


Rick Arpin
 
 
39
 
Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller


Alan Feldman
 
 
53
 
Senior Vice President—Public Affairs


James A. Freeman
 
 
43
 
Senior Vice President—Capital Markets and Strategy


Shawn T. Sani
 
 
46
 
Senior Vice President—Taxes




        Mr. Murren has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since December 2008 and as President since December 1999. He
served as Chief Operating Officer from August 2007 through December 2008. He was Chief Financial Officer from January 1998 to August 2007 and Treasurer from November 2001 to August 2007. 
        Mr. Baldwin
has served as Chief Design and Construction Officer since August 2007. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Mirage Resorts from June 2000 to August 2007 and
President and Chief Executive Officer of Bellagio, LLC from June 1996 to March 2005. 
        Mr. Hornbuckle
has served as Chief Marketing Officer since August 2009. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Mandalay Bay Resort & Casino from April 2005
to August 2009. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of MGM MIRAGE—Europe from July 2001 to April 2005. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of MGM Grand Las
Vegas from October 1998 to July 2001. 
        Mr. Sanders
has served as Chief Operating Officer since September 2010. He served as Chief Operating Officer for the Company's Core Brand and Regional Properties from August 2009
to September 2010, as Executive Vice President—Operations from August 2007 to August 2009, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand Resorts from April 2005 to
August 2007 and served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for MGM Grand from August 1997 to April 2005. 
        Mr. D'Arrigo
has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2007 and Treasurer since September 2009. He served as Senior Vice
President—Finance of the Company from February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Finance of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005. 
        Ms. James
has served as Executive Vice President and Special Counsel—Litigation since July 2010 and as Chief Diversity Officer since 2009. She served as Senior Vice
President, Deputy General Counsel of the Company from March 2002 to July 2010. From 1994 to 2001 she served as Corporation (General) Counsel and Law Department Director for the City of Detroit. In
that capacity she also served on various public and quasi-public boards and commissions on behalf of the City, including the Election Commission, the Detroit Building Authority and the Board of
Ethics. 
13



 
        Mr. Manzini
has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since March 2007. Prior thereto, he served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Planning for
the Walt Disney Company and in various senior management positions throughout his tenure from April 1990 to January 2007. 
        Mr. McManus
has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Secretary of the
Company from December 2009 to July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from September 2009 to December 2009. He served as Senior Vice President,
Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the Company from July 2008 to September 2009. He served as Vice President and General Counsel for CityCenter's residential and retail divisions
from January 2006 to July 2008. Prior thereto, he served as General Counsel or Assistant General Counsel for various of the Company's operating subsidiaries from May 2001 to January 2006. 
        Mr. Nordling
has served as Executive Vice President of Operations since December 2011. He continues to serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for
CityCenter, a position he has held since September 2007. Mr. Nordling also served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mirage Resorts from 2005 to 2007. Prior to that,
Mr. Nordling served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Bellagio from 2000 to 2005. 
        Mr. Scott
has served as Executive Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Special Counsel since July 2010. He served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel
of the Company from August 2009 to July 2010. Previously, he was a partner in the Los Angeles office of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP, specializing in financing transactions,
having joined that firm in 1986. 
        Mr. Selwood
has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since August 2007. He served as Senior Vice President—Accounting of the Company from
February 2005 to August 2007 and as Vice President—Accounting of the Company from December 2000 to February 2005. 
        Mr. Arpin
has served as Senior Vice President—Corporate Controller of the Company since August 2009. He served as Vice President of Financial Accounting of the Company
from January 2007 to August 2009. He served as Assistant Vice President of Financial Reporting from January 2005 to January 2007, and as Director of Financial Reporting from May 2002 to January 2005. 
        Mr. Feldman
has served as Senior Vice President—Public Affairs of the Company since September 2001. He served as Vice President — Public Affairs of
the Company from June 2000 to September 2001. 
        Mr. Freeman
has served as Senior Vice President—Capital Markets and Strategy since March 2010. Previously, he was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of Fontainebleau
Resorts, having joined that company in 2006. Prior thereto, he held various investment banking positions with Banc of America Securities from 1998 to 2006. 
        Mr. Sani
has served as Senior Vice President—Taxes of the Company since July 2005. He served as Vice President—Taxes of the Company from June 2002 to July
2005. 
 Available Information  
        We maintain a website at www.mgmresorts.com that includes
financial and other information for investors. We provide access to our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q
(including related filings in XBRL format), filed and furnished current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports on our website, free of charge, through a link to the
SEC's EDGAR database. Through that link, our filings are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file the documents. 
        These
filings are also available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, the public may read and
copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, 
14



 
Washington,
D.C. 20549 and may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 
        Because
of the time differences between Hong Kong and the United States, we also use our corporate website as a means of posting important information about MGM China. 
        Reference
in this document to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 
15




 










 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS     
        You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this report or in any other of
our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or
that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial positions, results of operations or cash flows. In evaluating us, you should consider
carefully, among other things, the risks described below. 
 Risks Related to our Substantial Indebtedness  


•Our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could adversely affect our operations and financial
results and impact our ability to satisfy our obligations.  As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $13.6 billion
principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including $3.3 billion of borrowings outstanding under our senior credit facility. These amounts include the December 2011 borrowing of
$778 million under our senior credit facility to increase our capacity for issuing additional secured indebtedness; these borrowings were repaid shortly after year end. Giving effect to the
subsequent repayment, we would have had approximately $957 million of available borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility at December 31, 2011. We have no other existing
sources of borrowing availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or
future borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, MGM Grand
Paradise, S.A. ("MGM Grand Paradise"), the company that owns and operates MGM Macau, had approximately $552 million of debt outstanding under its term loan credit facility. We do not
guarantee MGM Grand Paradise's obligations under its credit agreement and, to the extent MGM Macau were to cease to produce cash flow sufficient to service its indebtedness, our ability to make
additional investments into that entity is limited by the negative covenants in our existing debt instruments. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" for discussion of our liquidity and financial position. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and significant financial commitments could have important negative consequences,
including:  


–increasing our exposure to general adverse economic and industry conditions;  –limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to,
changes in our business and industry;  –limiting our ability to borrow additional funds;  –making it more difficult for us
to make payments on our indebtedness; or  –placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors. 




Moreover,
our businesses are capital intensive. For our owned and managed resorts to remain attractive and competitive, we must periodically invest significant capital to keep the properties
well-maintained, modernized and refurbished. Such investment requires an ongoing supply of cash and, to the extent that we cannot fund expenditures from cash generated by operations, funds
must be borrowed or otherwise obtained. Similarly, future development projects and acquisitions could require significant capital commitments, the incurrence of additional debt, guarantees of
third-party debt, or the incurrence of contingent liabilities, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


•Current and future economic and credit market conditions could adversely affect our ability to service or refinance our
indebtedness and to make planned expenditures and investments.  Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and
to fund capital expenditures and other investments depends on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, our ability to receive distributions from joint ventures and our ability to borrow under
our senior credit facility. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could 

16



 


experience
decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the
financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, receive
distributions from joint ventures or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other
liquidity needs. 
We
have a significant amount of indebtedness maturing in 2013 and 2014 and thereafter. Our ability to timely refinance and replace such indebtedness will depend upon the foregoing as well as on
continued and sustained improvements in financial markets. Events over the past several years, including the failures and near failures of financial services companies and the decrease in liquidity
and available capital, have negatively affected the capital markets. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on a timely basis, we might be forced to seek alternate forms of financing, dispose
of certain assets or minimize capital expenditures or other investments. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms, on terms that
would not be disadvantageous to investors, or on terms that would not require us to breach the terms and conditions of our existing or future debt agreements.  


•The agreements governing our senior credit facility and other senior indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations
that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business, as well as significantly affect our liquidity, and therefore could adversely affect our results of
operations.  Covenants governing our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities restrict, among other things, our ability
to:  


–pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; –incur additional debt or issue
certain disqualified stock and preferred stock;  –incur liens on assets;  –pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another
company or sell all or substantially all assets; –enter into transactions with affiliates;  –
allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and  –enter into sale and lease-back transactions. 




Our
ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. The breach of any such covenants or obligations not otherwise waived or cured could result in a default under
the applicable debt obligations and could trigger acceleration of those obligations, which in turn could
trigger cross defaults under other agreements governing our long-term indebtedness. Any default under the senior credit facility or the indentures governing our other debt could adversely
affect our growth, our financial condition, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt, and could force us to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws. 
In
addition, MGM Grand Paradise's credit facility contains covenants that restrict its ability to engage in certain transactions. In particular, the MGM Grand Paradise credit facility requires MGM
Grand Paradise and certain of its subsidiaries to satisfy various financial covenants, including a maximum adjusted leverage ratio and minimum debt service ratio, and imposes certain operating and
financial restrictions on MGM Grand Paradise and its subsidiaries, including, among other things, limitations on its ability to pay dividends or distributions to us, incur additional debt, make
investments or engage in other businesses, merge or consolidate with other companies, or transfer or sell assets. 


 Risks Related to our Business  


•We face significant competition with respect to destination travel locations generally and with respect to our peers in
the industries in which we compete, and failure to effectively compete could materially  

17



 


 adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.  The hotel, resort and casino industries are
highly competitive. We do not believe that our competition is limited to a particular geographic area, and hotel, resort and gaming operations in other states or countries could attract our customers.
To the extent that new casinos enter our markets or hotel room capacity is expanded by others in major destination locations, competition will increase. Major competitors, including new entrants, have
either recently expanded their hotel room capacity or are currently expanding their capacity or constructing new resorts in Las Vegas and Macau. Also, the growth of gaming in areas outside Las Vegas,
including California, has increased the competition faced by our operations in Las Vegas and elsewhere. In particular, as large scale gaming
operations in Native American tribal lands has increased, particularly in California, competition has increased. 
In
addition, competition could increase if changes in gaming restrictions in the U.S. and elsewhere result in the addition of new gaming establishments located closer to our customers than our
casinos, such as has happened in California. For example, while our Macau operations compete to some extent with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, including Singapore, Australia and New Zealand,
certain countries in the region have legalized casino gaming (including Malaysia, Vietnam, and Cambodia) and others (such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand) may legalize casino gaming in the future.
Furthermore, currently MGM Grand Paradise holds one of only six gaming concessions authorized by the Macau government to operate casinos in Macau. If the Macau government were to allow additional
competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of additional concessions, we would face increased competition. In addition to competition with other hotels, resorts and casinos, we compete with
destination travel locations outside of the markets in which we operate. Our failure to compete successfully in our various markets and to continue to attract customers could adversely affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 


•We are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming businesses in China, Macau,
Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. In connection with the initial public offering of MGM China, the holding company that indirectly owns and operates MGM
Macau, we entered into a Deed of Non-Compete Undertakings with MGM China and Ms. Pansy Ho pursuant to which we are restricted from having any interest or involvement in gaming
businesses in the People's Republic of China, Macau, Hong Kong and Taiwan, other than through MGM China. While gaming is currently prohibited in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, if it is legalized in the
future our ability to compete with our competitors in these locations could be limited until the earlier of (i) March 31, 2020, (ii) the date MGM China's ordinary shares cease to
be listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited or (iii) or the date when our ownership of MGM China shares is less than 20% of the then issued share capital of MGM China.  
•Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of compliance or failure to comply
with such regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our ownership and operation of gaming facilities is subject to extensive regulation by the
countries, states and provinces in which we operate. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and
character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. As such, our gaming regulators can require us to disassociate
ourselves from suppliers or business partners found unsuitable by the regulators or, alternatively, cease operations in that jurisdiction. In addition, unsuitable activity on our part or on the part
of our domestic or foreign unconsolidated affiliates in any jurisdiction could have a negative effect on our ability to continue operating in other jurisdictions. The regulatory environment in any
particular jurisdiction may change in the future and any such change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to various gaming taxes, which are
subject to possible increase at any time by various state and federal legislatures and officials. Increases in gaming taxation could also adversely affect our results. For a summary of gaming and
other regulations that affect our business, see "Regulation and Licensing." 

18



 






Further,
our directors, officers, key employees and joint venture partners must meet approval standards of certain state and foreign regulatory authorities. If state regulatory authorities were to
find such a person or joint venture partner unsuitable, we would be required to sever our relationship with that person or the joint venture partner may be required to dispose of their interest in the
joint venture. State regulatory agencies may conduct investigations into the conduct or associations of our directors, officers, key employees or joint venture partners to ensure compliance with
applicable standards. For example, as a result of the New Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement (the "DGE") investigation of our relationship with our joint venture partner in Macau, we entered into a
settlement agreement with the DGE under which we were required to sell our 50% ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City. On August 8, 2011, the New Jersey Casino
Control Commission approved an amendment to the settlement agreement which extends the time within which the sale of the trust property must occur by 18 months, so that until March 24,
2013 we have the right to direct the trustee to sell the trust property, but, if the sale is not concluded by that date, the trustee will sell such interests within the following 12 months.
Certain public and private issuances of securities and other transactions also require the approval of certain regulatory authorities. 
In
Macau, current laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and regulations.
These laws and regulations are complex, and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue new or modified regulations,
that differ from MGM China's interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, MGM China's activities in Macau are
subject to administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that MGM China will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may materially affect its
long-term business strategy and operations. Macau laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming
issues. 
In
addition to gaming regulations, we are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations affecting businesses in general. These laws and regulations include, but are
not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, environmental matters, smoking, employees, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and
advertising. We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violations of
anti-money laundering laws or regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Such laws and regulations
could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. For example, Illinois has enacted a ban on smoking in nearly all public places, including
bars, restaurants, work
places, schools and casinos. The likelihood or outcome of similar legislation in other jurisdictions and referendums in the future cannot be predicted, though any smoking ban would be expected to
negatively impact our financial performance. 


•Our business is affected by economic and market conditions in the markets in which we operate and
in the locations in which our customers reside. Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending and corporate spending on conventions
and business development. Economic contraction, economic uncertainty or the perception by our customers of weak or weakening economic conditions may cause a decline in demand for hotels, casino
resorts, trade shows and conventions, and for the type of luxury amenities we offer. In addition, changes in discretionary consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as
the increased cost of travel, an unstable job market, perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth, or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas,
Mandalay Bay and The Mirage in particular may be affected by economic conditions in the Far 

19



 


East,
and all of our Nevada resorts are affected by economic conditions in the United States, and California in particular. A recession, economic slowdown or any other significant economic condition
affecting consumers or corporations generally is likely to cause a reduction in visitation to our resorts, which would adversely affect our operating results. For example, the recent recession and
downturn in consumer and corporate spending has had a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, the weak housing and real estate market—both generally and in Nevada
particularly—has negatively impacted CityCenter's ability to sell residential units. 
In
addition, since we expect a significant number of customers to come to MGM Macau from mainland China, general economic and market conditions in China could impact our financial prospects. Any
slowdown in economic growth or changes to China's current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to MGM Macau as well as the amounts
they are willing to spend in the casino. For example, in May and July 2008, China readjusted its visa policy toward Macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland Chinese citizens may make
to Macau in a given time period. In September 2008, it was publicly announced that mainland Chinese citizens with a Hong Kong visa (but not a Macau visa) could no longer enter Macau from Hong Kong. In
addition, in May 2009, China also began to restrict the operation of "below-cost" tour groups involving low up-front payments and compulsory shopping, which were popular among visitors to
Macau from mainland China. It is unclear whether these and other measures will continue to be in effect, or become more restrictive, in the future. These developments have had, and any future policy
developments that may be implemented may have, the effect of reducing the number
of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact tourism and the gaming industry in Macau.  


•The Macau government can terminate MGM Grand Paradise's subconcession under certain circumstances without compensating MGM
Grand Paradise, the Macau government can exercise its redemption right with respect to the subconcession in 2017 or the Macau government can refuse to grant MGM Grand Paradise an extension of the
subconsession in 2020, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.  The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the subconcession in the event of fundamental
non-compliance by MGM Grand Paradise with applicable Macau laws or MGM Grand Paradise's basic obligations under the subconcession contract. MGM Grand Paradise has the opportunity to remedy
any such non-compliance with its fundamental obligations under the subconcession contract within a period to be stipulated by the Macau Government. Upon such termination, all of MGM Grand
Paradise's casino area premises and gaming-related equipment would be transferred automatically to the Macau government without compensation to MGM Grand Paradise, and we would cease to generate any
revenues from these operations. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will perform all of its obligations under the subconcession contract in a way that satisfies the requirements of the Macau
Government. 



Furthermore,
under the subconcession contract, MGM Grand Paradise is obligated to comply with any laws and regulations that the Macau Government might promulgate in the future. We cannot assure you
that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to comply with these laws and regulations or that these laws and regulations would not adversely affect our ability to construct or operate our Macau businesses.
If any disagreement arises between MGM Grand Paradise and the Macau Government regarding the interpretation of, or MGM Grand Paradise's compliance with, a provision of the subconcession contract, MGM
Grand Paradise will be relying on a consultation and negotiation process with the Macau government. During any consultation or negotiation, MGM Grand Paradise will be obligated to comply with the
terms of the subconcession contract as interpreted by the Macau Government. Currently, there is no precedent concerning how the Macau Government will treat the termination of a concession or
subconcession upon the occurrence of any of the circumstances mentioned above. The loss of the subconcession would require us to cease 


20



 


conducting
gaming operations in Macau, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
In
addition, the subconcession contract expires on March 31, 2020. Unless the subconcession is extended, or legislation with regard to reversion of casino premises is amended, all of MGM Grand
Paradise's casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macau government on that date without compensation to us, and we will cease to generate any revenues
from such gaming operations. Beginning on April 20, 2017, the Macau government may redeem the subconcession contract by providing us at least one year's prior notice. In the event the Macau
government exercises this redemption right, MGM Grand Paradise is entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of
gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by MGM Grand Paradise, excluding the convention and exhibition facilities, during the taxable year prior to the redemption, before deducting
interest, depreciation and amortization, multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot assure you that MGM Grand Paradise will be able to renew or
extend the subconcession contract on terms favorable to MGM Grand Paradise or at all. We also cannot assure you that if the subconcession is redeemed, the compensation paid to MGM Grand Paradise will
be adequate to compensate for the loss of future revenues.  


•Extreme weather conditions or climate change may cause property damage or interrupt business, which could harm our
business and results of operations.  Certain of our casino properties are located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather
conditions, including, but not limited to, hurricanes in the United States and severe typhoons in Macau. Such extreme weather conditions may interrupt our operations, damage our properties, and reduce
the number of customers who visit our facilities in such areas. Although we maintain both property and business interruption insurance coverage for certain extreme weather conditions, such coverage is
subject to deductibles and limits on maximum benefits, including limitation on the coverage period for business interruption, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to fully insure such losses
or fully collect, if at all, on claims resulting from such extreme weather conditions. Furthermore, such extreme weather conditions may interrupt or impede access to our affected properties and may
cause visits to our affected properties to decrease for an indefinite period, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  
•Our business is particularly sensitive to energy prices and a rise in energy prices could harm our operating
results.  We are a large consumer of electricity and other energy and, therefore, higher energy prices may have an adverse effect on our
results of operations. Accordingly, increases in energy costs may have a negative impact on our operating results. Additionally, higher electricity and gasoline prices that affect our customers may
result in reduced visitation to our resorts and a reduction in our revenues.   
•Because our major gaming resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming
company that is more geographically diversified.  Given that our major resorts are concentrated on the Las Vegas Strip, our business may
be significantly affected by risks common to the Las Vegas tourism industry. For example, the cost and availability of air services and the impact of any events that disrupt air travel to and from Las
Vegas can adversely affect our business. We cannot control the number or frequency of flights to or from Las Vegas, but we rely on air traffic for a significant portion or our visitors. Reductions in
flights by major airlines as a result of higher fuel prices or lower demand can impact the number of visitors to our resorts. Additionally, there is one principal interstate highway between Las Vegas
and Southern California, where a large number of our customers reside. Capacity constraints of that highway or any other traffic disruptions may also affect the number of customers who visit our
facilities. 

21



 


•We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming
receivables.  We conduct a portion of our gaming activities on a credit basis through the issuance of markers which are unsecured
instruments. Table games players typically are issued more markers than slot players, and high-end players typically are issued more markers than patrons who tend to wager lower amounts.
High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or
negative impact on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter. We issue markers to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the opinion of management, an extension
of credit. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise extends credit to certain gaming promoters and those promoters can extend credit to their customers. Uncollectible receivables from high-end
customers and gaming promoters could have a significant impact on our results of operations. 

While
gaming debts evidenced by markers and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the
Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce
gaming debts directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment, judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign
nations. 
Furthermore,
we expect that MGM Macau will be able to enforce its gaming debts only in a limited number of jurisdictions, including Macau. To the extent MGM Macau gaming customers and gaming promoters
are from other jurisdictions, MGM Macau may not have access to a forum in which it will
be able to collect all of its gaming receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and MGM Macau may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce
such debts. Moreover, under applicable law, MGM Macau remains obligated to pay taxes on uncollectible winnings from customers. 
Even
where gaming debts are enforceable, they may not be collectible. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. 


•MGM Grand Paradise is dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of gaming revenues in
Macau.  Junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-end customers to casinos, are responsible for a significant
portion of MGM Grand Paradise's gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in Macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. While MGM Grand Paradise is
undertaking initiatives to strengthen relationships with junket operators, there can be no assurance that it will be able to maintain, or grow, relationships with junket operators. If MGM Grand
Paradise is unable to maintain or grow relationships with junket operators, or if junket operators are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-end customers, MGM Grand
Paradise's ability to grow gaming revenues will be hampered. 



In
addition, the quality of junket operators is important to MGM Grand Paradise's and our reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with gaming licenses. While MGM Grand Paradise
strives for excellence in associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom MGM Grand Paradise is associated will meet the high standards insisted upon. If a
junket operator falls below MGM Grand Paradise's standards, MGM Grand Paradise or we may suffer reputational harm or possibly sanctions from gaming regulators with authority over our operations. 


•Leisure and business travel, especially travel by air, are particularly susceptible to global geopolitical events, such as
terrorist attacks or acts of war or hostility.  We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel by air. Since most of our
customers travel by air to our Las Vegas and Macau properties, any terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities, escalation of war, or any actual or perceived 

22



 


threat
to the security of travel by air, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, although we have been able to purchase some insurance
coverage for certain types of terrorist acts, insurance coverage against loss or business interruption resulting from war and some forms of terrorism continues to be unavailable. 


•Investing through partnerships or joint ventures including CityCenter decreases our ability to manage
risk.  In addition to acquiring or developing hotels and resorts or acquiring companies that complement our business directly, we have
from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, the
operation of a joint venture is subject to inherent risk due to the shared nature of the enterprise and the need to reach agreements on material matters. In addition, joint venture investments may
involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business
interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives.
Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject hotels and resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our
joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we
could become liable for our partner's or co-venturer's share of joint venture liabilities. 



For
instance, CityCenter, which is 50% owned and managed by us, has a significant amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect its business and its ability to meet its obligations. If
CityCenter is unable to meet its financial commitments and we and our partners are unable to support future funding requirements, as necessary, such event could have adverse financial consequences to
us. In addition, the agreements governing the indebtedness subject CityCenter and its subsidiaries to significant financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on its ability to
incur additional indebtedness, place liens upon assets, make distributions to us, make certain investments, consummate certain asset sales, enter into transactions with affiliates (including us) and
merge or consolidate with any other person or sell, assign, transfer, lease, convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets. The CityCenter amended and restated credit facility
also requires CityCenter to meet an interest coverage ratio test commencing on September 30, 2012. We cannot be sure that CityCenter will be able to meet this test or that the lenders will
waive any failure to meet the test. 
In
addition, in accordance with our joint venture agreement and the CityCenter credit facility, we provided a cost overrun guarantee which is secured by our interests in the assets of Circus Circus
Las Vegas and certain adjacent undeveloped land.  


•Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could suffer. In addition, our
insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain similar insurance coverage in the future.  Although we have "all risk"
property insurance coverage for our operating properties, which covers damage caused by a casualty loss (such as fire, natural disasters, acts of war, or terrorism), each policy has certain
exclusions. In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our
level of insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty. In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, acts of war,
loss of income due to cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, may not be covered at all under our
policies. Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses. 

23



 






In
addition to the damage caused to our properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties that may be injured or
harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event. 
We
renew our insurance policies (other than our builder's risk insurance) on an annual basis. The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or agree to
certain exclusions from our coverage.  


•CityCenter has decided to abate the potential for structural collapse of the Harmon in the event of a
code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and we are exposed to risks prior to or in connection with the demolition
process.  After partial construction of the Harmon, CityCenter discovered that in certain elements of the building (known as link beams)
the reinforcing steel had been installed incorrectly by CityCenter's general contractor Perini Building Company ("Perini") and its subcontractors. After additional structural defects in other areas of
the Harmon were discovered, further construction at the Harmon was indefinitely stopped. During the third quarter of 2010, CityCenter determined that the Harmon was unlikely to be completed using the
existing partially completed structure as it now stands. A consulting engineer engaged by CityCenter in 2011 to conduct a review requested by the Clark County Building Division (the "Building
Division") opined, among other things, that "[i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical
structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete collapse of the tower. There is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in
columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor." In response to this opinion, the Building Division required CityCenter to provide a
plan of action to abate the potential for structural collapse of the Harmon. After expert consultation, we informed the Building Division that we have decided to abate the potential for structural
collapse of the Harmon by demolishing the building, subject to the receipt of court approval. A partial or complete collapse of the Harmon prior to demolition, or the demolition process itself, could
result in property damage or injury, which could have a material adverse effect on CityCenter's and our business and/or cause reputational harm to CityCenter and us. CityCenter's senior credit
facility provides that certain demolition expenses may be funded only by equity contributions from its members or certain specified extraordinary receipts (which include any proceeds from the Perini
litigation).   
•We face risks related to pending claims that have been, or future claims that may be, brought against
us.  Claims have been brought against us and our subsidiaries in various legal proceedings, and additional legal and tax claims arise
from time to time. We may not be successful in the defense or prosecution of our current or future legal proceedings, which could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our
business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see the further discussion "Legal Proceedings."   
•Tracinda owns a significant amount of our common stock and may have interests that differ from the interests of other
holders of our stock.  According to public filings, as of December 31, 2011, Tracinda Corporation beneficially owned approximately
23% of our outstanding common stock. Should Tracinda and its affiliates collectively cease to own more than 15% of our outstanding common stock, such an event will constitute a "change of control"
under the indentures governing certain of our outstanding secured notes. In that event, we would be required to offer to purchase those notes at 101% of the outstanding principal amount of those
notes. 

In
addition, Tracinda may be able to exercise significant influence over us as a result of its significant ownership of our outstanding common stock. As a result, actions requiring stockholder
approval that may be supported by other stockholders might be effectively blocked by Tracinda Corporation. 


24



 


•Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors of MGM China, the holding
company for MGM Grand Paradise which owns and operates MGM Macau.  As a result of the initial public offering of shares of MGM China
common stock, MGM China now has stockholders who are not affiliated with us, and we and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of MGM China may have
conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of MGM China. Decisions that could have different implications for us and MGM China, including contractual
arrangements that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with MGM China, may give rise to the appearance of a potential conflict of interest or an actual conflict of interest.  
•We are subject to risks associated with doing business outside of the United
States.  Our operations outside of the United States are subject to risks that are inherent in conducting business under
non-United States laws, regulations and customs. In particular, the risks associated with the operation of MGM Macau or any future operations in which we may engage in any other foreign
territories, include:  


–changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies in Macau;  –changes in non-United States government programs;
–possible failure to comply with anti-bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and
similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions;  –general economic conditions and policies in China, including restrictions on travel and currency movements; –difficulty in establishing, staffing and managing non-United States operations;  –different labor regulations;  –changes in environmental, health and safety laws;  –potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of tax laws;  
–political instability and actual or anticipated military and political conflicts;  –economic instability and inflation, recession
or interest rate fluctuations; and  –uncertainties regarding judicial systems and procedures. 




These
risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other countries, our United States dollar reported income from sources
where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease.  


•Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a negative impact on
us.  A significant portion of our revenue is derived from operations outside the United States, which exposes us to complex foreign and
U.S. regulations inherent in doing cross-border business and in each of the countries in which we transact business. We are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
("FCPA") and other similar anti-corruption laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose
of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from
violations of these laws, despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and
the SEC and U.S. Department of Justice have increased their enforcement activities with respect to the FCPA. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business,
performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. 

We
are also exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If the United States dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of other 


25



 


countries,
our United States dollar reported income from sources where revenue is dominated in the currencies of other such countries will decrease.  


•A significant portion of our labor force is covered by collective bargaining
agreements.  Work stoppages and other labor problems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Approximately 30,000
of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A prolonged dispute with the covered employees could have an adverse impact on our operations. In addition, wage and or benefit
increases resulting from new labor agreements may be significant and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations and to the extent that our non-union employees join
unions, we would have greater exposure to risks associated with labor problems. The collective bargaining agreements covering most of our Las Vegas union employees expire in 2013 but are subject to
renegotiation in 2012 under certain economic reopening clauses.   
•Failure to maintain the integrity of internal customer information could result in damage of reputation and/or subject us
to fines, payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data.  We collect information relating to our guests for
various business purposes, including marketing and promotional purposes. The collection and use of personal data are governed by privacy laws and regulations enacted in the United States and other
jurisdictions around the world. Privacy regulations continue to evolve and on occasion may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Compliance with applicable privacy regulations may increase
our operating costs and/or adversely impact our ability to market our products, properties and services to our guests. In addition, non-compliance with applicable privacy regulations by us
(or in some circumstances non-compliance by third parties engaged by us) or a breach of security on systems storing our data may result in damage of reputation and/or subject us to fines,
payment of damages, lawsuits or restrictions on our use or transfer of data.   
•We may incur impairments to goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, or long lived assets which could negatively
affect our future profits.  In accordance with the authoritative guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets, we test our goodwill
and indefinite-lived assets for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs. We perform annual testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of each
fiscal year based upon September 30 information. Significant negative trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth have
resulted in write-downs and impairment charges in the past and, if one or more of such events occurs in the future, additional impairment charges may be required in future periods. If we are required
to record additional impairment charges, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations.   
•Any failure to protect our trademarks could have a negative impact on the value of our brand names and adversely affect
our business.  The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy, and we regard our intellectual
property to be an important element of our success. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one trademark or combination of several of our trademarks or other intellectual
property, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations through the use of trademarks. We file applications for, and obtain trademarks in, the United States and
in foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe our trademarks and our rights may be
invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States. Monitoring the unauthorized use of our
intellectual property is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of
this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resource. We cannot assure you that all of the steps we have taken to protect our trademarks in the United States and foreign countries
will be adequate to prevent imitation of our trademarks by others. The unauthorized use or reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive
advantages or goodwill, which could adversely affect our business. 

26








 










 
    ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     
        None.  
 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES     
        Our principal executive offices are located at Bellagio. The following table lists our significant land holdings; unless otherwise
indicated, all properties are wholly-owned. We also own or lease various other improved and unimproved property in Las Vegas and other locations in the United States and certain foreign countries. 













Name and Location 
 
Approximate
Acres 
 
Notes 


 Las Vegas, Nevada operations:
 
 
 
 


 Bellagio
 
76
 
Two acres of the site are subject to two ground leases that expire (giving effect to our renewal options) in 2019 and 2073.


 MGM Grand Las Vegas
 
102
 
 


 Mandalay Bay
 
100
 
 


 The Mirage
 
84
 
 


 Luxor
 
60
 
 


 New York-New York
 
20
 
 


 Excalibur
 
53
 
 


 Monte Carlo
 
28
 
 


 Circus Circus Las Vegas
 
69
 
 


 Shadow Creek Golf Course
 
240
 
 


 Other Nevada operations:
 
 
 
 


 Circus Circus Reno
 
10
 
A portion of the site is subject to two ground leases, which expire in 2032 and 2033, respectively.


 Gold Strike, Jean, Nevada
 
51
 
 


 Railroad Pass, Henderson, Nevada
 
9
 
 


 Other domestic operations:
 
 
 
 


 MGM Grand Detroit
 
27
 
 


 Beau Rivage, Biloxi, Mississippi
 
41
 
Includes 10 acres of tidelands leased from the State of Mississippi under a lease that expires (giving effect to our renewal options) in 2066.


 Fallen Oak Golf Course,
 
 
 
 


 Saucier, Mississippi
 
508
 
 


 Gold Strike, Tunica, Mississippi
 
24
 
 


 Primm Valley Golf Club
 
448
 
Located at the California state line, four miles from Primm, Nevada.


 Other land:
 
 
 
 


 Support Services
 
12
 
Includes approximately 10 acres behind New York-New York and approximately two acres adjacent to New York- New York.


 Las Vegas Strip- south
 
20
 
Located immediately south of Mandalay Bay.


 
 
15
 
Located across the Las Vegas Strip from Luxor.


 Las Vegas Strip- north
 
34
 
Located north of Circus Circus.


 North Las Vegas, Nevada
 
66
 
Located adjacent to Shadow Creek.


 Henderson, Nevada
 
47
 
Located adjacent to Railroad Pass.


 Jean, Nevada
 
116
 
Located adjacent to, and across I-15 from, Gold Strike.


 Sloan, Nevada
 
89
 
 


 Stateline, California at Primm
 
125
 
Located adjacent to the Primm Valley Golf Club.


 Tunica, Mississippi
 
385
 
We own an undivided 50% interest in this land with another, unaffiliated, gaming company.


 Atlantic City, New Jersey
 
141
 
Approximately eight acres are leased to Borgata under a short-term lease. Of the remaining land, approximately 74 acres are suitable for development.




27



 
        The land underlying New York-New York, along with substantially all of the assets of that resort, serves as collateral for our 13%
senior secured notes due 2013. 
        The
land underlying Bellagio and The Mirage, along with substantially all of the assets of those resorts, serves as collateral for our 10.375% senior secured notes due 2014 and our
11.125% senior secured notes due 2017. Upon the issuance of such notes, the holders of our 13% senior secured notes due 2013 obtained an equal and ratable lien in all collateral securing these notes. 
        The
land underlying MGM Grand Las Vegas, along with substantially all of the assets of that resort, serves as collateral for our 9.00% senior secured notes due 2020 issued in 2010. Upon
the issuance of such notes, the holders of our 13% senior secured notes due 2013 obtained an equal and ratable lien in all collateral securing these notes. 
        The
land underlying Circus Circus Las Vegas, along with substantially all of the assets of that resort, as well as certain undeveloped land adjacent to the property, secures our
completion guarantee related to CityCenter. 
        The
land underlying MGM Grand Detroit, along with substantially all of the assets of that resort, serves as collateral to secure its $450 million obligation outstanding as a
co-borrower under our senior credit facility. 
        The
land underlying Gold Strike Tunica, along with substantially all of the assets of that resort and the 15 acres across from the Luxor, serve as collateral to secure up to
$300 million of obligations outstanding under our senior credit facility. 
        MGM
Macau occupies an approximately 10 acre site which it possesses under a 25-year land use right agreement with the Macau government. MGM Grand Paradise Limited's interest
in the land use right agreement is used as collateral for MGM Grand Paradise Limited's bank credit facility. As of December 31, 2011, approximately $552 million was outstanding under the
MGM Grand Paradise credit facility. These borrowings are non-recourse to MGM Resorts International. 

 Unconsolidated Affiliates  

        Silver Legacy occupies approximately five acres in Reno, Nevada, adjacent to Circus Circus Reno. The land, along with substantially all
of the assets of that resort, is used as collateral for Silver Legacy's 10.125% mortgage notes. As of December 31, 2011, $143 million of principal of the 10.125% mortgage notes due March
2012 were outstanding. 
        CityCenter
occupies approximately 67 acres of land between Bellagio and Monte Carlo. The site along with substantially all of the assets of that resort, serves as collateral for
CityCenter's bank credit facility, its $900 million 7.625% senior secured first lien notes, due 2016 and its $600 million 10.75%/11.50% senior secured second lien PIK toggle notes, due
2017. As of December 31, 2011, there was $375 million outstanding under the bank credit facility and $1.6 billion outstanding under the first and second lien notes. 
        All
of the borrowings by our unconsolidated affiliates described above are non-recourse to MGM Resorts International. 
        Other
than as described above, none of our other assets serve as collateral.  
 
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     
         CityCenter construction litigation. In March 2010, Perini Building Company, Inc. ("Perini"), general contractor for CityCenter, filed a
lawsuit in the Eighth Judicial District Court for Clark County, State of Nevada, against MGM MIRAGE Design Group (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company which was the 
28



 
original
party to the Perini construction agreement) and certain direct or indirect subsidiaries of CityCenter Holdings, LLC (the "CityCenter Owners"). Perini asserts that CityCenter was
substantially completed, but the defendants failed to pay Perini approximately $490 million allegedly due and owing under the construction agreement for labor, equipment and materials expended
on CityCenter. The complaint further charges the defendants with failure to provide timely and complete design documents, late delivery to Perini of design changes, mismanagement of the change order
process, obstruction of Perini's ability to complete the Harmon component, and fraudulent inducement of Perini to compromise significant amounts due for its general conditions. The complaint advances
claims for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, tortious breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust enrichment and promissory
estoppel, and fraud
and intentional misrepresentation. Perini seeks compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys' fees and costs. 
        In
April 2010, Perini served an amended complaint in this case which joins as defendants many owners of CityCenter residential condominium units (the "Condo Owner Defendants"), adds a
count for foreclosure of Perini's recorded master mechanic's lien against the CityCenter property in the amount of approximately $491 million, and asserts the priority of this mechanic's lien
over the interests of the CityCenter Owners, the Condo Owner Defendants and CityCenter lenders in the CityCenter property. 
        The
CityCenter Owners and the other defendants dispute Perini's allegations, and contend that the defendants are entitled to substantial amounts from Perini, including offsets against
amounts claimed to be owed to Perini and its subcontractors and damages based on breach of their contractual and other duties to CityCenter, duplicative payment requests, non-conforming
work, lack of proof of alleged work performance, defective work related to the Harmon, property damage and Perini's failure to perform its obligations to pay certain subcontractors and to prevent
filing of liens against CityCenter. Parallel to the court litigation, CityCenter management conducted an extra-judicial program for settlement of CityCenter subcontractor claims. CityCenter has
resolved the claims of 215 first-tier Perini subcontractors (including the claims of any lower-tier subcontractors that might have claims through those first-tier
subcontractors), with only seven remaining for further proceedings along with trial of Perini's claims and CityCenter's Harmon-related counterclaim and other claims by CityCenter against Perini and
its parent guarantor, Tutor Perini. Three of the remaining subcontractors are implicated in the defective work at the Harmon. In December 2010, Perini recorded an amended notice of lien reducing its
lien to approximately $313 million. Because of settlements with subcontractors, CityCenter believes it is entitled to a further lien reduction of approximately $133 million (for a
revised lien amount of $186 million, including certain liens not related to Perini's lien) once the Company has provided the court and Perini with the required information. 
        The
court has set a trial date of February 4, 2013 for the consolidated action involving Perini, the remaining Perini subcontractors and any related third parties. The CityCenter
Owners and the other defendants will continue to vigorously assert and protect their interests in the Perini lawsuit. The Company believes that a loss with respect to Perini's punitive damages claim
is neither probable nor reasonably possible. Please refer to Note 11 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion on the Company's completion guarantee
obligation which may be impacted by the outcome of the above litigation and the joint venture's extra-judicial settlement process. 
         Securities and derivative litigation. In 2009 various shareholders filed six lawsuits in Nevada federal and state court against the Company and
various of its former and current directors and officers alleging federal securities laws violations and/or related breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with statements allegedly made by the
defendants during the period August 2007 through the date of such lawsuit filings in 2009 (the "class period"). In general, the lawsuits assert the same or similar allegations, including that during
the relevant period defendants artificially inflated the Company's common stock price by knowingly making materially false and misleading statements and omissions to the investing public about the
Company's financial statements and condition, operations, CityCenter,
and the intrinsic value of the Company's common stock; that these alleged misstatements and omissions thereby enabled certain Company insiders to derive personal profit from the sale of Company common
stock to the public; that 
29



 
defendants
caused plaintiffs and other shareholders to purchase Company common stock at artificially inflated prices; and that defendants imprudently implemented a share repurchase program to the
detriment of the Company. The lawsuits seek unspecified compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement of alleged profits and/or attorneys' fees and costs in amounts to be proven at trial, as well
as injunctive relief related to corporate governance. 
        The
lawsuits are: 
        In re MGM MIRAGE Securities Litigation, Case No. 2:09-cv-01558-GMN-LRL. In November
2009, the U.S. District Court for Nevada consolidated the Robert Lowinger v. MGM MIRAGE, et al. (Case No. 2:09-cv-01558-RCL-LRL, filed
August 19, 2009) and Khachatur Hovhannisyan v. MGM MIRAGE, et al. (Case No. 2:09-cv-02011-LRH-RJJ, filed October 19, 2009) putative
class actions under the caption "In re MGM MIRAGE Securities Litigation." The cases name the Company and certain former and current directors and officers as defendants and allege violations of
Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. These cases were transferred in July 2010 to the Honorable Gloria M.
Navarro. In October 2010 the court appointed several employee retirement benefits funds as co-lead plaintiffs and their counsel as co-lead and co-liaison counsel.
In January 2011, lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint, alleging that between August 2, 2007 and March 5, 2009, the Company, its directors and certain of its officers
artificially inflated the market price of the Company's securities by knowingly making materially false and misleading public statements and omissions concerning the Company's financial condition, its
liquidity, its access to credit, and the costs and progress of construction of the CityCenter development. The consolidated amended complaint asserts violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
        On
March 15, 2011 all defendants moved to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint on the grounds that it fails to allege facts upon which relief could be granted under the
federal securities laws, and on the further ground that the complaint fails to satisfy the heightened pleading standards mandated by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act ("PSLRA"). The motions
to dismiss emphasize three primary arguments: 1) the complaint fails to allege that the defendants made false or misleading statements of fact, as opposed to statements concerning plans and
expectations that did not anticipate the severity of the financial crisis of 2008-2009 and the challenges presented by constructing CityCenter; 2) the complaint fails to allege
facts supporting a "strong inference" of
wrongful intent, as the PSLRA requires; and 3) the complaint fails to plead adequately that the alleged wrongdoing was the cause of the decline in the price of the Company's publicly traded
securities. The parties completed the briefing in support of, and in opposition to, the motions to dismiss, and requested oral argument on the motions. The motions to dismiss remain pending, without
scheduling of oral argument or ruling on the motions without oral argument to date. 
         Mario Guerrero v. James J. Murren, et al. (Case No. 2:09-cv-01815-KJD-RJJ, filed
September 14, 2009, U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada); Regina Shamberger v. J. Terrence Lanni, et
al. (Case No. 2:09-cv-01817-PMP-GWF, filed September 14, 2009, U.S. District Court for the District
of Nevada), filed September 14, 2009. These purported shareholder derivative actions involve the same former and current director and officer defendants as those in the consolidated state court
derivative actions, and also name the Company as a nominal defendant. They make factual allegations similar to those alleged in the state court actions, asserting claims of, among other things, breach
of fiduciary duty by defendants' asserted improper financial reporting, insider selling and misappropriation of information; waste of corporate assets; and unjust enrichment. In June 2010 plaintiffs
in these two actions made a joint motion for consolidation and appointment of lead plaintiffs and lead counsel. In March 2011, on stipulation of both plaintiffs and without opposition from the
defendants, the two actions were consolidated under the caption In re MGM MIRAGE Derivative Litigation. In March 2011, with the stipulation of all
parties, the court ordered that defendants need not respond to the complaints currently on file pending the disposition of the motions to dismiss in In re MGM MIRAGE Securities
Litigation, without prejudice to either side's right to seek to lift the stay at an earlier time. These cases remain pending before the court. 
30



 
         Charles Kim v. James J. Murren, et al. (Case No. A-09-599937-C, filed September 23, 2009,
Eighth Judicial District Court, Clark County, Nevada). This purported shareholder derivative action against certain of the Company's former and current directors and officers alleges, among other
things, breach of fiduciary duty by defendants' asserted dissemination of false and misleading statements to the public, failure to maintain internal controls, and failure to properly oversee and
manage the Company; unjust enrichment; abuse of control; gross mismanagement; and waste of corporate assets. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. This case remains pending before the court.
See below. 
         Sanjay Israni v. Robert H. Baldwin, et al. (Case No. CV-09-02914, filed
September 25, 2009, Second Judicial District Court, Washoe County, Nevada). This purported shareholder derivative action against certain of the Company's former and current directors and a
Company officer alleges, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty by defendants' asserted insider selling and misappropriation of information; abuse of control; gross mismanagement; waste of
corporate assets; unjust enrichment; and contribution and indemnification. The Company is named as a nominal defendant. In May 2010, plaintiffs amended the complaint to, among other things, allege as
additional bases for their claims defendants' approval of the Company's joint venture with Pansy Ho at MGM Macau. The Kim and Israni plaintiffs seek restitution to the Company in excess of
$10 million as well as equitable relief in the form of an order directing the Company to reform its corporate governance and internal procedures. In May 2010 the Second Judicial District Court
in Washoe County transferred this case to the Eighth Judicial District Court in Clark County, Nevada (Case No. A-10-619411-C), and in September 2010 the
latter court consolidated this action with the Charles Kim v. James J. Murren, et al. shareholder derivative action, Case
No. A-09-599937-C. 
        In
December 2010 and January 2011 the Company and its directors filed motions with the court to dismiss the derivative complaints in the  Israni and Kim cases.
The defendant Company officers also filed a separate motion to dismiss on the
grounds that plaintiffs failed to allege either that a pre-suit demand had been made on the Company's board of directors and had been wrongfully rejected, or that making such a demand
would have been futile because the case falls within the extremely rare circumstance where the board would have been legally incapable of exercising its business judgment on the litigation decision.
In March 2011, after the filing of these dismissal motions and pursuant to the parties' stipulation, the plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint that asserted claims similar to those in
their earlier complaints. In April 2011 the defendants filed motions to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint, on the same grounds as their original motions to dismiss. After hearing on the
motions to dismiss in June 2010, the court in July 2010 granted the motions on the ground that plaintiffs had failed to allege facts excusing them from making a pre-suit demand on the
Company's board of directors. The court directed that defendants submit a proposed order setting forth the factual and legal bases. The defendants submitted a proposed order, and the plaintiffs
submitted an objection to the proposed order. The court has not ruled to date on the proposed order and the objection thereto. These cases remain pending. 
        The
Company will continue to vigorously defend itself against the claims asserted in these securities and derivative cases. 
        Email Link Corp. v. Treasure Island, LLC; Wynn Resorts, Limited; Las Vegas Sands Corporation; Cosmopolitan Hotels & Resorts Inc.; MGM Resorts International; Caesars
Entertainment Corporation; Hard Rock Hotel Holdings, LLC; and Hilton Worldwide, Inc. United States District Court—District of Nevada, Case
No. 2:11-cv-1433. Filed September 7, 2011. Email Link, assignee of U.S. Patent No. 7,840,176 (Patent ‘176), alleges that all defendants are
infringing one or more claims of Patent ‘176 by transmitting email communications to customers, directly or through third parties, that contain links to data comprising website pages owned
and operated by the defendants, and providing portions of defendants' website pages that contain links to other data. Plaintiff further alleges that defendants are indirectly infringing the subject
patent by inducing their customers to use defendants' provided links to respond to defendants' emails, which plaintiff contends constitutes customer infringement of this
patent. The complaint seeks unspecified patent royalties consisting of a percentage of defendants' revenues earned 
31



 
by
use of the asserted patent infringement for the period of the patent, treble damages for the period of asserted willful infringement, pre- and post-judgment interest and
reasonable attorneys' fees and costs. 
        The
Company challenges the validity of the allegations in this complaint. In November 2011 the Company and several other defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint on grounds
including that the subject ‘176 Patent is unenforceable, and the complaint fails to state plausible claims for induced infringement, contributory infringement or direct infringement.
Plaintiff has moved to file an amended complaint in the case. To date all of these motions remain pending before the court. The Company will continue to vigorously defend itself against plaintiff's
claims. 

 Other  

        We and our subsidiaries are also defendants in various other lawsuits, most of which relate to routine matters incidental to our
business. We do not believe that the outcome of such pending litigation, considered in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Company.  
 
    ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES     
        Not applicable. 
 
 
  PART II     
 
    ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
 Common Stock Information  
        Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "MGM." The following table sets forth, for the calendar
quarters indicated, the high and low sale prices of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape. 






















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
High 
 
Low 
 
High 
 
Low 
 


 First quarter
 
$
16.94
 
$
12.15
 
$
12.87
 
$
9.31
 


 Second quarter
 
 
15.80
 
 
11.78
 
 
16.66
 
 
9.59
 


 Third quarter
 
 
16.05
 
 
9.01
 
 
11.56
 
 
8.92
 


 Fourth quarter
 
 
12.41
 
 
7.40
 
 
15.10
 
 
10.70
 




        There were approximately 4,483 record holders of our common stock as of February 20, 2012. 
        We
have not paid dividends on our common stock in the last two fiscal years. As a holding company with no independent operations, our ability to pay dividends will depend upon the
receipt of dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries. Furthermore, our senior credit facility contains financial covenants that could restrict our ability to pay dividends and our senior
credit facility and secured notes indentures contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends, subject to certain exceptions. Our Board of Directors periodically reviews our
policy with respect to dividends, and any determination to pay dividends in the future will depend on our financial position, future capital requirements and financial debt covenants and any other
factors deemed necessary by the Board of Directors. Moreover, should we pay any dividends in the future, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay such dividends. 
 Share Repurchases  
        Our share repurchases are only conducted under repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors and publicly announced. We did
not repurchase shares of our common stock during the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. The maximum number of shares available for repurchase under our May 2008 repurchase program was
20 million as of December 31, 2011. 
32




 










 
    ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     
        The following reflects selected historical financial data that should be read in conjunction with "Item 7 –
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. The historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations to be expected in the future. 

























 
 
For the Years Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 
 
(In thousands, except per share data)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
7,849,312
 
$
6,056,001
 
$
6,010,588
 
$
7,231,273
 
$
7,714,650
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
4,057,146
 
 
(1,158,931
)
 
(963,876
)
 
(195,986
)
 
2,863,930
 


 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
3,234,944
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)
 
(921,669
)
 
1,400,545
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
3,234,944
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)
 
(921,669
)
 
1,584,419
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
 
3,114,637
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)
 
(921,669
)
 
1,584,419
 


 Earnings per share of common stock attributable to MGM Resorts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from continuing operations
 
$
6.37
 
$
(3.19
)
$
(3.41
)
$
(3.29
)
$
4.88
 


 Net income (loss) per share
 
$
6.37
 
$
(3.19
)
$
(3.41
)
$
(3.29
)
$
5.52
 


 Weighted average number of shares
 
 
488,652
 
 
450,449
 
 
378,513
 
 
279,815
 
 
286,809
 


 Diluted
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from continuing operations
 
$
5.62
 
$
(3.19
)
$
(3.41
)
$
(3.29
)
$
4.70
 


 Net income (loss) per share
 
$
5.62
 
$
(3.19
)
$
(3.41
)
$
(3.29
)
$
5.31
 


 Weighted average number of shares
 
 
560,895
 
 
450,449
 
 
378,513
 
 
279,815
 
 
298,284
 


 At year-end:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
27,766,276
 
$
18,951,848
 
$
22,509,013
 
$
23,265,519
 
$
22,784,872
 


 Total debt, including capital leases
 
 
13,472,263
 
 
12,050,437
 
 
14,060,270
 
 
13,470,618
 
 
11,182,003
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
9,882,222
 
 
2,932,162
 
 
3,804,049
 
 
3,907,978
 
 
6,060,703
 


 MGM Resorts stockholders' equity
 
 
6,086,578
 
 
2,932,162
 
 
3,804,049
 
 
3,907,978
 
 
6,060,703
 


 MGM Resorts Stockholders' equity per share
 
$
12.45
 
$
6.00
 
$
8.62
 
$
14.13
 
$
20.63
 


 Number of shares outstanding
 
 
488,835
 
 
488,513
 
 
441,222
 
 
276,507
 
 
293,769
 




        The selected financial data above includes restatements to certain balance sheet and income statement accounts for errors related to deferred tax
liabilities in our financial statements for years prior to 2009. See Note 2 in the accompanying financial statements for additional information related to these restatements. In addition,
pursuant to the guidance in the recently issued AICPA Audit and Accounting
Guide, "Gaming," we have also reclassified certain amounts paid under slot participation agreements from a reduction in casino revenue to casino expense. 
        The
following events/transactions affect the year-to-year comparability of the selected financial data presented above: 
Acquisitions
and Dispositions 

•In 2007, we sold the Primm Valley Resorts.  •In 2007, we sold the Colorado Belle and Edgewater resorts in Laughlin, Nevada (the
"Laughlin Properties"). •In 2007, we recognized a $1.03 billion pre-tax gain on the contribution of CityCenter to a joint
venture.  •In 2009, we sold the Treasure Island casino resort ("TI") in Las Vegas, Nevada and recorded a gain on the sale of
$187 million. 
33



 

•In 2011, we acquired an additional 1% of the overall capital stock in MGM China (and obtained a controlling interest) and
thereby became the indirect owner of 51% of MGM China. We recorded a gain of $3.5 billion on the transaction. 
        The
results of the Primm Valley Resorts and the Laughlin Properties are classified as discontinued operations for all applicable periods presented, including the gain on sales of such
assets. The results of TI are not recorded as discontinued operations, as we believe significant customer migration occurred between TI and our other Las Vegas Strip resorts. As a result of our
acquisition of the additional 1% share of MGM China, we began consolidating the results of MGM China on June 3, 2011 and ceased recording the results of MGM Macau as an equity method
investment. 
Other 

•During 2007, we recognized $93 million related to our share of profits from the sale of condominium units at The
Signature at MGM Grand.  •During 2007, we recognized $284 million of pre-tax income for insurance recoveries related to Hurricane
Katrina.  •In 2008, we recorded a $1.2 billion non-cash impairment charge related to goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets recognized in the Mandalay acquisition.  •In 2009, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $176 million related to our M Resort note,
$956 million related to our investment in CityCenter, $203 million related to our share of the CityCenter residential impairment, and $548 million related to our land holdings on
Renaissance Pointe in Atlantic City and capitalized development costs related to our MGM Grand Atlantic City Project.  •In 2010, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of
$1.3 billion related to our investment in
CityCenter, $166 million related to our share of the CityCenter residential real estate impairment, and $128 million related to our Borgata investment.  •In 2010, we recorded a
$142 million net gain on extinguishment of debt in connection with our 2010 senior credit
facility amendment and restatement.  •In 2011, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $26 million related to our share of the CityCenter
residential real estate impairment, $80 million related to Circus Circus Reno, $23 million related to our investment in Silver Legacy and $62 million related to our investment in
Borgata. 
34




 










 
    ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     
 Executive Overview  

 Current Operations  

        Our primary business is the ownership and operation of casino resorts, which includes offering gaming, hotel, convention, dining,
entertainment, retail and other resort amenities. We believe that we own and invest in several of the premier casino resorts in the world and have continually reinvested in our resorts to maintain our
competitive advantage. Most of our revenue is cash-based, through customers wagering with cash or paying for non-gaming services with cash or credit cards. We rely heavily on
the ability of our resorts to generate operating cash flow to repay debt financing, fund maintenance capital expenditures and provide cash for future development. Our results of operations are
affected by decisions we make related to our capital allocation, our access to capital, and our cost of capital – all of which were affected by the recent economic recession and
credit crisis leading to constraints on investments and higher costs of capital. However, our access to lower cost capital has improved, and over the next few years we remain committed to further
deleveraging our balance sheet and improving our credit profile. 
        Our
results of operations do not tend to be seasonal in nature, though a variety of factors may affect the results of any interim period, including the timing of major Las Vegas
conventions, the amount and timing of marketing and special events for our high-end customers, and the level of play during major holidays, including New Year and Chinese New Year. Our
results do not depend on key individual customers, although our success in marketing to customer groups, such as convention customers, or the financial health of customer segments, such as business
travelers or high-end gaming customers from a particular country or region, can affect our results. Certain of our resorts earn significant revenues from the high-end gaming
business, which lead to variability in our results. 
        We
have two reportable segments that are based on the regions in which we operate: wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. We currently operate 15 wholly owned resorts in the United
States. MGM China's operations consist of the MGM Macau resort and casino. We have additional business activities including our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, our MGM Hospitality
operations, and certain other corporate and management operations. CityCenter is our most significant unconsolidated affiliate, which we also manage for a fee. Our operations which have not been
segregated into separate reportable segments are reported as "corporate and other" operations in our reconciliations of segment results to consolidated results. 
        Wholly Owned Domestic Resorts. At December 31, 2011, our wholly owned domestic resorts consisted of the following casino resorts: 












 
Las Vegas, Nevada:
 
Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas (including The Signature), Mandalay Bay, The Mirage, Luxor, New York-New York, Excalibur, Monte Carlo and Circus Circus Las Vegas.


 
 Other:
 
MGM Grand Detroit in Detroit, Michigan; Beau Rivage in Biloxi, Mississippi; Gold Strike Tunica in Tunica, Mississippi; Circus Circus Reno in Reno, Nevada; Gold Strike in Jean, Nevada; and Railroad Pass in Henderson,
Nevada.




        We also own the Shadow Creek golf course in North Las Vegas, Fallen Oak golf course in Saucier, Mississippi, and the Primm Valley Golf Club
(currently operated by a third party) at the California state line. 
35



 
        Over
half of the net revenue from our wholly owned domestic resorts is derived from non-gaming activities, including hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and other
non-gaming amenities. Our significant convention and meeting facilities allow us to maximize hotel occupancy and customer volumes during off-peak times such as
mid-week or during traditionally slower leisure travel periods, which also leads to better labor utilization. Our operating results are highly dependent on the volume of customers at our
resorts, which in turn affects the price we can charge for our hotel rooms and other amenities. We market to different customer segments to manage our hotel occupancy, such as targeting large
conventions to increase mid-week occupancy. 
        We
generate a significant portion of our revenue from our wholly owned domestic resorts in Las Vegas, Nevada, which exposes us to certain risks, such as increased competition from new or
expanded Las Vegas resorts, and from the expansion of gaming in California. 
        We
have experienced a recovery in our wholly owned domestic operations during 2011. While adverse conditions in the economic environment have affected our operating results in recent
years, we believe positive trends, such as increased visitation and consumer spending, will continue in 2012. However, we continue to believe that certain aspects of the current economy, such as
weaknesses in employment and the housing market, will limit economic growth in the U.S. and temper our recovery. Because of these economic conditions, we have increasingly focused on managing costs
and staffing levels across all our resorts and will continue to strive to achieve additional operating efficiencies. However, as a result of our leveraged business model, our operating results are
significantly affected by our ability to generate operating revenues. 
        Key
performance indicators related to gaming and hotel revenue at our wholly owned domestic resorts are:


•Gaming revenue indicators: table games drop and slots handle (volume indicators); "win" or "hold" percentage, which is not
fully controllable by us. Our normal table games hold percentage is in the range of 19% to 23% of table games drop and our normal slots hold percentage is in the range of 7.5% to 8.5% of slots handle; •Hotel revenue indicators: hotel occupancy (a volume indicator); average daily rate ("ADR," a price indicator); and revenue
per available room ("REVPAR," a summary measure of hotel results, combining ADR and occupancy rate). 

         MGM China. On June 3, 2011, we and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King ("Ms. Pansy Ho") completed a reorganization of the capital
structure and the initial public offering of 760 million shares of MGM China Limited ("MGM China") on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the "IPO"), representing 20% of the post issuance
base capital stock of MGM China, at an offer price of HKD 15.34 per share. Pursuant to this reorganization, we acquired, through a wholly owned subsidiary, an additional 1% of the overall
capital stock of MGM China for HKD 15.34 per share, or approximately $75 million, and thereby became the owner of 51% of MGM China, which owns MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. ("MGM Grand
Paradise"), the Macau company that owns the MGM Macau resort and casino and the related gaming subconcession and land concession. 
        Through
the acquisition of the additional 1% interest of MGM China, we obtained a controlling interest and were required to consolidate MGM China as of June 3, 2011. Prior to the
IPO, we held a 50% interest in MGM Grand Paradise, which was accounted for under the equity method. The acquisition of the controlling financial interest was accounted for as a business combination
and we recognized 100% of the assets, liabilities, and noncontrolling interests of MGM China at fair value at the date of acquisition. The fair value of the equity of MGM China was determined by the
IPO transaction price and equaled approximately $7.5 billion. The carrying value of our equity method
investment was significantly less than our share of the fair value of MGM China, resulting in a $3.5 billion gain on the acquisition. 
36



 
        We
believe our investment in MGM China plays an important role in extending our reach internationally and will foster future growth and profitability. Asia is the fastest-growing gaming
market in the world and Macau is the world's largest gaming destination in terms of revenue, and has continued to grow over the past few years despite the global economic downturn. 
        Our
MGM China operations relate to MGM Macau resort and casino. Revenues at MGM Macau are generated primarily from gaming operations made up of two distinct market segments: main floor
and high-end ("VIP"). MGM Macau main floor operations consist of both table games and slot machines offered to the public, which usually consists of walk-in and day trip
visitors. VIP players play mostly in dedicated VIP rooms or designated gaming areas. VIP customers can be further divided into customers sourced by in-house VIP programs and those sourced
through gaming promoters. A significant portion of our VIP volume is generated through the use of gaming promoters, also known as junket operators. These operators introduce high-end
gaming players to MGM Macau, assist these customers with travel arrangements, and extend gaming credit to these players. 
        VIP
gaming at MGM Macau is conducted by the use of special purpose nonnegotiable gaming chips called "rolling chips." Gaming promoters purchase these rolling chips from MGM Macau and in
turn they sell these chips to their players. The rolling chips allow MGM Macau to track the amount of wagering conducted by each gaming promoters' clients in order to determine VIP gaming play. In
exchange for the gaming promoters' services, MGM Macau pays them either through rolling chip turnover-based commissions or through revenue-sharing arrangements. The estimated portion of the gaming
promoter payments that represent amounts passed through to VIP customers is recorded net against casino revenue, and the estimated portion retained by the gaming promoter for its compensation is
recorded to casino expense. 
        In
addition to the key performance indicators used by our wholly owned domestic resorts, MGM Macau utilizes "turnover" which is the sum of rolling chip wagers won by MGM Macau (rolling
chips purchased plus rolling chips exchanged less rolling chips returned). Turnover provides a basis for measuring VIP casino win percentage. Normal win for VIP gaming operations at MGM Macau is in
the range of 2.7% to 3.0% of turnover. MGM Macau's main floor historical table games hold percentage is in the range of 20% to 26% of table games drop. Normal slots hold percentage at MGM Macau is in
the range of 5.5% to 7.5% of slots handle. 
         Corporate and other. Corporate and other includes our investments in unconsolidated affiliates, MGM Hospitality and certain management and other
operations. 
         CityCenter. We own 50% of CityCenter. The other 50% of CityCenter is owned by Infinity World Development Corp ("Infinity World"), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Dubai World, a Dubai, United Arab Emirates government decree entity. CityCenter consists of Aria, a 4,004-room casino resort; Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas, a
392-room non-gaming boutique hotel; Crystals, a retail district with approximately 329,000 leasable square feet; and Vdara, a 1,495-room luxury condominium-hotel.
In addition, CityCenter features residential units in the Residences at Mandarin Oriental – 225 units and Veer – 669 units. Aria, Vdara, Mandarin Oriental and
Crystals all opened in December 2009 and the sales of residential units within CityCenter began closing in early 2010. We receive a management fee of 2% of revenues for the management of Aria and
Vdara, and 5% of EBITDA (as defined in the agreements governing our management of Aria and Vdara). In addition, we receive an annual fee of $3 million for the management of Crystals. 
         Other unconsolidated affiliates. We also own 50% interests in Grand Victoria and Silver Legacy. Grand Victoria is a riverboat casino in Elgin,
Illinois; an affiliate of Hyatt Gaming owns the other 50% of Grand Victoria and also operates the resort. Silver Legacy is located in Reno, adjacent to Circus Circus Reno, and the other 50% is owned
by Eldorado LLC. See "Operating Results – Details of Certain Charges." 
37



 
         MGM Hospitality. MGM Hospitality seeks to leverage our management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and
international expansion opportunities. We have entered into management agreements for hotels in the Middle East, North Africa, India and, through its joint venture with Diaoyutai State Guesthouse, The
People's Republic of China. MGM Hospitality opened its first resort, MGM Grand Sanya on Hainan Island, People's Republic of China in early 2012. 
         Borgata. We have a 50% economic interest in Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa ("Borgata") located on Renaissance Pointe in the Marina area of
Atlantic City, New Jersey. Boyd Gaming Corporation ("Boyd") owns the other 50% of Borgata and also operates the resort. Our interest is held in trust and currently offered for sale pursuant to our
settlement agreement with New Jersey Department of Gaming Enforcement ("DGE"). In March 2010, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission ("CCC") approved the settlement agreement with the DGE pursuant
to which we placed our 50% ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City into a divestiture trust. The settlement agreement was amended on July 22, 2011 with the
approval of the CCC on August 8, 2011. Following the transfer of these interests into trust, we ceased to be regulated by the CCC or the DGE, except as otherwise provided by the trust agreement
and the settlement agreement. 
        The
terms of the settlement agreement, as amended, mandate the sale of the trust property by March 2014, which represents an 18-month extension compared to the original
agreement. During the period ending in March 2013, which also represents an 18-month extension compared to the original agreement, we have the right to direct the trustee to sell the trust
property, subject to approval of the CCC. If a sale is not concluded by that time, the trustee is responsible for selling the trust property during the following 12-month period. Prior to
the consummation of the sale, the divestiture trust will retain any cash flows received in respect of the trust property, but will pay property taxes and other costs attributable to the trust
property. We are the sole economic beneficiary of the trust and will be permitted to reapply for a New Jersey gaming license beginning 30 months after the completion of the sale of the trust
assets. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the trust had $188 million of cash and investments, of which $150 million is held in U.S. treasury securities with maturities greater
than three months but less than one year, and is recorded within "Prepaid expenses and other." 
        As
a result of our ownership interest in Borgata being placed into a trust, we no longer have significant influence over Borgata; therefore, we discontinued the equity method of
accounting for Borgata at the point the assets were placed in the trust in March 2010, and account for our investment in Borgata under the cost method of accounting. The carrying value of the
investment related to Borgata is included in "Other long-term assets, net." Earnings and losses that relate to the investment that were previously accrued remain as a part of the carrying
amount of the investment. Distributions received by the trust that do not exceed our share of earnings are recognized currently in earnings. However, distributions received by the trust that exceed
our share of earnings for such periods are applied to reduce the carrying amount of its investment. We consolidate the trust as we are the sole economic beneficiary. The trust did not receive
distributions from Borgata during the year ended December 31, 2011. The trust received net distributions from the joint venture of $113 million for the year ended December 31,
2010. We recorded $94 million as a reduction of the carrying value and $19 million was recorded as "Other, net" non-operating income for the year ended December 31,
2010. 
        In
connection with the settlement agreement discussed above, we entered into an amendment to our joint venture agreement with Boyd to permit the transfer of our 50% ownership interest
into trust in connection with our settlement agreement with the DGE. In accordance with such agreement, Boyd received a priority partnership distribution of approximately $31 million (equal to
the excess prior capital contributions by Boyd) upon successful refinancing of the Borgata credit facility in August 2010. 
        We
recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $128 million at September 30, 2010 which decreased the carrying value of our investment in Borgata to
approximately $250 million. The impairment charge was based on an offer received from a potential buyer at that time and authorized by our Board of 
38



 
Directors.
We ultimately did not reach final agreement with such buyer. We continue to negotiate with other parties who have expressed interest in the asset, but can provide no assurance that a
transaction will be completed. 
        We
reviewed the carrying value of our 50% interest in Borgata as of December 31, 2011 and determined that it was necessary to record an
other-than-temporary impairment charge of $62 million in "Property transactions, net," based on an estimated fair value of $185 million for our 50% interest.
Management used a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the estimated fair value from a market participant's point of view. Key assumptions included in such analysis include management's
estimates of future cash flows, including outflows for capital expenditures, an appropriate discount rate, and long-term growth rate. There is significant uncertainty surrounding Borgata's
future operating results, primarily due to the planned opening of a major new resort in the Atlantic City market during 2012 and other additional competition expected in surrounding markets. As a
result, for purposes of this analysis management has reflected a decrease in forecasted cash flows in 2012 and 2013. Also, management used a long-term growth rate of 3% and a discount rate
of 10.5%, which it believes appropriately reflects risk associated with the estimated cash flows. This analysis is sensitive to management assumptions, and increases or decreases in these assumptions
would have a material impact on the analysis. 
        In
July 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell four long-term ground leases and their respective underlying real property parcels, approximately 11 acres, underlying the
Borgata. The transaction closed in November 2010; the trust received net proceeds of $71 million and we recorded a gain of $3 million related to the sale in "Property transactions, net." 

 Liquidity and Financial Position  

        As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $13.6 billion principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, including
$3.3 billion of borrowings under our senior credit facility, which included $778 million borrowed in December 2011, to increase our capacity for issuing additional secured indebtedness.
Giving effect to the subsequent repayment of these amounts, we would have had
approximately $957 million of available borrowing capacity under our senior credit facility at December 31, 2011. Any increase in the interest rates applicable to our existing or future
borrowings would increase the cost of our indebtedness and reduce the cash flow available to fund our other liquidity needs. At December 31, 2011 we had no other existing sources of borrowing
availability, except to the extent we pay down further amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility. 
        In
January 2012, we issued $850 million of 8.625% senior notes due 2019, for net proceeds to us of approximately $836 million. The notes are unsecured and otherwise rank
equally in right of payment with our existing and future senior indebtedness. 
        Our
senior credit facility was amended and restated in February 2012, and consists of approximately $1.8 billion in term loans and a $1.3 billion revolver. Under the
restated senior credit facility, loans and revolving commitments aggregating approximately $1.8 billion (the "extending loans") were extended to February 2015. The extending loans are subject
to a pricing grid that decreases the LIBOR spread by as much as 250 basis points based upon collateral coverage levels at any given time (commencing 45 days after the restatement effective
date) and the LIBOR floor on extended loans is reduced from 200 basis points to 100 basis points. 
        The
restated senior credit facility allows us to refinance indebtedness maturing prior to February 23, 2015 but limits our ability to prepay later maturing indebtedness until the
extended facilities are paid in full. We may issue unsecured debt, equity-linked and equity securities to refinance our outstanding indebtedness; however, we are required to use net proceeds from
certain indebtedness issued in amounts in excess of $250 million (excluding amounts used to refinance indebtedness) to ratably prepay the credit facilities in an amount equal to 50% of the net
cash proceeds of such excess. Under the restated senior credit facility we are no longer required to use net proceeds from equity offerings to prepay the restated 
39



 
senior
credit facility. In connection with the restated senior credit facility we agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver a mortgage, limited in amount to comply with indenture
restrictions, encumbering the Beau Rivage within 90 days from the effective date of the restated loan agreement. Upon the issuance of such mortgage, the holders of our 13% senior secured notes
due 2013 would obtain an equal and ratable lien in the collateral. 
        Under
the amended senior credit facility, we and our restricted subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum trailing annual EBITDA (as defined in the agreement governing our senior
credit facility) of $1.2 billion for each of the quarters of 2012, increasing to $1.25 billion at March 31, 2013, to $1.3 billion at June 30, 2013, and to
$1.4 billion at March 31, 2014. Capital expenditure limits previously in place under the senior credit facility did not change in the restated loan agreement. 
         MGM China. As of December 31, 2011, MGM Grand Paradise, had cash of approximately $720 million and approximately $552 million of
debt outstanding under its term loan credit facility, which is secured by the assets of MGM Macau. We do not guarantee MGM Grand Paradise's obligations under its credit agreement. In February 2012,
MGM China's Board of Directors declared a dividend of approximately $400 million which will be paid to shareholders of record as of March 9, 2012, and distributed on or about
March 20, 2012. We will receive approximately $204 million, representing 51% of such dividend. 
        "Principal
Debt Arrangements" for further discussion of our debt agreements and related covenants. 
 Results of Operations  
        The following discussion is based on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Certain results in this section are discussed on a "same store" basis excluding the results of TI, which was sold in March 2009. 
        The
following table summarizes our financial results: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
7,849,312
 
$
6,056,001
 
$
6,010,588
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
4,057,146
 
 
(1,158,931
)
 
(963,876
)


 Net income (loss)
 
 
3,234,944
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)


 Net income (loss) attributable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 MGM Resorts International
 
 
3,114,637
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)




        Our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the results of MGM China from June 3, 2011 on a consolidated
basis. Prior thereto, results of operations of MGM China were reflected under the equity method of accounting – see "Operating Results – Income (Loss) from
Unconsolidated Affiliates." Net revenues and operating income related to MGM China from June 3, 2011 through December 31, 2011 were $1.5 billion and $137 million,
respectively. In addition, we recorded a $3.5 billion gain related to the MGM China transaction in 2011. 
        Operating
income in 2011 benefited from improved results at each of MGM Macau, CityCenter and our wholly owned domestic resorts compared to 2010. Comparability between periods was
affected by
$179 million of property transactions in 2011 and $1.5 billion of property transactions in 2010. In addition, operating income was affected by the $3.5 billion MGM China gain and
our share of CityCenter residential impairment charges of $26 million in 2011 and $166 million in 2010. For additional detail related to property transactions and residential impairment
charges, see "Operating Results– Income (Loss) from Unconsolidated Affiliates" and "Operating Results– Detail of Certain Charges." 
40



 
        Operating
loss in 2010 increased 20% from 2009 and was negatively affected by recessionary trends that extended into 2010. In addition, operating loss was affected by $1.5 billion
of property transactions, $166 million of residential impairment charges in 2010, and $1.3 billion of property transactions and $203 million of CityCenter residential inventory
impairment charges in 2009. 
        Corporate
expense increased 41% to $175 million in 2011 as a result of costs associated with our MGM China transaction, transition expenses related to the outsourcing of
information systems, additional legal and development costs associated with future development initiatives, costs associated with the implementation of our new loyalty program and additional costs
associated with community involvement. Corporate expense decreased 14% in 2010 primarily as a result of higher 2009 legal and advisory costs associated with our activities to improve our financial
position. 
        Depreciation
and amortization in 2011 increased from 2010 primarily as a result of the consolidation of MGM China. Of the $221 million of depreciation expense at MGM China,
$181 million related to amortization of intangible assets recognized in acquisition. Depreciation and amortization expense in 2010 decreased 8% due to certain assets being fully depreciated. 

 Operating Results – Detailed Segment Information  

        The following table presents net revenue and Adjusted EBITDA by reportable segment. Management uses Adjusted Property EBITDA as the
primary profit measure for its reportable segments. See "Non-GAAP Measures" for additional Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Property EBITDA information: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
$
5,892,902
 
$
5,634,350
 
$
5,875,090
 


 MGM China
 
 
1,534,963
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reportable segment net revenue
 
 
7,427,865
 
 
5,634,350
 
 
5,875,090
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
421,447
 
 
421,651
 
 
135,498
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
7,849,312
 
$
6,056,001
 
$
6,010,588
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
$
1,298,116
 
$
1,165,413
 
$
1,343,562
 


 MGM China
 
 
359,686
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reportable segment Adjusted Property EBITDA
 
 
1,657,802
 
 
1,165,413
 
 
1,343,562
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
(101,233
)
 
(235,200
)
 
(236,463
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,556,569
 
$
930,213
 
$
1,107,099
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        See below for detailed discussion of segment results related to our wholly owned domestic operations and MGM China. Corporate and other revenue
includes revenues from MGM Hospitality and management operations and reimbursed costs revenue primarily related to our CityCenter management agreement. Reimbursed costs revenue represents
reimbursement of costs, primarily payroll-related, incurred by us in connection with the provision of management services and were $351 million, $359 million and $99 million for
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        Adjusted
EBITDA losses related to corporate and other decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily as a result of a decrease in our share of losses from CityCenter, which were impacted
by residential impairment charges as discussed further in "Operating Results – Income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates." Partially offsetting the decrease in losses related to
CityCenter was an increase in corporate expense discussed above and lower earnings from MGM Macau as Adjusted EBITDA related 
41



 
to
corporate and other in 2011 only includes our share of earnings from MGM Macau through June 2, 2011 versus a full year in 2010 and 2009. Adjusted EBITDA losses related to corporate and other
in 2010 decreased slightly from 2009, as an increase in our share of earnings from MGM Macau was offset by increased losses related to CityCenter and lower earnings from Borgata due to discontinuing
equity method accounting. 
        Wholly owned domestic operations. The following table presents detailed net revenue at our wholly owned domestic resorts: 























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
Percentage
Change 
 
2010 
 
Percentage
Change 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Casino revenue, net:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Table games
 
$
800,216
 
(3%)
 
$
827,274
 
(13%)
 
$
955,238
 


 Slots
 
 
1,625,420
 
3%
 
 
1,577,506
 
(2%)
 
 
1,611,037
 


 Other
 
 
66,836
 
(11%)
 
 
74,915
 
(11%)
 
 
83,784
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Casino revenue, net
 
 
2,492,472
 
1%
 
 
2,479,695
 
(6%)
 
 
2,650,059
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-casino revenue:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Rooms
 
 
1,513,789
 
10%
 
 
1,370,054
 
(1%)
 
 
1,385,196
 


 Food and beverage
 
 
1,374,614
 
3%
 
 
1,331,357
 
(2%)
 
 
1,362,325
 


 Entertainment, retail and other
 
 
1,139,139
 
5%
 
 
1,086,469
 
(5%)
 
 
1,143,202
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-casino revenue
 
 
4,027,542
 
6%
 
 
3,787,880
 
(3%)
 
 
3,890,723
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
6,520,014
 
4%
 
 
6,267,575
 
(4%)
 
 
6,540,782
 


 Less: Promotional allowances
 
 
(627,112
)
(1%)
 
 
(633,225
)
(5%)
 
 
(665,692
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
5,892,902
 
5%
 
$
5,634,350
 
(4%)
 
$
5,875,090
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Net revenue related to wholly owned domestic resorts increased 5% compared to 2010, driven by a 13% increase in REVPAR at our Las Vegas Strip
resorts as well as increases across our other non-gaming business. Net revenue related to wholly owned domestic resorts for 2010 decreased 4% compared to 2009. On a same store basis, net
revenues decreased 3%. 
        Table
games revenue in 2011 decreased 3% compared to 2010 and was negatively affected by a lower baccarat hold percentage. Total table games hold percentage was near the low end of our
normal range in both the current and prior year. Total table games revenue in 2011 was also affected by table games volume decreasing 3% compared to the prior year mainly as a result of lower baccarat
volume. Slots revenue increased 3% overall and 4% at our Las Vegas Strip resorts in 2011. 
        In
2010, table games revenue decreased 13% compared to 2009 on a same store basis, mainly as a result of a 6% decrease in overall table games volumes, combined with a lower hold
percentage. Slots revenue decreased 1% in 2010 on a same store basis as a result of lower slots volume on the Las Vegas Strip, partially offset by a 5% increase at MGM Grand Detroit and a 3% increase
at Gold Strike Tunica. 
        Rooms
revenue increased 10% in 2011 compared to 2010 driven by higher hotel rates and occupancy at our Las Vegas Strip resorts, as well as the implementation of resort fees across most
of our resorts. Rooms revenue was flat on a same store basis for 2010 compared to 2009 as a result of a decrease in 
42



 
occupancy
offset by slightly higher room rates. The following table shows key hotel statistics for our Las Vegas Strip resorts: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Occupancy
 
 
90%
 
 
89%
 
 
91%
 


 Average Daily Rate (ADR)
 
$
127
 
$
115
 
$
112
 


 Revenue per Available Room (REVPAR)
 
$
115
 
$
102
 
$
101
 




        Food and beverage revenues increased 3% in 2011 as a result of increased catering and convention sales, as well as higher revenue across many Las
Vegas Strip outlets. Entertainment, retail and other revenues increased 5%, driven by higher entertainment revenues related to arena events and across most Las Vegas Strip production shows. Food and
beverage, entertainment, and retail revenues in 2010 and 2009 were negatively affected by lower customer spending. 
        Adjusted
Property EBITDA at our wholly owned domestic resorts was $1.3 billion in 2011, an increase of 11% driven by improved operating results across most of our Las Vegas Strip
properties. In addition, 2011 Adjusted EBITDA increased 7% at MGM Grand Detroit, 14% at Beau Rivage and Adjusted Property EBITDA margin in 2011 increased by approximately 130 basis points from 2010,
to 22%. 
        Adjusted
Property EBITDA at wholly owned domestic resorts was $1.2 billion in 2010, a decrease of 13% compared to 2009. On a same store basis, excluding the results of Treasure
Island in 2009, Adjusted Property EBITDA decreased 12%. Adjusted Property EBITDA margin in 2010 was approximately 200 basis points lower than 2009 as a result of decreased revenues. 
        MGM China. Net revenue for MGM China was $1.5 billion for the period from June 3, 2011 through December 31, 2011. Adjusted
Property EBITDA was $360 million for the same period. 
        The
following table presents certain supplemental pro forma information for MGM China for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 as if the transaction had occurred as of
January 1, 2010. This information includes the impact of certain purchase accounting adjustments. This supplemental pro forma information is provided solely for comparative purposes and does
not presume to be indicative of what actual results would have been if the acquisition of the controlling financial interest had been completed as of January 1, 2010, nor indicative of future
results: 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net Revenue
 
$
2,605,994
 
$
1,571,226
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Adjusted Property EBITDA
 
$

629,692
 
$

357,664
 


 Property transactions, net
 
 
(1,618
)
 
(3,962
)


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
(359,286
)
 
(373,829
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
268,788
 
 
(20,127
)


 Non-operating income (expense)
 
 
(22,621
)
 
(46,228
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
246,167
 
 
(66,355
)


 Benefit (provision) for income taxes
 
 
99,068
 
 
(37
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
345,235
 
$
(66,392
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




43




 









        Pro
forma net revenue and Adjusted Property EBITDA for MGM China for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased primarily as a result of a 72% increase in VIP table games turnover
and a 17% increase in main floor table games drop. 

 Operating Results – Details of Certain Charges  

        Stock compensation expense is recorded within the department of the recipient of the stock compensation award. The following table
shows the amount of compensation expense recognized related to employee stock-based awards: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Casino
 
$
7,552
 
$
7,592
 
$
10,080
 


 Other operating departments
 
 
3,868
 
 
3,092
 
 
4,287
 


 General and administrative
 
 
9,402
 
 
9,974
 
 
9,584
 


 Corporate expense and other
 
 
18,885
 
 
14,330
 
 
12,620
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
39,707
 
$
34,988
 
$
36,571
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Preopening and start-up expenses consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 CityCenter
 
$
-
 
$
3,494
 
$
52,010
 


 Other
 
 
(316
)
 
753
 
 
1,003
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(316
)
$
4,247
 
$
53,013
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Property transactions, net consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Circus Circus Reno impairment
 
$
79,658
 
$
-
 
$
-
 


 Borgata impairments
 
 
61,962
 
 
128,395
 
 
-
 


 Silver Legacy impairment
 
 
22,966
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 CityCenter investment impairments
 
 
-
 
 
1,313,219
 
 
955,898
 


 Atlantic City Renaissance Pointe land impairment
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
548,347
 


 Gain on sale of TI
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(187,442
)


 Other property transactions, net
 
 
14,012
 
 
9,860
 
 
11,886
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
178,598
 
$
1,451,474
 
$
1,328,689
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Circus Circus Reno. At September 30, 2011 we reviewed the carrying value of our Circus Circus Reno long-lived assets for
impairment using revised operating forecasts developed by management for that resort in the third quarter of 2011. Due to current and forecasted market conditions and results of operations through
September 30, 2011 being lower than previous forecasts, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $80 million in the third quarter of 2011 primarily related to a write-down
of Circus Circus Reno's long-lived assets. Our discounted cash flow analysis for Circus Circus Reno included estimated future cash inflows from operations and estimated future cash
outflows for capital expenditures utilizing an estimated discount rate and terminal year capitalization rate. 
44



 
         Investment in Borgata. As discussed in "Executive Overview," we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $128 million
in 2010 based on an offer received from a potential buyer. We recorded an additional $62 million impairment charge at December 31, 2011. 
         Investment in Silver Legacy. Silver Legacy has approximately $143 million of outstanding senior notes due in March 2012. Silver Legacy
is exploring various alternatives for refinancing or restructuring its obligations under the notes, including filing for bankruptcy protection. We reviewed the carrying value of our investment in
Silver Legacy as of December 31, 2011 and recorded an "other-than-temporary" impairment charge of $23 million to decrease the carrying value of our investment to
zero. We will discontinue applying the equity method for our investment in Silver Legacy and will not provide for additional losses until our share of future net income, if any, equals the share of
net losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended. 
         Investment in CityCenter. At June 30, 2010, we reviewed our CityCenter investment for impairment
using revised operating forecasts developed by CityCenter management. Based on current and forecasted market conditions and because CityCenter's results of operations through June 30, 2010 were
below previous forecasts, and the revised operating forecasts were lower than previous forecasts, we concluded that we should review the carrying value of our investment. We determined that the
carrying value of our investment exceeded our fair value determined using a discounted cash flow analyses and therefore an impairment was indicated. We intend to and believe we will be able to retain
our investment in CityCenter; however, due to the extent of the shortfall and our assessment of the uncertainty of fully recovering our investment, we determined that the impairments were
"other-than-temporary" and recorded impairment charges of $1.12 billion in the second quarter of 2010. 
        At
September 30, 2010, we recognized an increase of $232 million in our total net obligation under our CityCenter completion guarantee, and a corresponding increase in our
investment in CityCenter. The increase primarily reflected a revision to prior estimates based on our assessment of the most current information derived from our close-out and litigation
processes and does not reflect certain potential recoveries that CityCenter is pursuing as part of the litigation process. We completed an impairment review as of September 30, 2010 and as a
result recorded an additional impairment of $191 million in the third quarter of 2010 included in "Property transactions, net." 
        The
discounted cash flow analyses for our investment in CityCenter included estimated future cash inflows from operations, including residential sales, and estimated future cash outflows
for capital expenditures. The June 2010 and September 2010 analyses used an 11% discount rate and a long term growth rate of 4% related to forecasted cash flows for CityCenter's
operating assets. 
        At
September 30, 2009, we reviewed our CityCenter investment for impairment using revised operating forecasts developed by CityCenter management at that time. In addition, the
impairment charge related to CityCenter's residential real estate under development discussed below further indicated that our investment may have experienced an
"other-than-temporary" decline in value. Our discounted cash flow analysis for CityCenter included estimated future cash outflows for construction and maintenance expenditures
and future cash inflows from operations, including residential sales. Based on our analysis, we determined the carrying value of our investment exceeded its fair value and we determined that the
impairment was "other-than-temporary." As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $956 million included in "Property transactions, net." 
         Atlantic City Renaissance Pointe Land. We reviewed the carrying value of our Renaissance Pointe land holdings for impairment at December 31,
2009 as we determined at that time that we did not intend to pursue development of our MGM Grand Atlantic City project for the foreseeable future. Our Board of Directors subsequently terminated this
project. Our Renaissance Pointe land holdings included a 72-acre development site and also included 11 acres of land subject to a long-term lease with the Borgata joint
venture. The fair value of the development land was determined based on a market approach, and the fair value of land subject to the long-term lease with Borgata was determined using a
discounted cash flow 
45



 
analysis
using expected contractual cash flows under the lease discounted at a market capitalization rate. As a result of our review, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of
$548 million in 2009. 
        Sale of TI. On March 20, 2009, we closed the sale of the Treasure Island casino resort for net proceeds of approximately $746 million
and recognized a pre-tax gain of $187 million related to the sale. 
         Other. Other property transactions in 2011 include the write-off of goodwill related to Railroad Pass. Other property transactions during
2010 related primarily to write-downs of various discontinued capital projects. Other property transactions in 2009 primarily related to write-downs of various discontinued capital projects offset by
$7 million of insurance recoveries related to the Monte Carlo fire. 

 Operating Results – Income (Loss) from Unconsolidated Affiliates  

        The following table summarizes information related to our income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 CityCenter
 
$
(56,291
)
$
(250,482
)
$
(208,633
)


 MGM Macau
 
 
115,219
 
 
129,575
 
 
24,615
 


 Borgata
 
 
-
 
 
6,971
 
 
72,602
 


 Other
 
 
32,166
 
 
35,502
 
 
23,189
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
91,094
 
$
(78,434
)
$
(88,227
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We ceased recording MGM Macau operating results as income from unconsolidated affiliates under the equity method of accounting in
June 2011, and we ceased recording Borgata operating results as income from unconsolidated affiliates in March 2010. 
        Our
share of CityCenter operating losses included our share of residential impairment charges of $26 million, $166 million and $203 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Upon substantial completion of construction of the Mandarin Oriental residential inventory in the first quarter of 2010 and the Veer residential inventory in the second quarter of 2010,
CityCenter was required to carry its residential inventory at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less costs to sell. Fair value of the
residential inventory is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis based on management's current expectations of future cash flows. The key inputs in the discounted cash flow analysis include
estimated sales prices of units currently under contract and new unit sales, the absorption rate over the sell-out period, and the discount rate. CityCenter recorded a residential real
estate impairment charge of $53 million in 2011. We recognized 50% of such impairment charge, resulting in a pre-tax charge of approximately $26 million. In 2010, CityCenter
recorded residential impairment charges of $330 million. We recognized 50% of such impairment charges, resulting in a pre-tax charge of approximately $166 million. 
        Included
in loss from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2009 is our share of an impairment charge relating to CityCenter residential real estate under
development ("REUD"). CityCenter was required to review its REUD for impairment as of September 30, 2009, mainly due to CityCenter's September 2009 decision to discount the prices of its
residential inventory by 30%. This decision and related market conditions led to CityCenter management's conclusion that the carrying value of the REUD was not recoverable based on estimates of
undiscounted cash flows. As a result, CityCenter was required to compare the fair value of its REUD to its carrying value and record an impairment charge for the shortfall. Fair value of the REUD was
determined using a discounted cash flow analysis based on management's current expectations of future cash flows. The key inputs in the discounted cash flow analysis included estimated sales prices of
units currently under contract and new unit sales, the absorption 
46



 
rate
over the sell-out period, and the discount rate. This analysis resulted in an impairment charge of approximately $348 million of the REUD. We recognized our 50% share of such
impairment charge, adjusted by certain basis differences, resulting in a pre-tax charge of $203 million. 
 Non-operating Results  
        Interest expense. The following table summarizes information related to interest on our
long-term debt: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Total interest incurred (MGM Resorts)
 
$
1,073,949
 
$
1,113,580
 
$
997,897
 


 Total interest incurred (MGM China)
 
 
12,916
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Interest capitalized
 
 
(33
)
 
-
 
 
(222,466
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,086,832
 
$
1,113,580
 
$
775,431
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid for interest, net of amounts capitalized
 
$
1,001,982
 
$
1,020,040
 
$
807,523
 


 Weighted average total debt balance
 
$
12.4 billion
 
$
12.7 billion
 
$
13.2 billion
 


 End-of-year ratio of fixed-to-floating debt
 
 
72/28
 
 
81/19
 
 
61/39
 


 Weighted average interest rate
 
 
7.7%
 
 
8.0%
 
 
7.6%
 




        In 2011, gross interest costs decreased related to a lower average debt balance during 2011. Included in interest expense in 2011 is
$42 million of amortization of debt discount associated with the amendment of our senior credit facility during 2010. In 2010, gross interest costs increased compared to 2009 due to higher
interest rates on our senior credit facility and newly issued fixed rate borrowings. Also included in interest expense in 2010 is $31 million of amortization of debt discount associated with
the amendment of our senior credit facility during 2010. 
        We
had minimal capitalized interest in 2011 and none in 2010, as we ceased capitalization of interest related to CityCenter in December 2009. We have minimal other ongoing
qualifying capital projects. 
        Other, net. We recorded a net gain on extinguishment of debt of $142 million in "Other, net" related to the modification of our
senior credit facility in March 2010. In 2009, we recorded an impairment of $176 million related to our M Resort note. 
        Income taxes. The following table summarizes information related to our income taxes: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
$
2,831,631
 
$
(2,216,025
)
$
(2,012,593
)


 Benefit for income taxes
 
 
403,313
 
 
778,628
 
 
720,911
 


 Effective income tax rate
 
 
 (14.2)%
 
 
35.1%
 
 
35.8%
 


 Federal, state and foreign income taxes paid, net of refunds
 
$
(172,018
)
$
(330,218
)
$
(53,863
)




        We recorded an income tax benefit in 2011 even though we had pre-tax income for the year because we did not provide U.S. deferred
taxes on the $3.5 billion gain recorded on the acquisition of the controlling financial interest in MGM China. The gain increased the excess amount for financial reporting over the U.S. tax
basis of our investment in MGM China. No U.S. deferred taxes were provided for this excess amount because we expect it to resolve through repatriations of future MGM China earnings for which there
will be sufficient foreign tax credits to offset all U.S. income tax that would result from such repatriations. Excluding the MGM China gain, we would have provided income tax benefit at an effective
tax rate of 60.7% for 2011, higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to an income tax benefit 
47



 
resulting
from a decrease to the Macau net deferred tax liability recorded to reflect an assumed 5-year extension of the exemption from complementary tax on gaming profits and a lower
effective tax rate on MGM China earnings. The income tax benefit on pre-tax loss in 2010 was provided essentially at the federal statutory rate of 35%. The income tax benefit provided on
pre-tax loss in 2009 was greater than 35% primarily as a result of state tax benefit provided on the write-down of land in Atlantic City. 
        The
net refunds of cash taxes in 2011 and 2010 were due primarily to the carryback to prior years of U.S federal income tax net operating losses incurred in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
The net refund of cash taxes in 2009 was due primarily to refunds of taxes that were paid in 2008. 

 Non-GAAP Measures  

        "Adjusted EBITDA" is earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), taxes, depreciation and
amortization, preopening and start-up expenses, and property transactions, net, and the gain on the MGM China transaction. "Adjusted Property EBITDA" is Adjusted EBITDA before corporate
expense and stock compensation expense related to the MGM Resorts stock option plan, which is not allocated to each property. MGM China recognizes stock compensation expense related to its stock
compensation plan which is included in the calculation of Adjusted Property EBITDA for MGM China. Adjusted EBITDA information is presented solely as a supplemental disclosure to reported GAAP measures
because management believes these measures are 1) widely used measures of operating performance in the gaming industry, and 2) a principal basis for valuation of gaming companies. 
        We
believe that while items excluded from Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Property EBITDA may be recurring in nature and should not be disregarded in evaluation of our earnings performance,
it is useful to exclude such items when analyzing current results and trends compared to other periods because these items can vary significantly depending on specific underlying transactions or
events that may not be comparable between the periods being presented. Also, we believe excluded items may not relate specifically to current operating trends or be indicative of future results. For
example, preopening and start-up expenses will be significantly different in periods when we are developing and constructing a major expansion project and dependent on where the current
period lies within the development cycle, as well as the size and scope of the project(s). "Property transactions, net" includes normal recurring disposals and gains and losses on sales of assets
related to specific assets within our resorts, but also includes gains or losses on sales of an entire operating resort or a group of resorts and impairment charges on entire asset groups or
investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which may not be comparable period over period. In addition, capital allocation, tax planning, financing and stock compensation awards are all managed at the
corporate level. Therefore, we use Adjusted Property EBITDA as the primary measure of our operating resorts' performance. 
        Adjusted
EBITDA or Adjusted Property EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income or net income, as an indicator of our performance; or as an alternative to cash
flows from operating activities, as a measure of liquidity; or as any other measure determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have significant uses of cash flows,
including capital expenditures, interest payments, taxes and debt principal repayments, which are not reflected in Adjusted EBITDA. Also, other companies in the gaming and hospitality industries that
report Adjusted EBITDA information may calculate Adjusted EBITDA in a different manner and therefore, comparability may be limited. 
48



 
        The
following table presents a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Adjusted EBITDA
 
$
1,556,569
 
$
930,213
 
$
1,107,099
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
316
 
 
(4,247
)
 
(53,013
)


 Property transactions, net
 
 
(178,598
)
 
(1,451,474
)
 
(1,328,689
)


 Gain on MGM China transaction
 
 
3,496,005
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
(817,146
)
 
(633,423
)
 
(689,273
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
4,057,146
 
 
(1,158,931
)
 
(963,876
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-operating income (expense):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense, net
 
 
(1,086,832
)
 
(1,113,580
)
 
(775,431
)


 Other, net
 
 
(138,683
)
 
56,486
 
 
(273,286
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
(1,225,515
)
 
(1,057,094
)
 
(1,048,717
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
2,831,631
 
 
(2,216,025
)
 
(2,012,593
)


 Benefit for income taxes
 
 
403,313
 
 
778,628
 
 
720,911
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
3,234,944
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)


 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(120,307
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
$
3,114,637
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,291,682
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




49



 
        The following tables present reconciliations of operating income (loss) to Adjusted Property EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: 

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Operating
Income (Loss) 
 
Preopening
and Start-up
Expenses 
 
Gain on
MGM China
Transaction &
Property
Transactions,
Net 
 
Depreciation
and
Amortization 
 
Adjusted
EBITDA 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Bellagio
 
$
203,026
 
$
-
 
$
2,772
 
$
96,699
 
$
302,497
 


 MGM Grand Las Vegas
 
 
71,762
 
 
-
 
 
232
 
 
77,142
 
 
149,136
 


 Mandalay Bay
 
 
84,105
 
 
-
 
 
531
 
 
84,488
 
 
169,124
 


 The Mirage
 
 
41,338
 
 
-
 
 
1,559
 
 
59,546
 
 
102,443
 


 Luxor
 
 
39,866
 
 
-
 
 
112
 
 
38,103
 
 
78,081
 


 New York-New York
 
 
63,824
 
 
-
 
 
(76
)
 
23,536
 
 
87,284
 


 Excalibur
 
 
44,428
 
 
-
 
 
646
 
 
20,183
 
 
65,257
 


 Monte Carlo
 
 
35,059
 
 
-
 
 
131
 
 
22,214
 
 
57,404
 


 Circus Circus Las Vegas
 
 
4,040
 
 
-
 
 
(1
)
 
18,905
 
 
22,944
 


 MGM Grand Detroit
 
 
125,235
 
 
-
 
 
1,415
 
 
39,369
 
 
166,019
 


 Beau Rivage
 
 
30,313
 
 
-
 
 
58
 
 
39,649
 
 
70,020
 


 Gold Strike Tunica
 
 
15,991
 
 
-
 
 
36
 
 
13,639
 
 
29,666
 


 Other resort operations
 
 
(86,012
)
 
-
 
 
80,120
 
 
4,133
 
 
(1,759
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
 
672,975
 
 
-
 
 
87,535
 
 
537,606
 
 
1,298,116
 


 MGM China
 
 
137,440
 
 
-
 
 
1,120
 
 
221,126
 
 
359,686
 


 MGM Macau (50%)
 
 
115,219
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
115,219
 


 CityCenter (50%)
 
 
(56,291
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(56,291
)


 Other unconsolidated resorts
 
 
32,166
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
32,166
 


 Management and other operations
 
 
(13,813
)
 
(316
)
 
-
 
 
14,416
 
 
287
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
887,696
 
 
(316
)
 
88,655
 
 
773,148
 
 
1,749,183
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock compensation
 
 
(36,528
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(36,528
)


 Corporate
 
 
3,205,978
 
 
-
 
 
(3,406,062
)
 
43,998
 
 
(156,086
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
4,057,146
 
$
(316
)
$
(3,317,407
)
$
817,146
 
$
1,556,569
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)For
the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, represents the Adjusted EBITDA of MGM China from June 3, 2011 (the first day of our majority
ownership of MGM China) through December 31, 2011.  (2)Represents
our share of operating income, adjusted for the effect of certain basis differences for the approximately five months ended June 2, 2011. 

50



 

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Operating
Income (Loss) 
 
Preopening
and Start-up
Expenses 
 
Property
Transactions,
Net 
 
Depreciation
and
Amortization 
 
Adjusted
EBITDA 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Bellagio
 
$
174,355
 
$
-
 
$
(17
)
$
96,290
 
$
270,628
 


 MGM Grand Las Vegas
 
 
84,359
 
 
-
 
 
127
 
 
78,607
 
 
163,093
 


 Mandalay Bay
 
 
29,859
 
 
-
 
 
2,892
 
 
91,634
 
 
124,385
 


 The Mirage
 
 
36,189
 
 
-
 
 
(207
)
 
66,124
 
 
102,106
 


 Luxor
 
 
18,822
 
 
-
 
 
257
 
 
42,117
 
 
61,196
 


 New York-New York
 
 
41,845
 
 
-
 
 
6,880
 
 
27,529
 
 
76,254
 


 Excalibur
 
 
39,534
 
 
-
 
 
803
 
 
22,899
 
 
63,236
 


 Monte Carlo
 
 
5,020
 
 
185
 
 
3,923
 
 
24,427
 
 
33,555
 


 Circus Circus Las Vegas
 
 
(5,366
)
 
-
 
 
230
 
 
20,741
 
 
15,605
 


 MGM Grand Detroit
 
 
115,040
 
 
-
 
 
(327
)
 
40,460
 
 
155,173
 


 Beau Rivage
 
 
21,564
 
 
-
 
 
349
 
 
39,374
 
 
61,287
 


 Gold Strike Tunica
 
 
26,115
 
 
-
 
 
(540
)
 
14,278
 
 
39,853
 


 Other resort operations
 
 
(6,391
)
 
-
 
 
20
 
 
5,413
 
 
(958
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
 
580,945
 
 
185
 
 
14,390
 
 
569,893
 
 
1,165,413
 


 MGM Macau (50%)
 
 
129,575
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
129,575
 


 CityCenter (50%)
 
 
(253,976
)
 
3,494
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(250,482
)


 Other unconsolidated resorts
 
 
42,764
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
42,764
 


 Management and other operations
 
 
(27,084
)
 
568
 
 
-
 
 
14,358
 
 
(12,158
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
472,224
 
 
4,247
 
 
14,390
 
 
584,251
 
 
1,075,112
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock compensation
 
 
(34,988
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(34,988
)


 Corporate
 
 
(1,596,167
)
 
-
 
 
1,437,084
 
 
49,172
 
 
(109,911
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(1,158,931
)
$
4,247
 
$
1,451,474
 
$
633,423
 
$
930,213
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




51



 


























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
 


 
 
Operating
Income (Loss) 
 
Preopening
and Start-up
Expenses 
 
Property
Transactions,
Net 
 
Depreciation
and
Amortization 
 
Adjusted
EBITDA 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Bellagio
 
$
157,079
 
$
-
 
$
2,326
 
$
115,267
 
$
274,672
 


 MGM Grand Las Vegas
 
 
123,378
 
 
-
 
 
30
 
 
90,961
 
 
214,369
 


 Mandalay Bay
 
 
65,841
 
 
948
 
 
(73
)
 
93,148
 
 
159,864
 


 The Mirage
 
 
74,756
 
 
-
 
 
313
 
 
66,049
 
 
141,118
 


 Luxor
 
 
37,527
 
 
(759
)
 
181
 
 
39,218
 
 
76,167
 


 Treasure Island
 
 
12,730
 
 
-
 
 
(1
)
 
-
 
 
12,729
 


 New York-New York
 
 
45,445
 
 
-
 
 
1,631
 
 
31,479
 
 
78,555
 


 Excalibur
 
 
47,973
 
 
-
 
 
(16
)
 
24,173
 
 
72,130
 


 Monte Carlo
 
 
16,439
 
 
-
 
 
(4,740
)
 
24,895
 
 
36,594
 


 Circus Circus Las Vegas
 
 
4,015
 
 
-
 
 
(9
)
 
23,116
 
 
27,122
 


 MGM Grand Detroit
 
 
90,183
 
 
-
 
 
7,336
 
 
40,491
 
 
138,010
 


 Beau Rivage
 
 
16,234
 
 
-
 
 
157
 
 
49,031
 
 
65,422
 


 Gold Strike Tunica
 
 
29,010
 
 
-
 
 
(209
)
 
16,250
 
 
45,051
 


 Other resort operations
 
 
(4,172
)
 
-
 
 
(57
)
 
5,988
 
 
1,759
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
 
716,438
 
 
189
 
 
6,869
 
 
620,066
 
 
1,343,562
 


 MGM Macau (50%)
 
 
24,615
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
24,615
 


 CityCenter (50%)
 
 
(260,643
)
 
52,009
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(208,634
)


 Other unconsolidated resorts
 
 
96,132
 
 
815
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
96,947
 


 Management and other operations
 
 
7,285
 
 
-
 
 
2,473
 
 
8,564
 
 
18,322
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
583,827
 
 
53,013
 
 
9,342
 
 
628,630
 
 
1,274,812
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock compensation
 
 
(36,571
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(36,571
)


 Corporate
 
 
(1,511,132
)
 
-
 
 
1,319,347
 
 
60,643
 
 
(131,142
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(963,876
)
$
53,013
 
$
1,328,689
 
$
689,273
 
$
1,107,099
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




52



 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Cash Flows – Summary  

        Our cash flows consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
$
675,126
 
$
504,014
 
$
587,914
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investing cash flows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital expenditures, net of construction payable
 
 
(301,244
)
 
(207,491
)
 
(136,850
)


 Proceeds from sale of Treasure Island, net
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
746,266
 


 Acquisition of MGM China, net of cash paid
 
 
407,046
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(128,848
)
 
(553,000
)
 
(963,685
)


 Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates in excess of earnings
 
 
2,212
 
 
135,058
 
 
-
 


 Distributions from cost method investments
 
 
-
 
 
113,422
 
 
-
 


 Property damage insurance recoveries
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
7,186
 


 Investments in treasury securities- maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
(330,313
)
 
(149,999
)
 
-
 


 Proceeds from treasury securities- maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
330,130
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Other
 
 
(295
)
 
75,931
 
 
16,828
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(21,312
)
 
(586,079
)
 
(330,255
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Financing cash flows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net borrowings (repayments) under bank credit facilities
 
 
900,848
 
 
(3,207,716
)
 
(198,156
)


 Issuance of senior notes
 
 
311,415
 
 
2,489,485
 
 
1,921,751
 


 Retirement of senior notes
 
 
(493,816
)
 
(1,154,479
)
 
(1,176,452
)


 Issuance of common stock in public offering, net
 
 
-
 
 
588,456
 
 
1,104,418
 


 Other
 
 
(6,525
)
 
(190,924
)
 
(162,811
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
711,922
 
 
(1,475,178
)
 
1,488,750
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effect of exchange rate on cash
 
 
1,213
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1,366,949
 
$
(1,557,243
)
$
1,746,409
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




53




 










 Cash Flows – Operating Activities  

        We require a certain amount of cash on hand to operate our resorts. Beyond our cash on hand, we utilize company-wide cash
management procedures to minimize the amount of cash held on hand or in banks. Funds are swept from accounts at our resorts daily into central bank accounts, and excess funds are invested overnight or
are used to repay borrowings under our bank credit facilities. Trends in our operating cash flows tend to follow trends in operating income, excluding non-cash charges, but can be affected
by the timing of significant tax payments or refunds and distributions from unconsolidated affiliates. 
        At
December 31, 2011 and 2010, we held cash and cash equivalents of $1.9 billion and $499 million, respectively. In December 2011, we borrowed an additional
$778 million under our senior credit facility to increase our capacity for issuing additional secured indebtedness. In addition, our cash balance at December 31, 2011 included
$720 million of cash and cash equivalents related to MGM China. 
        Cash
provided by operating activities increased 34% compared to 2010. The current year includes $354 million in cash provided by operating activities related to MGM China. In
addition, increased cash flows at our resorts were offset by lower tax refunds received in the current year period compared to the prior year period. We received net tax refunds of approximately
$172 million in 2011 and net tax refunds of approximately $330 million in 2010. Cash flow from operating activities decreased 14% in
2010 compared to 2009 due to a decrease in operating income excluding non-cash charges, partially offset by the tax refund noted above. 

 Cash Flows – Investing Activities  

        A significant portion of our investing activities over the past three years related to our CityCenter joint venture. In 2011, we made
contributions of $129 million to CityCenter, including $92 million related to the completion guarantee. In 2010, we made contributions of $553 million to CityCenter related to the
completion guarantee. In 2009, we made equity contributions of $731 million to CityCenter. 
        We
had capital expenditures of $301 million in 2011, which included $27 million at MGM China. Capital expenditures related mainly to room remodels at Bellagio and MGM
Grand, restaurant remodels, theater renovations, slot machine purchases and a remodel of the high limit slots area at Bellagio. Most of the costs capitalized related to furniture and fixtures,
materials, and external labor costs. Capital expenditures of $207 million in 2010 mainly related to enhancements at various resorts and the purchase of an airplane. Capital expenditures of
$137 million in 2009 consisted primarily of room remodel projects and various property enhancements, including capitalized interest. 
        Our
capital expenditures fluctuate from year to year depending on our decisions with respect to strategic capital investments in new or existing resorts and the timing of more regular
capital investments to maintain the quality of our resorts; the amounts of which can vary depending on timing of larger remodel projects related to our public spaces and hotel rooms. In accordance
with our senior credit facility covenants, we and our restricted subsidiaries were limited to $500 million of annual capital expenditures (as defined in the agreement governing our senior
credit facility) in 2011. 
        In
June 2011, we paid approximately $75 million to acquire an additional 1% interest in MGM China and acquired cash of $482 million. 
        During
2011, the trust holding our 50% ownership interest in Borgata received proceeds of $330 million from treasury securities with maturities greater than 90 days and
reinvested $330 million in treasury securities with maturities greater than 90 days. We did not receive distributions from the Borgata trust in 2011. In 2010, the trust received
$113 million of net distributions from Borgata and received $71 million from the sale of ground leases and underlying land. All amounts in the trust account, including the proceeds from
the sale of our Borgata interest, will be distributed to us upon consummation of the sale of our Borgata interest. At December 31, 2011, there was $188 million in the trust account. 
54



 
        In
2010, we recognized $135 million of distributions from unconsolidated affiliates within investing activities as a return of our investments, which primarily related to MGM
Macau. We received a total of $192 million from MGM Macau in 2010, $59 million of which was recognized as cash flows from operating activities. 
        We
received $746 million in net proceeds related to the sale of TI in 2009. The insurance recoveries classified as investing cash flows in 2009 relate to the Monte Carlo fire. 

 Cash Flows – Financing Activities  

        In 2011, excluding the $778 million we repaid in early January 2012 on our senior credit facility, we repaid $60 million
of net debt in 2011 including $91 million repaid by MGM China under its senior credit facility for the period from June 3, 2011 through December 31, 2011. 
        During
the year, we repaid:


•$325 million outstanding principal amount of our 8.375% senior subordinated notes at maturity; •$129 million outstanding
principal amount of our 6.375% senior notes due 2011 at maturity; •$6 million outstanding principal amount of our floating rate senior convertible debentures due 2033; and
•$10 million principal amount of our 6.75% senior notes due 2012 and $22 million principal amount of our
6.75% senior notes due 2013 in open market repurchases. 

        During
2011, we issued $300 million of 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 for net proceeds of $311 million, which were used to pay down borrowings under our senior
credit facility. 
        In
2010, excluding the $1.6 billion we repaid in early January 2011 on our senior credit facility, we repaid net debt of $290 million. We issued the following senior
secured, convertible senior and senior notes during 2010:


•$1.15 billion of 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2015; we paid $81 million for capped call transactions
entered into in connection with the issuance; •$845 million of 9% senior secured notes due 2020; and •$500 million
of 10% senior notes due 2016. 

        In
the fourth quarter of 2010, we issued approximately 47 million shares of our common stock for total net proceeds to us of approximately $588 million. Concurrently with
our stock issuance, Tracinda sold approximately 32 million shares of our common stock. We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of such common stock by Tracinda. 
        We
repaid the following principal amounts of senior and senior subordinated notes during 2010:


•$75 million 8.375% senior subordinated notes (redeemed prior to maturity essentially at par); •$297 million 9.375% senior
notes (repaid at maturity); and •$782 million of our 8.5% senior notes (redeemed $136 million prior to maturity essentially at par and repaid
$646 million at maturity). 

        Excluding
the $1.6 billion borrowed under the senior credit facility in late December 2009 and repaid in early January 2010, we repaid net debt of $1.1 billion in 2009. In
addition, pursuant to our development agreement, we repaid $49 million of bonds issued by the Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit. In May 2009, we issued approximately
164.5 million shares of our common stock at $7 per share, for total net proceeds to us of $1.2 billion. 
        We
issued the following senior secured and senior notes during 2009:


•$650 million of 10.375% senior secured notes due 2014; 

55



 


•$850 million of 11.125% senior secured notes due 2017; and •$475 million of 11.375% senior notes due 2018. 

        We
repaid the following principal amounts of senior and senior subordinated notes during 2009:


•$226 million 6.5% senior notes (redeemed $122 million prior to maturity essentially at par); •$820 million 6% senior
notes (redeemed $763 million prior to maturity essentially at par and the remaining
$57 million was repaid at maturity); and •$100 million 7.25% senior debentures (redeemed prior to maturity for $127 million). 
 Other Factors Affecting Liquidity  

         Borgata settlement. As discussed in "Executive Overview," we entered into a settlement agreement with the DGE under which we will sell our 50%
ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City. Prior to the consummation of the sale, the divestiture trust will retain any cash flows received in respect of the trust
property, but will pay property taxes and other costs attributable to the trust property to the extent that minimum trust cash balances are maintained. Prior to the settlement agreement, we had
received significant distributions from Borgata, and not receiving such distributions until the ultimate sale could negatively affect our liquidity in interim periods. 
         CityCenter completion guarantee. In January 2011, we entered into an amended completion and cost overrun guarantee in connection with CityCenter's
restated senior credit facility agreement and issuance of $1.5 billion of senior secured first lien notes and senior secured second lien notes. Consistent with the previous completion
guarantee, the terms of the amended completion guarantee provide for the application of the then remaining $124 million of net residential proceeds from sales of condominium properties at
CityCenter to fund construction costs, or to reimburse us for construction costs previously expended; however, the timing of receipt of such proceeds is uncertain. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we had funded $645 million under the completion guarantee. We have recorded a receivable from CityCenter of $110 million related to these
amounts, which represents amounts reimbursable to us from CityCenter from future residential proceeds. We had a remaining estimated net obligation under the completion guarantee of $28 million
which includes estimated litigation costs for the resolution of disputes with contractors as to the final construction costs and estimated amounts to be paid to contractors either through the joint
venture's extra-judicial settlement process or through the legal process related to the Perini litigation. Our accrual also reflects certain
estimated offsets to the amounts claimed by the contractors. CityCenter has reached, or expects to reach, settlement agreements with most of the construction subcontractors. However, significant
disputes remain with the general contractor and certain subcontractors. Amounts claimed by such parties exceed amounts included in our completion guarantee accrual by approximately
$185 million, as such amounts exceed our best estimate of our liability. Moreover, we have not accrued for any contingent payments to CityCenter related to the Harmon Hotel & Spa
component, which is unlikely to be completed using the building as it now stands. See Note 11 in the accompanying financial statements for discussion of the status of the Harmon. 
        We
do not believe we would be responsible for funding under the completion guarantee any additional remediation efforts that might be required with respect to the Harmon; however, our
view is based on a number of developing factors, including with respect to on-going litigation with CityCenter's contractors, actions by local officials and other developments related to
the CityCenter venture, that are subject to change. CityCenter's restated senior credit facility provides that certain demolition expenses may be funded only by equity contributions from the members
of the CityCenter venture or certain specified extraordinary receipts (which include any proceeds from the Perini litigation). Based on current estimates, which are subject to change, we believe the
demolition of the Harmon would cost approximately $31 million 
56



 
 Principal Debt Arrangements  
        Our long-term debt consists of publicly held senior, senior secured, senior subordinated and convertible senior notes and
our senior credit facility. We pay fixed rates of interest ranging from 4.25% to 13% on our senior, senior secured, convertible senior and subordinated notes. At December 31, 2011, our senior
credit facility had a capacity of $3.5 billion consisting of a term loan facility of $1.8 billion and a revolving credit facility of $1.7 billion and interest was based on a LIBOR
margin of 5.00%, with a LIBOR floor of 2.00%, and a base margin of 4.00%, with a base rate floor of 4.00%. We amended and restated our senior credit facility in February 2012, see "Executive Overview"
for more information on the amended and restated senior credit facility. 
        Our
senior credit facility contains certain financial and non-financial covenants, including a quarterly minimum EBITDA test, based on a rolling 12-month EBITDA
and a covenant limiting annual capital expenditures. Further, our senior credit facility and certain of our debt securities contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability
to: pay dividends or distributions, repurchase or issue equity, prepay debt or make certain investments; incur additional debt or issue certain disqualified stock and preferred stock; incur liens on
assets; pledge or sell assets or consolidate with another company or sell all or substantially all assets; enter into transactions with
affiliates; allow certain subsidiaries to transfer assets; and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. We are in compliance with all covenants, including financial covenants, under
our senior credit facilities as of December 31, 2011. 
        At
December 31, 2011, we and our restricted subsidiaries were required under the senior credit facility to maintain a minimum trailing annual EBITDA (as defined in the agreement
governing our senior credit facility) of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2011. EBITDA for the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2011 calculated in accordance with the
terms of the senior credit facility was $1.28 billion. Additionally, we and our restricted subsidiaries were limited to $500 million of annual capital expenditures (as defined) during
2011; we were in compliance with the maximum capital expenditures covenants at December 31, 2011. We are limited to $500 million of capital expenditures in 2012. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, our senior credit facility allowed us to refinance indebtedness maturing prior to February 21, 2014, but limited our ability to prepay later
maturing indebtedness until the extended facilities are paid in full. We may issue unsecured debt, equity-linked and equity securities to refinance our outstanding indebtedness; however, we were
required to use net proceeds (a) from certain indebtedness issued in amounts in excess of $250 million (excluding amounts used to refinance indebtedness) and (b) from equity
issued, other than in exchange for our indebtedness, in amounts in excess of $500 million (which limit we reached with our October 2010 stock offering) to ratably prepay the credit facilities,
in each case, in an amount equal to 50% of the net cash proceeds of such excess subject to certain limitations under our senior credit facility and senior note indentures. Under the restated senior
credit facility we are no longer required to use net proceeds from equity offerings to prepay the restated senior credit facility. 
        All
of our principal debt arrangements are guaranteed by each of our material subsidiaries, other than MGM Grand Detroit, LLC, our foreign subsidiaries and their U.S. holding
companies, and our insurance subsidiaries. MGM Grand Detroit is a guarantor under the senior credit facility, but only to the extent that MGM Grand Detroit, LLC borrows under such facility. At
December 31, 2011, the outstanding amount of borrowings related to MGM Grand Detroit, LLC was $450 million. In connection with our May 2009 senior credit facility amendment, MGM
Grand Detroit granted lenders a security interest in its assets to secure its obligations under the senior credit facility. We and our subsidiaries may from time to time, in our sole discretion,
purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of our outstanding debt securities, in privately negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise pursuant to authorization of our Board of
Directors. 
        Also
in connection with our May 2009 senior credit facility amendment, we granted a security interest in Gold Strike Tunica and certain undeveloped land on the Las Vegas Strip to secure
up to $300 million of obligations under the senior credit facility. In addition, substantially all of the assets of New York-New 
57



 
York
serve as collateral for the 13% senior secured notes issued in 2008, substantially all of the assets of Bellagio and The Mirage serve as collateral for the 10.375% and 11.125% senior secured
notes issued in 2009, and substantially all of the assets of the MGM Grand serve as collateral for the 9.00% senior secured notes issued in 2010. Upon the issuance of the 10.375%, 11.125%, and 9.00%
senior secured notes, the holders of our 13% senior secured notes due 2013 obtained an equal and ratable lien in all collateral securing these notes. No other assets serve as collateral for our
principal debt arrangements. 
        MGM
Grand Paradise's credit facility is equivalent to approximately $552 million in term loans and a $400 million undrawn revolving loan at December 31, 2011, based
on exchange rates at that date. Scheduled amortization on the term loan begins in July 2012 with a lump sum payment of $276 million upon final maturity in July 2015. The revolving loan may be
redrawn, but is required to be repaid in full on the last date of the respective term loan, no later than July 2015. Interest on the term loan facility is based on HIBOR plus a margin ranging between
3% and 4.5%, based on MGM Grand Paradise's adjusted leverage ratio as defined in its credit facility agreement. Interest on the revolving facility can be denominated in either Hong Kong dollars or
U.S. dollars and is based on the same margin range, plus HIBOR or LIBOR, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2011, the revolving facility is denominated entirely in Hong Kong dollars and
interest is based on HIBOR plus 3%. 
        At
December 31, 2011, MGM Grand Paradise was required to maintain a specified adjusted leverage ratio at the end of each quarter while the loans are outstanding. The adjusted
leverage ratio is required to be no greater than 4.00 to 1.00 for each quarter during 2011 and no greater than 3.50 to 1.00 thereafter. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise is required to maintain a debt
service coverage ratio of no less than 1.50 to 1.00 at each quarter end. At December 31, 2011, MGM Grand Paradise was in compliance with its adjusted leverage ratio and debt service coverage
ratios. 

 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  

         Investments in unconsolidated affiliates. Our off balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of investments in unconsolidated affiliates, which
consist primarily of our investments in CityCenter, Grand Victoria and Silver Legacy. We have not entered into any transactions with special purpose entities, nor have we engaged in any derivative
transactions. Our unconsolidated affiliate investments allow us to realize the proportionate benefits of owning a full-scale resort in a manner that minimizes our initial investment. We
have not historically guaranteed financing obtained by our
investees, and there are no other provisions of the venture agreements which we believe are unusual or subject us to risks to which we would not be subjected if we had full ownership of the resort. 
         Letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $37 million. 
58



 
 Commitments and Contractual Obligations  
        The following table summarizes our scheduled contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011: 




























 
 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
 
2016 
 
Thereafter 
 


 
 
(In millions)
 


 Long-term debt
 
$
563
 
$
1,445
 
$
4,565
 
$
2,656
 
$
1,476
 
$
2,918
 


 Estimated interest payments on long-term debt (1)
 
 
1,047
 
 
996
 
 
624
 
 
502
 
 
367
 
 
494
 


 Capital leases
 
 
1
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Operating leases
 
 
18
 
 
13
 
 
7
 
 
5
 
 
4
 
 
39
 


 Tax liabilities (2)
 
 
29
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Long-term liabilities
 
 
6
 
 
5
 
 
5
 
 
4
 
 
3
 
 
28
 


 CityCenter funding commitments (3)
 
 
28
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Other Purchase obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Employment agreements
 
 
101
 
 
48
 
 
12
 
 
1
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Entertainment agreements (4)
 
 
94
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Other (5)
 
 
207
 
 
42
 
 
43
 
 
42
 
 
32
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,094
 
$
2,549
 
$
5,256
 
$
3,210
 
$
1,882
 
$
3,479
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 






(1)Estimated
interest payments are based on principal amounts and expected maturities of debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 and management's
forecasted LIBOR rates for our senior credit facility and HIBOR rates for the MGM Grand Paradise credit facility.  (2)Approximately
$112 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions and other tax liabilities are excluded from the table as we cannot
reasonably estimate when examination and other activity related to these amounts will conclude.  (3)Under
our completion guarantee for CityCenter, we are committed to fund amounts in excess of currently funded project costs. Based on current forecasted
expenditures, we estimate that we will be required to fund approximately $28 million for such guarantee, excluding future proceeds to be received from residential closings of
$110 million.  (4)Our
largest entertainment commitments consist of minimum contractual payments to Cirque du Soleil, which performs shows at several of our resorts. We are
generally contractually committed for a period of 12 months based on our ability to exercise certain termination rights; however, we expect these shows to continue for longer periods. (5)The
amount for 2011 includes approximately $114 million of open purchase orders. Other commitments are for various contracts, including information
technology, advertising, maintenance and other service agreements. 

        See "Executive Overview—Liquidity and Financial Position" for discussion of our liquidity and financial position and ability to meet
known obligations. 
59




 









 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
        Management's discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our consolidated
financial statements. To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements. We regularly evaluate these estimates and assumptions, particularly in areas we consider to be critical
accounting estimates, where changes in the estimates and assumptions could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Senior management and the Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors have reviewed the disclosures included herein about our critical accounting estimates, and have reviewed the processes to determine those estimates. However, by
their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty and therefore actual results can differ from our estimates. 

 Business Combinations  

        We accounted for our acquisition of MGM China in June 2011 as a business combination and have historically had significant acquisitions
accounted for as business
combinations. In a business combination, we determine the fair value of acquired assets, including identifiable intangible assets, assumed liabilities, and noncontrolling interests. The fair value of
the acquired business is allocated to the acquired assets, assumed liabilities, and noncontrolling interests based on their fair value, with any remaining fair value allocated to goodwill. This
allocation process requires use of estimates and assumptions, including estimates of future cash flows to be generated by the acquired assets. Identifiable finite-life intangible assets,
such as certain license rights and customer lists, are amortized over the intangible asset's estimated useful life. The method of amortization reflects the pattern in which the economic benefits of
the intangible asset are consumed if determinable, normally estimated based on estimated future cash flows of the intangible asset. Goodwill, as well as other intangible assets determined to have
indefinite lives, are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment as discussed further below. 

 Allowance for Doubtful Casino Accounts Receivable  

        Marker play represents a significant portion of the table games volume at Aria, Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas and The Mirage. In
addition, MGM China extends credit to certain in house gaming customers and gaming promoters. Our other facilities do not emphasize marker play to the same extent, although we offer markers to
customers at those casinos as well. We maintain strict controls over the issuance of markers and aggressively pursue collection from those customers who fail to pay their marker balances timely. These
collection efforts are similar to those used by most large corporations when dealing with overdue customer accounts, including the mailing of statements and delinquency notices, personal contacts, the
use of outside collection agencies and civil litigation. Markers are generally legally enforceable instruments in the United States and Macau. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 28%
and 36%, respectively, of our casino accounts receivable was owed by customers from the United States. Markers are not legally enforceable instruments in some foreign countries, but the United States
assets of foreign customers may be reached to satisfy judgments entered in the United States. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 61% and 51%, respectively, of our casino accounts
receivable was owed by customers from the Far East. We consider the likelihood and difficulty of enforceability, among other factors, when we issue credit to customers who are not residents of the
United States. 
        We
maintain an allowance, or reserve, for doubtful casino accounts at all of our operating casino resorts. The provision for doubtful accounts, an operating expense, increases the
allowance for doubtful accounts. We regularly evaluate the allowance for doubtful casino accounts. At resorts where marker play is not significant, the allowance is generally established by applying
standard reserve percentages to aged account balances. At resorts where marker play is significant, we apply standard reserve percentages to aged account balances under a specified dollar amount and
specifically analyze the collectibility of each account with a balance over the specified dollar amount, based on the age of the account, the customer's 
60



 
financial
condition, collection history and any other known information. We also monitor regional and global economic conditions and forecasts to determine if reserve levels are adequate. 
        In
addition to enforceability issues, the collectibility of unpaid markers given by foreign customers is affected by a number of factors, including changes in currency exchange rates and
economic conditions in the customers' home countries. Because individual customer account balances can be significant, the allowance and the provision can change significantly between periods, as
information about a certain customer becomes known or as changes in a region's economy occur. 
        The
following table shows key statistics related to our casino receivables: 



















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Casino receivables
 
$
347,679
 
$
229,318
 
$
261,025
 


 Allowance for doubtful casino accounts receivable
 
 
94,800
 
 
85,547
 
 
88,557
 


 Allowance as a percentage of casino accounts receivable
 
 
27%
 
 
37%
 
 
34%
 


 Percentage of casino accounts outstanding over 180 days
 
 
18%
 
 
28%
 
 
24%
 




        Approximately $87 million of casino receivables and $21 million of the allowance for doubtful casino accounts receivable relate to
MGM China at December 31, 2011. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of casino accounts receivable has decreased in the current year due to improved aging of accounts and
improved collections. At December 31, 2011, a 100 basis-point change in the allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of casino accounts receivable would change pre-tax net
income by $3 million, or less than $0.01 per share. 

 Fixed Asset Capitalization and Depreciation Policies  

        Property and equipment are stated at cost. For the majority of our property and equipment, cost has been determined based on estimated
fair values in connection with the June 2011 MGM China acquisition, the April 2005 Mandalay acquisition and the May 2000 Mirage Resorts acquisition. Maintenance and repairs that neither materially add
to the value of the property nor appreciably prolong its life are charged to expense as incurred. Depreciation and amortization are provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the assets. When we construct assets, we capitalize direct costs of the project, including fees paid to architects and contractors, property taxes, and certain costs of our design and
construction subsidiaries. In addition, interest cost associated with major development and construction projects is capitalized as part of the cost of the project. Interest is typically capitalized
on amounts expended on the project using the weighted-average cost of our outstanding borrowings, since we typically do not borrow funds directly related to a development project. Capitalization of
interest starts when construction activities begin and ceases when construction is substantially complete or development activity is suspended for more than a brief period. 
        We
must make estimates and assumptions when accounting for capital expenditures. Whether an expenditure is considered a maintenance expense or a capital asset is a matter of judgment.
When constructing or purchasing assets, we must determine whether existing assets are being replaced or otherwise impaired, which also may be a matter of judgment. In addition, our depreciation
expense is highly dependent on the assumptions we make about our assets' estimated useful lives. We determine the estimated useful lives based on our experience with similar assets, engineering
studies, and our estimate of the usage of the asset. Whenever events or circumstances occur which change the estimated useful life of an asset, we account for the change prospectively. 
61



 

 Impairment of Long-lived Assets, Goodwill and Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets  

        We evaluate our property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment based on our classification as
a) held for sale or b) to be held and used. Several criteria must be met before an asset is classified as held for sale, including that management with the appropriate authority commits
to a plan to sell the asset at a reasonable price in relation to its fair value and is actively seeking a buyer. For assets classified as held for sale, we recognize the asset at the lower of carrying
value or fair market value less costs of disposal, as
estimated based on comparable asset sales, offers received, or a discounted cash flow model. For assets to be held and used, we review for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. We then
compare the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is
indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value of the asset, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model.
If an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. All recognized impairment losses, whether for assets to be held for sale or assets to be held and used,
are recorded as operating expenses. 
        There
are several estimates, assumptions and decisions in measuring impairments of long-lived assets. First, management must determine the usage of the asset. To the extent
management decides that an asset will be sold, it is more likely that an impairment may be recognized. Assets must be tested at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows exist. This means
that some assets must be grouped, and management has some discretion in the grouping of assets. Future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ materially
from our estimates. 
        On
a quarterly basis, we review our major long-lived assets to determine if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate a potential impairment. Potential
factors which could trigger an impairment include underperformance compared to historical or projected operating results, negative industry or economic factors, or significant changes to our operating
environment. We estimate future cash flows using our internal budgets. When appropriate, we discount future cash flows using a weighted-average cost of capital, developed using a standard capital
asset pricing model, based on guideline companies in our industry. 
        We
review indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill at least annually and between annual test dates in certain circumstances. We perform our annual impairment test for
indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of license rights, which are tested for impairment using
a discounted cash flow approach, and trademarks, which are tested for impairment using the relief-from-royalty method. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over
fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Goodwill for relevant reporting units is tested for impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis based on our budgeted future
results discounted using a weighted average cost of capital, developed using a standard capital asset pricing model based on guideline companies in our industry, and market indicators of terminal year
capitalization rates. As of the date we completed our 2011 goodwill impairment analysis, the estimated fair values of our reporting units with associated goodwill were substantially in excess of their
carrying values for all our reporting units with goodwill except for Railroad Pass, for which we wrote off $5 million of goodwill in 2011, and MGM China. As discussed in "Executive Overview" we
acquired a controlling interest in MGM China in June 2011. We recorded $2.8 billion of goodwill in connection with this acquisition. As of the date of our goodwill impairment test in the fourth
quarter, which was less than a year from our original valuation completed in connection with the acquisition, we determined that the fair value of our MGM China reporting unit is slightly in excess of
its carrying value, therefore no impairment was indicated. As discussed below, management makes significant judgments and estimates as part of these analyses. If future operating results for MGM China
do not meet our current expectations, we may be required to record an impairment charge related to the MGM China goodwill. 
62



 
        There
are several estimates inherent in evaluating these assets for impairment. In particular, future cash flow estimates are, by their nature, subjective and actual results may differ
materially from our estimates. In addition, the determination of capitalization rates and the discount rates used in the impairment tests are highly judgmental and dependent in large part on
expectations of future market conditions. 
        See
"Executive Overview" and "Results of Operations" for discussion of write-downs and impairments of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets. Other than mentioned
therein, we are not aware of events or circumstances through December 31, 2011 that would cause us to review any material long-lived assets, goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible
assets for impairment. 

 Impairment of Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates  

        We evaluate our investments in unconsolidated affiliates for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of our investment may have experienced an "other-than-temporary" decline in value. If such conditions exist, we compare the estimated fair value of the
investment to its carrying value to determine whether an impairment is indicated and determine whether the impairment is "other-than-temporary" based on our assessment of
relevant factors, including consideration of our intent and ability to retain our investment. We estimate fair value using a discounted cash flow analysis based on estimates of future cash flows and
market indicators of discount rates and terminal year capitalization rates. See "Executive Overview" and "Results of Operations" for discussion of impairment charges related to our investments in
CityCenter, Borgata and Silver Legacy. 

 Income Taxes  

        We recognize deferred tax assets, net of applicable reserves, related to net operating loss carryforwards and certain temporary
differences with a future tax benefit to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. Except for certain state deferred tax assets,
a foreign tax credit carryforward for U.S. income tax purposes and certain Macau deferred assets, we believe that it is more likely than not that our deferred
tax assets are fully realizable because of the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences. Given the negative impact of the U.S. economy on the results of our operations in the past
several years and our expectations that our recovery will be tempered by certain aspects of the current economic conditions such as weaknesses in employment conditions and the housing market, we no
longer rely on future domestic operating income in assessing the realizability of our domestic deferred tax assets and now rely only on the future reversal of existing domestic taxable temporary
differences. Since the future reversal of existing U.S. federal taxable temporary differences currently exceeds the future reversal of existing U.S. federal deductible temporary differences, we
continue to conclude that it is more likely than not that our U.S federal deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011, other than the foreign tax credit carryforward, are realizable. We
anticipate that the future reversal of our U.S. federal deductible temporary differences could exceed the future reversal of our U.S. federal taxable temporary differences as early as the first
quarter of 2012, in which case we would record a valuation allowance for such excess with a corresponding reduction of federal income tax benefit on our statement of operations. 
        Our
income tax returns are subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities. Positions taken in tax returns are sometimes subject to uncertainty
in the tax laws and may not ultimately be accepted by the IRS or other tax authorities. 
        We
assess our tax positions using a two-step process. A tax position is recognized if it meets a "more likely than not" threshold, and is measured at the largest amount of
benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. We review uncertain tax positions at each balance sheet date. Liabilities we record as a result of this analysis are recorded
separately from any current or deferred income tax accounts, and are classified as current ("Other accrued liabilities") or long-term ("Other long-term liabilities") based on 
63



 
the
time until expected payment. Additionally, we recognize accrued interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. 
        We
file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state and local jurisdictions, and foreign jurisdictions, although the taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions are not
material. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, we were no longer subject to examination of our U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns filed for years ended prior to 2005. The IRS completed its
examination of our consolidated federal income tax returns for the 2003 and 2004 tax years during 2010 and we paid $12 million in tax and $4 million in associated interest with respect
to adjustments to which we agreed. In addition, we submitted a protest to IRS Appeals of certain adjustments to which we do not agree. We expect the issues subject to appeal will be settled within the
next 12 months. During the fourth
quarter of 2010, the IRS opened an examination of our consolidated federal income tax returns for the 2005 through 2009 tax years. It is reasonably possible that the IRS will complete this examination
within the next 12 months and we may agree to certain adjustments and protest others. 
        During
the first quarter of 2011, the IRS opened audits of the 2007 through 2008 tax years of CityCenter Holdings LLC, an unconsolidated affiliate treated as a partnership for
income tax purposes and the 2008 through 2009 tax years of MGM Grand Detroit LLC, a subsidiary treated as a partnership for income tax purposes. It is reasonably possible that the IRS will
complete these examinations within the next 12 months and we may agree to certain adjustments and protest others. 
        We
reached settlement during 2010 with IRS Appeals with respect to the audit of the 2004 through 2006 tax years of MGM Grand Detroit, LLC. At issue was the tax treatment of
payments made under an agreement to develop, own and operate a hotel casino in the City of Detroit. We agreed to pay $1 million in tax for such years as a result of this settlement. 
        During
the fourth quarter of 2010, a tentative settlement was reached with IRS Appeals with respect to the audit of the 2003 and 2004 tax years of a cost method investee of ours that is
treated as a partnership for income tax purposes. The adjustments to which we agreed in such tentative settlement will be included in any settlement that we may reach with respect to the 2003 and 2004
examination of our consolidated federal income tax return. The IRS is currently auditing the 2005 through 2009 tax years of this investee. It is reasonably possible that the IRS will complete these
examinations within the next 12 months and we may agree to certain adjustments and protest others. 
        The
IRS closed during 2010 its examination of the federal income tax return of Mandalay Resort Group for the pre-acquisition year ended April 25, 2005 and issued a
"No-Change Letter." The statutes of limitations for assessing tax for all Mandalay Resort Group pre-acquisition years are now closed. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, other than the exceptions noted below, we were no longer subject to examination of our various state and local tax returns filed for years ended prior to
2007. The state of Illinois during 2010 initiated an audit of our Illinois combined returns for the 2006 and 2007 tax years. We expect that this audit will close and all issues will be settled in the
next 12 months. The state of New Jersey began audit procedures during 2010 of a cost method investee of ours for the 2003 through 2006 tax years. No other state or local income tax returns of
ours are currently under exam. 

 Stock-based Compensation  

        We account for stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs") measuring fair value using the Black-Scholes model. For restricted
stock units, compensation expense is calculated based on the fair market value of our stock on the date of grant. There are several management assumptions required to determine the inputs into the
Black-Scholes model. Our volatility and expected term assumptions can significantly affect the fair value of stock options and SARs. The extent of the impact will depend, in part, on the extent of
awards in any given year. 
64



 
         2005 Omnibus Incentive Plan. In 2011, we granted 3.5 million SARs with a total fair value of $19 million. In 2010, we granted
3.8 million SARs with a total fair value of $27 million. In 2009, we granted 6.8 million SARs with a total fair value of $37 million. 
        For
2011 awards, a 10% change in the volatility assumption (72% for 2011; for sensitivity analysis, volatility was assumed to be 65% and 79%) would have resulted in a
$1.5 million, or 8%, change in fair value. A 10% change in the expected term assumption (4.9 years for 2011; for sensitivity analysis, expected term was assumed to be 4.4 years
and 5.4 years) would have resulted in a $1 million, or 4%, change in fair value. These changes in fair value would have been recognized over the four year vesting period of such awards.
It should be noted that a change in the expected term would cause other changes, since the risk-free rate and volatility assumptions are specific to the term; we did not attempt to adjust
those assumptions in performing the sensitivity analysis above. 
         MGM China Share Option Plan. In 2011, MGM China granted 19.3 million stock options with a total fair value of $24 million. For 2011
awards, a 10% change in the volatility assumption (60% for 2011; for sensitivity analysis, volatility was assumed to be 54% and 66%) would have resulted in a $1.8 million, or 7%, change in fair
value. A 10% change in the expected term assumption (8 years for 2011; for sensitivity analysis, expected term was assumed to be 7.2 years and 8.8 years) would have resulted in a
$1 million, or 4%, change in fair value. These changes in fair value would have been recognized over the four year vesting period of such awards. It should be noted that a change in the
expected term would cause other changes, since the risk-free rate is specific to the term; we did not attempt to adjust those assumptions in performing the sensitivity analysis above. 

 Recently Issued Accounting Standards  

        Certain amendments to Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 820, "Fair Value Measurements," will become effective for us for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011. Such amendments included a consistent definition of fair value, enhanced disclosure requirements for "Level 3" fair value adjustments and other
changes to required disclosures. We will comply with the disclosure enhancements of this amendment when the amendment becomes effective. We do not expect this amendment to have a material effect on
our financial statements. 
        In
June 2011, ASC 220, "Comprehensive Income," was amended and will become effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, including retrospective adjustment.
Such amendments allow us two options for the presentation of comprehensive income. Under either option, we are required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each
component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. As a result of the amendment, the option to present the
components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity is eliminated. We will comply with the disclosure enhancements of this amendment when the amendment
becomes effective. We do not expect this amendment to have a material effect on our financial statements. 
        In
September 2011, ASC 350, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Others," was amended to simplify the assessment of goodwill impairment and will become effective for us for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2011. The amended guidance allows us to do an initial qualitative assessment of relative events and circumstances to determine if fair value of a reporting unit is more
likely than not less than its carrying value, prior to performing the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. We will comply with the disclosure enhancements of this amendment when
the amendment becomes effective. We do not expect this amendment to have a material effect on our financial statements. 
 Market Risk  
        In addition to the inherent risks associated with our normal operations, we are also exposed to additional market risks. Market risk is
the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and 
65



 
prices,
such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to market risk is interest rate risk associated with our variable rate long-term debt. We attempt
to limit our exposure to interest rate risk by managing the mix of our long-term fixed rate borrowings and short-term borrowings under our bank credit facilities. A change in
interest rates generally does not have an impact upon our future earnings and cash flow for fixed-rate debt instruments. As fixed-rate debt matures, however, and if additional
debt is acquired to fund the debt repayment, future earnings and cash flow may be affected by changes in interest rates. This effect would be realized in the periods subsequent to the periods when the
debt matures. We do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes and do not enter into derivative transactions that would be considered speculative positions. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, long-term variable rate borrowings represented approximately 28% of our total borrowings. Assuming a 100 basis-point increase in LIBOR over
the 2% floor specified in our senior credit facility, our annual interest cost would change by approximately $33 million based on gross amounts outstanding at December 31, 2011. Assuming
a 100 basis-point increase in HIBOR for the MGM Grand Paradise credit facility, our annual interest cost would change by approximately $6 million based on amounts outstanding at
December 31, 2011. The following table provides additional information about our gross long-term debt subject to changes in interest rates: 


































 
 
Debt maturing in, 
 
 
 


 
 
Fair Value
December 31,
2011 
 


 
 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
 
2016 
 
Thereafter 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(In millions)
 


 Fixed rate
 
$
535
 
$
1,362
 
$
1,158
 
$
2,325
 
$
1,476
 
$
2,918
 
$
9,774
 
$
10,017
 


 Average interest rate
 
 
6.8%
 
 
10.3%
 
 
8.4%
 
 
5.1%
 
 
8.2%
 
 
9.7%
 
 
8.1%
 
 
 
 


 Variable rate
 
$
28
 
$
83
 
$
3,407
 
$
331
 
$
-
 
$
-
 
$
3,849
 
$
3,692
 


 Average interest rate
 
 
3.2%
 
 
3.2%
 
 
6.9%
 
 
3.2%
 
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 
 
6.5%
 
 
 
 




66




 










 
    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
        We incorporate by reference the information appearing under "Market Risk" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. 
 
    ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     
        Our Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, including the Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm's Report thereon, referred to in Item 15(a)(1) of this Form 10-K, are included at pages 84-142 of this Form 10-K. 
 
    ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE     
        None.  
 
    ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     
 Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        Our Chief Executive Officer (principal executive officer) and Chief Financial Officer (principal financial officer) have concluded that
our disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of December 31, 2011 to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the Company's reports under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and regulations and to provide that such information is
accumulated and communicated to management to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures. This conclusion is based on an evaluation as required by Rule 13a- 15(e) under the Exchange
Act conducted under the supervision and participation of the principal executive officer and principal financial officer along with company management. 
 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
        Except as noted below, there were no other changes in our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
        During
the fourth quarter of 2011, we completed the transition of certain information technology processes and controls to a third-party service provider. The outsourced processes and
controls primarily include the monitoring of database and system performance, servers, networks, and storage. In addition, the third party is providing help desk support, systems access and security
and disaster recovery services. 
 Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
        Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, referred to in Item 15(a)(1) of this
Form 10-K, is included at page 82 of this Form 10-K. 
 Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
        The Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's Attestation Report on our internal control over financial reporting referred to in
Item 15(a)(1) of this Form 10-K, is included at page 83 of this Form 10-K.  
 
    ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION     
        None. 
67



 
 
 
  PART III     
 
    ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE     
        We incorporate by reference the information appearing under "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Item 1 of this
Form 10-K and under "Election of Directors" and "Corporate Governance" in our definitive Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which we expect to file with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or before April 30, 2012 (the "Proxy Statement").  
 
    ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION     
        We incorporate by reference the information appearing under "Executive and Director Compensation and Other Information" and "Corporate
Governance — Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," and "Compensation Committee Report" in the Proxy Statement.  
 
    ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS     
        We incorporate by reference the information appearing under "Principal Stockholders" and "Election of Directors" in the Proxy
Statement. 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  
        The following table includes information about our equity compensation plans at December 31, 2011: 



















 
 
Securities to be issued
upon exercise of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights 
 
Weighted average
exercise price of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights 
 
Securities available for
future issuance under
equity compensation
plans 
 


 
 
(In thousands, except per share data)
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders (1)
 
 
31,501
 
$
20.18
 
 
8,020
 


 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 






(1)As
of December 31, 2011 we had 1 million restricted stock units outstanding that do not have an exercise price; therefore, the weighted
average per share exercise price only relates to outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights. 

 
    ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE     
        We incorporate by reference the information appearing under "Transactions with Related Persons" and "Corporate Governance" in the Proxy
Statement.  
 
    ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES     
        We incorporate by reference the information appearing under "Selection of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in the Proxy
Statement. 
68



 
 
 
  PART IV     
 
    ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.     











(a)(1).
 
 Financial Statements.



 
 
Included in Part II of this Report:


 
 
 Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting


 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting


 
 
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Consolidated Financial Statements


 
 
 Consolidated Balance Sheets — December 31, 2011 and 2010


 
 
 Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Operations


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


 
 
 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity


 
 
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


 (a)(2).
 
 Financial Statement Schedule.


 
 
 Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009


 
 
 Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts




        We have omitted schedules other than the one listed above because they are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is
shown in the financial statements or notes to the financial statements. 
69



 
(a)(3).  Exhibits.  













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
3(1)
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, dated June 14, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9,
2011).



 
 
3(2)
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, effective December 14, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 20,
2010).



 
 
4.1(1)
 
Indenture dated July 21, 1993, by and between Mandalay Resort Group ("Mandalay") and First Interstate Bank of Nevada, N.A., as Trustee with respect to $150 million aggregate principal amount of 7.625% Senior
Subordinated Debentures due 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to Circus Circus Enterprises, Inc.'s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 21, 1993).



 
 
4.1(2)
 
Indenture, dated February 1, 1996, by and between Mandalay and First Interstate Bank of Nevada, N.A., as Trustee (the "Mandalay February 1996 Indenture") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(b) to
Mandalay's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 13, 1996).



 
 
4.1(3)
 
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1996, by and between Mandalay and Wells Fargo Bank (Colorado), N.A., (successor to First Interstate Bank of Nevada, N.A.), as Trustee, to the Mandalay February
1996 Indenture, with respect to $150 million aggregate principal amount of 6.70% Senior Notes due 2096 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c) to Mandalay's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 31,
1996 (the "Mandalay October 1996 10-Q")).



 
 
4.1(4)
 
6.70% Senior Notes due February 15, 2096 in the principal amount of $150,000,000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to the Mandalay October 1996 10-Q).



 
 
4.1(5)
 
Indenture, dated November 15, 1996, by and between Mandalay and Wells Fargo Bank (Colorado), N.A., as Trustee (the "Mandalay November 1996 Indenture") (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(e) to the
Mandalay October 1996 10-Q).



 
 
4.1(6)
 
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1996, to the Mandalay November 1996 Indenture, with respect to $150 million aggregate principal amount of 7.0% Senior Notes due 2036 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4(f) to the Mandalay October 1996 10-Q).



 
 
4.1(7)
 
7.0% Senior Notes due February 15, 2036, in the principal amount of $150,000,000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(g) to the Mandalay October 1996 10-Q).



 
 
4.1(8)
 
Indenture dated as of March 21, 2003 by and among Mandalay and The Bank of New York with respect to $400 million aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2033
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.44 to Mandalay's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2003).



 
 
4.1(9)
 
First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 26, 2004, relating to Mandalay's Floating Rate Senior Convertible Debentures due 2033 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to Mandalay's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on July 26, 2004).




70



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
4.1(10)
 
Indenture dated as of February 27, 2004, among the Company, as issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors, as guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, with respect to $525 million 5.875% Senior Notes
due 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 27, 2004).



 
 
4.1 (11)
 
Indenture dated as of March 23, 2004, among the Company, as issuer, the Subsidiary Guarantors, as guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, with respect to the $300 million 5.875% Notes due
2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004).



 
 
4.1(12)
 
Indenture dated as of August 25, 2004, among the Company, as issuer, certain subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, with respect to $550 million 6.75%
Senior Notes due 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 25, 2004).



 
 
4.1(13)
 
Indenture, dated June 20, 2005, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625% Senior Notes due
2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 22, 2005).



 
 
4.1(14)
 
Supplemental Indenture, dated September 9, 2005, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.625%
Senior Notes due 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 13, 2005).



 
 
4.1(15)
 
Indenture, dated April 5, 2006, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% Senior Notes due
2013 and $250 million original principal amount of 6.875% Senior Notes due 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 7, 2006).



 
 
4.1(16)
 
Indenture dated as of December 21, 2006, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2006 (the "December 2006 8-K")).



 
 
4.1(17)
 
Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 21, 2006, by and among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $750 million aggregate principal
amount of 7.625% Senior Notes due 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the December 2006 8-K).



 
 
4.1(18)
 
Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 17, 2007 among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $750 million aggregate principal amount of
7.5% Senior Notes due 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 17, 2007).



 
 
4.1(19)
 
Indenture dated as of November 14, 2008, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $750 million aggregate principal amount of 13% Senior
Secured Notes due 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 20, 2008).




71



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
4.1(20)
 
Security Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2008, between New York-New York Hotel & Casino, LLC, and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 20, 2008).



 
 
4.1(21)
 
Pledge Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2008, among the Company, New PRMA Las Vegas Inc., and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on November 20, 2008).



 
 
4.1(22)
 
Indenture, dated as of May 19, 2009, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $650 million aggregate principal amount of 10.375% Senior
Secured Notes due May 2014 and $850 million aggregate principal amount of 11.125% Senior Secured Notes due November 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 22,
2009).



 
 
4.1(23)
 
Security Agreement, dated as of May 19, 2009, among Bellagio, LLC, The Mirage Casino-Hotel and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on May 22, 2009).



 
 
4.1(24)
 
Pledge Agreement, dated as of May 19, 2009, between Mirage Resorts, Incorporated and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on May 22, 2009).



 
 
4.1(25)
 
First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 15, 2009, by and among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $750 million aggregate principal
amount of 13% Senior Secured Notes due 2013 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 19, 2009).



 
 
4.1(26)
 
Indenture, dated as of September 22, 2009, among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, and U.S. Bank National Association, with respect to $475 million aggregate principal amount of 11.375%
Senior Notes due 2018 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 25, 2009).



 
 
4.1(27)
 
Indenture dated as of March 16, 2010, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto, and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee with respect to $845 million aggregate principal amount of 9%
Senior Secured Notes due 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 14, 2010 (the "April 14, 2010 8-K")).



 
 
4.1(28)
 
Security Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2010, among MGM Grand Hotel, LLC, and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the April 14, 2010 8-K).



 
 
4.1(29)
 
Pledge Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2010, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the April 14, 2010 8-K).



 
 
4.1(30)
 
Indenture dated as of April 10, 2010, among the Company, as issuer, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee with respect to $1.15 billion aggregate principal
amount of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 22, 2010 (the "April 22, 2010 8-K")).




72



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
4.1(31)
 
Indenture dated as of October 28, 2010, among the Company, as issuer, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and U.S. Bank National Association as Trustee with respect to $500 million aggregate principal
amount of 10% Senior Notes due 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 29, 2010).



 
 
4.1(32)
 
Indenture, dated as of June 17, 2011, among the Company, the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on June 20, 2011).



 
 
4.2(1)
 
Guarantee (Mandalay Resort Group 7.625% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013), dated as of April 25, 2005, by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, in favor of The Bank of New York, as trustee for
the benefit of the holders of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture referred to therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2005 (the
"September 2005 10-Q")).



 
 
4.2(2)
 
Guarantee (Mandalay Resort Group 6.70% Senior Notes due 2096), dated as of April 25, 2005, by the Company certain subsidiaries of the Company, in favor of The Bank of New York, as successor in interest to First
Interstate Bank of Nevada, N.A., as trustee for the benefit of the holders of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture referred to therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the September 2005 10-Q).



 
 
4.2(3)
 
Guarantee (Mandalay Resort Group 7.0% Senior Notes due 2036), dated as of April 25, 2005, by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, in favor of The Bank of New York, as trustee for the benefit of
the holders of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture referred to therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the September 2005 10-Q).



 
 
4.2(4)
 
Guarantee (Mandalay Resort Group Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2033), dated as of April 25, 2005, by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, in favor of The Bank of New York, as
trustee for the benefit of the holders of the Notes pursuant to the Indenture referred to therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the September 2005 10-Q).



 
 
10.1(1)
 
Sixth Amended and Restated Loan Agreement, dated as of March 16, 2010, by and among the Company, as borrower, MGM Grand Detroit, LLC, as co-borrower, the Lenders named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as
Administrative Agent and Banc of America Securities LLC, RBS Securities, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Barclays Capital, BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Citibank North America, Inc., Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corporation, Bank of Scotland PLC, Commerzbank, Wachovia Bank, National Association, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and UBS Securities LLC, as Joint Lead Arrangers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to
the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 22, 2010).



 
 
10.1(2)
 
Sponsor Contribution Agreement, dated October 31, 2008, by and among the Company, as sponsor, CityCenter Holdings, LLC, as borrower, and Bank of America, N.A., as Collateral Agent (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 6, 2008).



 
 
10.1(3)
 
Amendment No. 1 to Sponsor Contribution Agreement, dated April 29, 2009, among the Company, CityCenter Holdings, LLC and Bank of America, N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 5, 2009).




73



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
10.1(4)
 
Amended and Restated Sponsor Completion Guarantee, dated April 29, 2009, among the Company and Bank of America, N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on May 5, 2009).



 
 
10.1(5)
 
Second Amended and Restated Sponsor Completion Guarantee, dated January 21, 2011, among the Company, Bank of America, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 21, 2010).



 
 
10.1(6)
 
Confirmation for Base Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 15, 2010, between the Company and Bank of America N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the April 22, 2010 8-K).



 
 
10.1(7)
 
Confirmation for Base Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 15, 2010, between the Company and Barclays Bank PLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the April 22, 2010
8-K).



 
 
10.1(8)
 
Confirmation for Base Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 15, 2010, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
April 22, 2010 8-K).



 
 
10.1(9)
 
Confirmation for Base Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 15, 2010, between the Company and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the April 22, 2010
8-K).



 
 
10.1(10)
 
Confirmation for Additional Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 16, 2010, between the Company and Bank of America N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the April 22, 2010
8-K).



 
 
10.1(11)
 
Confirmation for Additional Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 16, 2010, between the Company and Barclays Bank PLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the April 22, 2010
8-K).



 
 
10.1(12)
 
Confirmation for Additional Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 16, 2010, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, London Branch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to
the April 22, 2010 8-K).



 
 
10.1(13)
 
Confirmation for Additional Capped Call Transaction, dated as of April 16, 2010, between the Company and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the April 22, 2010
8-K).



 
 
10.1(14)
 
Subconcession Contract for the Exploitation of Games Fortune and Chance or Other Games in Casino in the Special Administrative Region of Macau, dated April 19, 2005, between Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A.,
 as concessionaire, and MGM Grand Paradise S.A., as subconcessionaire (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
10.1(15)
 
Land Concession Agreement, dated as of April 18, 2005, relating to the MGM Macau resort and casino between the Special Administrative Region of Macau and MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).




74



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
10.1(16)
 
Credit Facility Agreement, dated July 27, 2010, by and among MGM Grand Paradise, S.A., the guarantors named therein, Bank of America, N.A., Bank of China Limited, Macau Branch, Industrial and Commercial Bank of
China (Macau) Limited, Banco Nacional Ultramarino, S.A., Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank Hong Kong Branch, BNP PARIBAS Hong Kong Branch, Commerzbank AG Hong Kong Branch, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC, Singapore Branch,
as Mandated Lead Arrangers, Banco Comercial Português, S.A., Macau Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, as Lead Arrangers, Tai Fung Bank Limited, Banco Comercial
de Macau, S.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia, Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, as Senior Managers, with Bank of America, N.A., Hong Kong Branch, as Facility Agent and Banco National Ultamarino, S.A., as Security Agent (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
10.1(17)
 
Amendment No. 1, dated July 22, 2011 to Stipulation of Settlement in the Matter of the Reopened 2005 Casino License Hearing of Marina District Development Company, LLC ("MDDC") dated March 11, 2010,
 by and among the Company, the State of New Jersey—Department of Law and Public Safety—Division of Gaming Enforcement, Boyd Gaming Corporation and MDDC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
10.2(1)
 
Lease, dated August 3, 1977, by and between B&D Properties, Inc., as lessor, and Mandalay, as lessee; Amendment of Lease, dated May 6, 1983 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(h) to
Mandalay's Registration Statement (No. 2-85794) on Form S-1).



 
 
10.2(2)
 
Lease by and between Robert Lewis Uccelli, guardian, as lessor, and Nevada Greens, a limited partnership, William N. Pennington, as trustee, and William G. Bennett, as trustee, and related Assignment of Lease
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) to Mandalay's Registration Statement (No. 33-4475) on Form S-1).



 
 
10.2(3)
 
Public Trust Tidelands Lease, dated February 4, 1999, between the State of Mississippi and Beau Rivage Resorts, Inc. (without exhibits) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.73 to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K of MRI for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999).



 
 
*10.3(1)
 
Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(1) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996).



 
 
*10.3(2)
 
1997 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan, Amended and Restated February 2, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarter report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
June 30, 2004).



 
 
*10.3(3)
 
Amendment to the Company's 1997 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 13, 2007).



 
 
*10.3(4)
 
Amended and Restated 2005 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 6, 2009).




75



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
*10.3(5)
 
Amended and Restated Annual Performance-Based Incentive Plan for Executive Officers, giving effect to amendment approved by the Company's shareholders on May 9, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to
the Company's 2006 Proxy Statement).



 
 
*10.3(6)
 
Deferred Compensation Plan II, dated as of December 30, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 10, 2005 (the "January 2005
8-K").



 
 
*10.3(7)
 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan II, dated as of December 30, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the January 2005 8-K).



 
 
*10.3(8)
 
Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan II, dated as of December 21, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(9) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2005).



 
 
*10.3(9)
 
Amendment No. 1 to the Deferred Compensation Plan II, dated as of July 10, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(11) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2007 (the "2007 10-K")).



 
 
*10.3(10)
 
Amendment No. 1 to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan II, dated as of July 10, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(12) to the 2007 10-K).



 
 
*10.3(11)
 
Amendment No. 2 to the Deferred Compensation Plan II, dated as of October 15, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(13) to the 2007 10-K).



 
 
*10.3(12)
 
Amendment No. 2 to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan II, dated as of October 15, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(14) to the 2007 10-K).



 
 
*10.3(13)
 
Amendment No. 1 to the Deferred Compensation Plan II, dated as of November 4, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 7,
2008).



 
 
*10.3(14)
 
Amendment No. 1 to the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan II, dated as of November 4, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
November 7, 2008).



 
 
*10.3(15)
 
Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement of the Company (effective for awards to named executive officers prior to November 2011) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(15) of the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).



 
 
*10.3(16)
 
Restricted Stock Units Agreement of the Company (performance vesting) (effective for awards to named executive officers prior to November 2011) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(16) of the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).



 
 
*10.3(17)
 
Restricted Stock Units Agreement of the Company (time vesting) (effective for awards to named executive officers prior to November 2011) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3(17) of the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).



 
 
*10.3(18)
 
Employment Agreement, dated December 13, 2010, between the Company and Robert H. Baldwin (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
December 20, 2010.



 
 
*10.3(19)
 
Employment Agreement, dated September 16, 2005, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
September 22, 2005 (the "September 22, 2005 8-K")).




76



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
*10.3(20)
 
Employment Agreement, dated December 3, 2007, between the Company and Daniel J. D'Arrigo (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 7,
2007).



 
 
*10.3(21)
 
Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on January 7, 2009).



 
 
*10.3(22)
 
Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, between the Company and Daniel J. D'Arrigo (incorporated by reference to the January 7, 2009 8-K).



 
 
*10.3(23)
 
Employment Agreement, effective as of April 6, 2009, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Amendment No. 1 to Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on April 6, 2009).



 
 
*10.3(24)
 
Employment Agreement, effective as of August 3, 2009, between the Company and Corey Sanders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
September 17, 2010).



 
 
*10.3(25)
 
MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Time-Vesting Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated April 6, 2009, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4
to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(26)
 
MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Time- and Price-Vesting Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated April 6, 2009, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(27)
 
MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Time- and Price-Vesting Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated April 6, 2009, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(28)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(29)
 
MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Amended and Restated Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated April 8, 2011, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(30)
 
MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Units Agreement, dated April 8, 2011, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(31)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).




77



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
*10.3(32)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and James J. Murren (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to
the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(33)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Daniel J. D'Arrigo (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(34)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Restricted Stock Units Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Daniel J. D'Arrigo (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(35)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Daniel J. D'Arrigo (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(36)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Daniel J. D'Arrigo (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(37)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Robert H. Baldwin (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.16 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(38)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Robert H. Baldwin (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.17 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(39)
 
MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Amended and Restated Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated April 8, 2011, between the Company and Robert H. Baldwin (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.18 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(40)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Corey Sanders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to
the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(41)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Corey Sanders (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.20 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(42)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Restricted Stock Units Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Corey Sanders (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated filed on August 9, 2011).




78



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
*10.3(43)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and Corey Sanders (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.22 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(44)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and William J. Hornbuckle (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(45)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and William J. Hornbuckle (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.24 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(46)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Restricted Stock Units Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and William J. Hornbuckle (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(47)
 
Amendment to MGM Resorts International (formerly MGM MIRAGE) Nonqualified Stock Option Agreements, dated June 30, 2011, between the Company and William J. Hornbuckle (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.26 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(48)
 
Form of Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement of the Company (non-employee director), effective for awards granted in November 2011 and thereafter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(49)
 
Form of Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right Agreement of the Company (employee), effective for awards granted in November 2011 and thereafter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(50)
 
Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement of the Company (time vesting), effective for awards granted in November 2011 and thereafter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(51)
 
Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement of the Company (performance vesting), effective for awards granted in November 2011 and thereafter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(52)
 
Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement of the Company (non-employee director), effective for awards granted in November 2011 and thereafter (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company's Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q filed on November 7, 2011).



 
 
*10.3(53)
 
Employment Agreement, effective as of September 14, 2010, between the Company and William Hornbuckle (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on
November 7, 2011).




79



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
10.4(1)
 
Second Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement of Marina District Development Company, dated as of August 31, 2000, between MAC, CORP. and Boyd Atlantic City, Inc. (without exhibits) (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the September 2000 10-Q).



 
 
10.4(2)
 
Contribution and Adoption Agreement, dated as of December 13, 2000, among Marina District Development Holding Co., LLC, MAC, CORP. and Boyd Atlantic City, Inc. (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.4(15) to the 2000 10-K).



 
 
10.4(3)
 
Amended and Restated Agreement of Joint Venture of Circus and Eldorado Joint Venture by and between Eldorado Limited Liability Company and Galleon, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the
Form S-4 Registration Statement of Circus and Eldorado Joint Venture and Silver Legacy Capital Corp.—Commission File No. 333-87202).



 
 
10.4(4)
 
Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement, dated as of June 25, 2002, between Nevada Landing Partnership and RBG, L.P. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Mandalay's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2004.)



 
 
10.4(5)
 
Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement, dated as of April 25, 2005, by and among Nevada Landing Partnership, an Illinois general partnership, and RBG, L.P., an Illinois limited
partnership (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4(5) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).



 
 
10.4(6)
 
Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of CityCenter Holdings, LLC, dated April 29, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
filed May 5, 2009).



 
 
10.4(7)
 
Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement of IKM JV, LLC, dated September 10, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
September 13, 2007).



 
 
10.4(8)
 
Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement, dated May 13, 2011, by and among Nevada Landing Partnership, an Illinois general partnership, and RBG, L.P., an Illinois limited
partnership (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2011).



 
 
10.5(1)
 
Revised Development Agreement among the City of Detroit, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit and MGM Grand Detroit, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Company's
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2002).



 
 
10.5(2)
 
Revised Development Agreement effective August 2, 2002, by and among the City of Detroit, The Economic Development Corporation of the City of Detroit and Detroit Entertainment, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.61 of Mandalay's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2005).



 
 
10.5(3)
 
Stipulation of Settlement in the Matter of the Reopened 2005 Casino License Hearing of Marina District Development Company, LLC ("MDDC") dated March 11, 2010, by and among the State of New
Jersey—Department of Law and Public Safety—Division of Gaming Enforcement, the Company, Boyd Gaming Corporation, Boyd Atlantic City, Inc., Marina District Development Holding Co., LLC and MDDC (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.2 to Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2010).




80



 













 
 
Exhibit
Number



 
Description





 
 
10.6(1)
 
Company Stock Purchase and Support Agreement, dated August 21, 2007, by and between the Company and Infinity World Investments, LLC (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report
on Form 8-K filed August 27, 2007).



 
 
10.6(2)
 
Amendment No. 1, dated October 17, 2007, to the Company Stock Purchase and Support Agreement by and between the Company and Infinity World Investments, LLC (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 23, 2007).



 
 
21
 
List of subsidiaries of the Company.



 
 
23
 
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.



 
 
31.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to Rule 13a — 14(a) and Rule 15d — 14(a).



 
 
31.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Periodic Report Pursuant to Rule 13a — 14(a) and Rule 15d — 14(a).


**
 
32.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.


**
 
32.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.



 
 
99.1
 
Description of our Operating Resorts.



 
 
99.2
 
Description of Regulation and Licensing.



 
 
101***
 
The following information from the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 formatted in eXtensible Business Reporting Language: (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010; (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009; (iv) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009; (v) Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and (vi) Financial Statement Schedule.





*Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
**Exhibits 32.1
and 32.2 shall not be deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, nor shall they be deemed incorporated by reference in
any filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any
general incorporation language in any filings.
***This
exhibit is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, is deemed not filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 
81




 










 
 
  MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT  ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING     

 Management's Responsibilities  

        Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
Sections 13a- 15(f) and 15d- 15(f) of the Exchange Act) for MGM Resorts International and subsidiaries (the "Company"). 

 Objective of Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

        In establishing adequate internal control over financial reporting, management has developed and maintained a system of internal
control, policies and procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information contained in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and other information presented in this
annual report is reliable, does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact, and fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the Company as of and for the periods presented in this annual report. These include controls and procedures designed to ensure that this information is accumulated and
communicated to the Company's management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to all timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Significant
elements of the Company's internal control over financial reporting include, for example:


•Hiring skilled accounting personnel and training them appropriately; •Written accounting policies; •Written documentation of accounting systems and procedures; •Segregation of incompatible duties; 
•Internal audit function to monitor the effectiveness of the system of internal control; •Oversight by an independent Audit
Committee of the Board of Directors. 


 Management's Evaluation  

        Management, with the participation of the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has evaluated the
Company's internal control over financial reporting using the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission. In making its assessment of changes in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, the Company has excluded the MGM China operations because these
operations were acquired in a business combination on June 3, 2011. These operations represent approximately 33% of the Company's total assets at December 31, 2011 and approximately 20%
of its total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. The Company intends to disclose any material changes in internal control over financial reporting with respect to the MGM China
operations in the first annual assessment of internal control over financial reporting in which it is required to include MGM China. 
        Based
on its evaluation as of December 31, 2011, management believes that the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective in achieving the objectives
described above. 

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

        Deloitte & Touche LLP audited the Company's consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2011 and issued their report thereon, which is included in this annual report. Deloitte & Touche LLP has also issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the
Company's internal control over financial reporting and such report is also included in this annual report. 
82



 
 
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of MGM Resorts International 
        We
have audited the internal control over financial reporting of MGM Resorts International and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. As described in Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at MGM China Holdings Limited, which was acquired on June 3, 2011 and whose financial
statements constitute 78.4% and 32.6% of net and total assets, respectively, 19.6% of revenues, and 7.4% of net income of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2011. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at MGM China Holdings Limited. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Annual Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
        We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or
persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements. 
        Because
of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material
misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to
future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        In
our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in
Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
        We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011. Our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement
schedule. 
/s/
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP 
Las
Vegas, Nevada
February 29,
2012 
83



 
 
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
To
the Board of Directors and Stockholders
of MGM Resorts International 
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of MGM Resorts International and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule of Valuation and Qualifying Accounts included in Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of MGM Resorts International and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 
        We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 29, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 
/s/
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP 
Las
Vegas, Nevada
February 29,
2012 
84




 










 
    MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands, except share data)     
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


  ASSETS
 


 Current assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
1,865,913
 
$
498,964
 


 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
491,730
 
 
321,894
 


 Inventories
 
 
112,735
 
 
96,392
 


 Income tax receivable
 
 
-
 
 
175,982
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
91,060
 
 
110,092
 


 Prepaid expenses and other
 
 
251,282
 
 
252,321
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current assets
 
 
2,812,720
 
 
1,455,645
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 

14,866,644
 
 

14,554,350
 


 Other assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
1,635,572
 
 
1,923,155
 


 Goodwill
 
 
2,896,609
 
 
77,156
 


 Other intangible assets, net
 
 
5,048,117
 
 
342,804
 


 Other long-term assets, net
 
 
506,614
 
 
598,738
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other assets
 
 
10,086,912
 
 
2,941,853
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
27,766,276
 
$
18,951,848
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


  LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 


 Current liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts payable
 
$
170,994
 
$
167,084
 


 Income taxes payable
 
 
7,611
 
 
-
 


 Accrued interest on long-term debt
 
 
203,422
 
 
211,914
 


 Other accrued liabilities
 
 
1,362,737
 
 
867,223
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current liabilities
 
 
1,744,764
 
 
1,246,221
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
2,502,096
 
 
2,526,519
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
13,470,167
 
 
12,047,698
 


 Other long-term obligations
 
 
167,027
 
 
199,248
 


 Commitments and contingencies (Note 11)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common stock, $.01 par value: authorized 1,000,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding 488,834,773 and 488,513,351 shares
 
 
4,888
 
 
4,885
 


 Capital in excess of par value
 
 
4,094,323
 
 
4,060,826
 


 Retained earnings (accumulated deficit)
 
 
1,981,389
 
 
(1,133,248
)


 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
 
 
5,978
 
 
(301
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total MGM Resorts International stockholders' equity
 
 
6,086,578
 
 
2,932,162
 


 Noncontrolling interests
 
 
3,795,644
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
9,882,222
 
 
2,932,162
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
27,766,276
 
$
18,951,848
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
85




 










 
    MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)     



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Revenues
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Casino
 
$
4,002,985
 
$
2,479,695
 
$
2,650,059
 


 Rooms
 
 
1,547,765
 
 
1,370,054
 
 
1,385,196
 


 Food and beverage
 
 
1,425,428
 
 
1,339,174
 
 
1,362,325
 


 Entertainment
 
 
514,883
 
 
486,319
 
 
493,799
 


 Retail
 
 
204,806
 
 
194,891
 
 
207,260
 


 Other
 
 
485,661
 
 
459,926
 
 
478,263
 


 Reimbursed costs
 
 
351,207
 
 
359,470
 
 
99,379
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
8,532,735
 
 
6,689,529
 
 
6,676,281
 


 Less: Promotional allowances
 
 
(683,423
)
 
(633,528
)
 
(665,693
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
7,849,312
 
 
6,056,001
 
 
6,010,588
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Casino
 
 
2,515,279
 
 
1,422,531
 
 
1,491,943
 


 Rooms
 
 
485,751
 
 
423,073
 
 
427,169
 


 Food and beverage
 
 
829,018
 
 
774,443
 
 
775,018
 


 Entertainment
 
 
375,559
 
 
360,383
 
 
358,026
 


 Retail
 
 
124,063
 
 
120,593
 
 
134,851
 


 Other
 
 
345,484
 
 
333,817
 
 
284,919
 


 Reimbursed costs
 
 
351,207
 
 
359,470
 
 
99,379
 


 General and administrative
 
 
1,182,505
 
 
1,128,803
 
 
1,100,193
 


 Corporate expense
 
 
174,971
 
 
124,241
 
 
143,764
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
(316
)
 
4,247
 
 
53,013
 


 Property transactions, net
 
 
178,598
 
 
1,451,474
 
 
1,328,689
 


 Gain on MGM China transaction
 
 
(3,496,005
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
817,146
 
 
633,423
 
 
689,273
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
3,883,260
 
 
7,136,498
 
 
6,886,237
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
91,094
 
 
(78,434
)
 
(88,227
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
4,057,146
 
 
(1,158,931
)
 
(963,876
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-operating income (expense)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense, net
 
 
(1,086,832
)
 
(1,113,580
)
 
(775,431
)


 Non-operating items from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(119,013
)
 
(108,731
)
 
(47,127
)


 Other, net
 
 
(19,670
)
 
165,217
 
 
(226,159
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
(1,225,515
)
 
(1,057,094
)
 
(1,048,717
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
2,831,631
 
 
(2,216,025
)
 
(2,012,593
)


 Benefit for income taxes
 
 
403,313
 
 
778,628
 
 
720,911
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
3,234,944
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)


 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(120,307
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
$
3,114,637
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,291,682
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) per share of common stock attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
6.37
 
$
(3.19
)
$
(3.41
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
$
5.62
 
$
(3.19
)
$
(3.41
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
86




 










 
    MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)     



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
3,234,944
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,291,682
)


 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
817,146
 
 
633,423
 
 
689,273
 


 Amortization of debt discounts, premiums and issuance costs
 
 
93,800
 
 
87,983
 
 
50,852
 


 (Gain) loss on retirement of long-term debt
 
 
(717
)
 
(132,126
)
 
61,563
 


 Provision for doubtful accounts
 
 
39,093
 
 
29,832
 
 
54,074
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
39,707
 
 
34,988
 
 
36,571
 


 Business interruption insurance - lost profits
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(15,115
)


 Property transactions, net
 
 
178,598
 
 
1,451,474
 
 
1,328,689
 


 Gain on MGM China transaction
 
 
(3,496,005
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Convertible note investment impairment
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
175,690
 


 (Income) loss from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
27,919
 
 
190,659
 
 
188,178
 


 Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
60,801
 
 
92,706
 
 
93,886
 


 Change in deferred income taxes
 
 
(394,437
)
 
(634,082
)
 
(344,690
)


 Change in current assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts receivable
 
 
(155,043
)
 
(17,376
)
 
(121,088
)


 Inventories
 
 
(8,039
)
 
5,418
 
 
6,571
 


 Income taxes receivable and payable, net
 
 
183,649
 
 
197,986
 
 
(334,522
)


 Prepaid expenses and other
 
 
15,268
 
 
1,647
 
 
(17,427
)


 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 
 
32,924
 
 
11,208
 
 
37,158
 


 Business interruption insurance recoveries
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
16,391
 


 Other
 
 
5,518
 
 
(12,329
)
 
(26,458
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by operating activities
 
 
675,126
 
 
504,014
 
 
587,914
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital expenditures, net of construction payable
 
 
(301,244
)
 
(207,491
)
 
(136,850
)


 Proceeds from sale of Treasure Island, net
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
746,266
 


 Dispositions of property and equipment
 
 
348
 
 
77,601
 
 
22,291
 


 Acquisition of MGM China, net of cash paid
 
 
407,046
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(128,848
)
 
(553,000
)
 
(963,685
)


 Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates in excess of earnings
 
 
2,212
 
 
135,058
 
 
-
 


 Distributions from cost method investments
 
 
-
 
 
113,422
 
 
-
 


 Property damage insurance recoveries
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
7,186
 


 Investments in treasury securities- maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
(330,313
)
 
(149,999
)
 
-
 


 Proceeds from treasury securities- maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
330,130
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Other
 
 
(643
)
 
(1,670
)
 
(5,463
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(21,312
)
 
(586,079
)
 
(330,255
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net borrowings (repayments) under bank credit facilities – maturities of 90 days or less
 
 
(305,880
)
 
(1,886,079
)
 
(1,027,193
)


 Borrowings under bank credit facilities – maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
7,559,112
 
 
9,486,223
 
 
6,771,492
 


 Repayments under bank credit facilities – maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
(6,352,384
)
 
(10,807,860
)
 
(5,942,455
)


 Issuance of senior notes
 
 
311,415
 
 
2,489,485
 
 
1,921,751
 


 Retirement of senior notes
 
 
(493,816
)
 
(1,154,479
)
 
(1,176,452
)


 Debt issuance costs
 
 
-
 
 
(106,831
)
 
(112,055
)


 Issuance of common stock in public offering, net
 
 
-
 
 
588,456
 
 
1,104,418
 


 Capped call transactions
 
 
-
 
 
(81,478
)
 
-
 


 Repayment of Detroit Economic Development Corporation bonds
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(49,393
)


 Other
 
 
(6,525
)
 
(2,615
)
 
(1,363
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
711,922
 
 
(1,475,178
)
 
1,488,750
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effect of exchange rate on cash
 
 
1,213
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) for the period
 
 
1,366,949
 
 
(1,557,243
)
 
1,746,409
 


 Change in cash related to assets held for sale
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
14,154
 


 Balance, beginning of period
 
 
498,964
 
 
2,056,207
 
 
295,644
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of period
 
$
1,865,913
 
$
498,964
 
$
2,056,207
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Supplemental cash flow disclosures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest paid, net of amounts capitalized
 
$
1,001,982
 
$
1,020,040
 
$
807,523
 


 Federal, state and foreign income taxes paid, net of refunds
 
 
(172,018
)
 
(330,218
)
 
(53,863
)


 Non-cash investing and financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Increase (decrease) in investment in CityCenter related to change in completion guarantee liability
 
$
54,352
 
$
358,708
 
$
(55,000
)




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated
financial statements.  
87




 










 
    MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  For the Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands)     





































 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Retained
Earnings
(Accumulated
Deficit) 
 
Accumulated
Other
Comprehensive
Income (Loss) 
 
Total MGM
Resorts
Stockholders'
Equity 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Shares 
 
Par
Value 
 
Capital in
Excess of
Par Value 
 
Treasury
Stock 
 
Non-
controlling
Interests 
 
Total
Stockholders'
Equity 
 


 Balances, January 1, 2009, as previously reported
 
 
276,507
 
$
3,693
 
$
4,018,410
 
$
(3,355,963
)
$
3,365,122
 
$
(56,901
)
$
3,974,361
 
$
-
 
$
3,974,361
 


 Prior period adjustment (see Note 2)
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(66,383
)
 
-
 
 
(66,383
)
 
-
 
 
(66,383
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, January 1, 2009, as restated (see Note 2)
 
 
276,507
 
$
3,693
 
$
4,018,410
 
$
(3,355,963
)
$
3,298,739
 
$
(56,901
)
$
3,907,978
 
$
-
 
$
3,907,978
 


 Net loss
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,291,682
)
 
-
 
 
(1,291,682
)
 
-
 
 
(1,291,682
)


 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
532
 
 
532
 
 
-
 
 
532
 


 Reclass M resort convertible note valuation adjustment to current earnings
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
54,267
 
 
54,267
 
 
-
 
 
54,267
 


 Other comprehensive income from unconsolidated affiliate, net
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
165
 
 
165
 
 
-
 
 
165
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1,236,718
)
 
-
 
 
(1,236,718
)


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
43,050
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
43,050
 
 
-
 
 
43,050
 


 Change in excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(14,854
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(14,854
)
 
-
 
 
(14,854
)


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
164,450
 
 
717
 
 
(549,354
)
 
3,355,963
 
 
(1,702,908
)
 
-
 
 
1,104,418
 
 
-
 
 
1,104,418
 


 Issuance of common stock pursuant to stock-based compensation awards
 
 
265
 
 
2
 
 
(29
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(27
)
 
-
 
 
(27
)


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
202
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
202
 
 
-
 
 
202
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2009
 
 
441,222
 
 
4,412
 
 
3,497,425
 
 
-
 
 
304,149
 
 
(1,937
)
 
3,804,049
 
 
-
 
 
3,804,049
 


 Net loss
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
-
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
-
 
 
(1,437,397
)


 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
1,706
 
 
1,706
 
 
-
 
 
1,706
 


 Other comprehensive loss from unconsolidated affiliate, net
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(70
)
 
(70
)
 
-
 
 
(70
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive loss
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1,435,761
)
 
-
 
 
(1,435,761
)


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
40,247
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
40,247
 
 
-
 
 
40,247
 


 Change in excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(10,840
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(10,840
)
 
-
 
 
(10,840
)


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
47,035
 
 
470
 
 
587,986
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
588,456
 
 
-
 
 
588,456
 


 Issuance of common stock pursuant to stock-based compensation awards
 
 
256
 
 
3
 
 
(1,248
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,245
)
 
-
 
 
(1,245
)


 Capped call transactions
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(52,961
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(52,961
)
 
-
 
 
(52,961
)


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
217
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
217
 
 
-
 
 
217
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2010
 
 
488,513
 
 
4,885
 
 
4,060,826
 
 
-
 
 
(1,133,248
)
 
(301
)
 
2,932,162
 
 
-
 
 
2,932,162
 


 Net income
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
3,114,637
 
 
-
 
 
3,114,637
 
 
120,307
 
 
3,234,944
 


 Currency translation adjustment
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
6,316
 
 
6,316
 
 
5,376
 
 
11,692
 


 Other comprehensive loss from unconsolidated affiliate, net
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(37
)
 
(37
)
 
-
 
 
(37
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3,120,916
 
 
125,683
 
 
3,246,599
 


 MGM China acquisition
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
3,672,173
 
 
3,672,173
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
42,723
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
42,723
 
 
1,556
 
 
44,279
 


 Change in excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(8,042
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(8,042
)
 
-
 
 
(8,042
)


 Issuance of common stock
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Issuance of common stock pursuant to stock-based compensation awards
 
 
322
 
 
3
 
 
(1,330
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,327
)
 
-
 
 
(1,327
)


 Cash distributions to noncontrolling interest owners
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(3,768
)
 
(3,768
)


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
146
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
146
 
 
-
 
 
146
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2011
 
 
488,835
 
$
4,888
 
$
4,094,323
 
$
-
 
$
1,981,389
 
$
5,978
 
$
6,086,578
 
$
3,795,644
 
$
9,882,222
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
88




 










 
 
  MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     
 NOTE 1 — ORGANIZATION  
         Organization. MGM Resorts International (the "Company") is a Delaware corporation that acts largely as a holding company and, through wholly owned
subsidiaries, owns and/or operates casino resorts. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 23% of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock were owned by Tracinda Corporation, a
Nevada corporation wholly owned by Kirk Kerkorian. Tracinda Corporation has significant influence with respect to the election of directors and other matters, but it does not have the power to solely
determine these matters. The Company has two reportable segments:
wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. See Note 17 for additional information about the Company's segment information. 
        The
Company owns and operates the following casino resorts in Las Vegas, Nevada: Bellagio, MGM Grand Las Vegas (including The Signature), The Mirage, Mandalay Bay, Luxor, New
York-New York, Monte Carlo, Excalibur, and Circus Circus Las Vegas. Other Nevada operations include Circus Circus Reno, Gold Strike in Jean, and Railroad Pass in Henderson. The Company and
its local partners own and operate MGM Grand Detroit in Detroit, Michigan. The Company owns and operates two resorts in Mississippi: Beau Rivage in Biloxi and Gold Strike Tunica. The Company also owns
Shadow Creek, an exclusive world-class golf course located approximately ten miles north of its Las Vegas Strip resorts, Primm Valley Golf Club at the California/Nevada state line and Fallen Oak golf
course in Saucier, Mississippi. 
        The
Company owns 51% and has a controlling interest in MGM China Holdings Limited ("MGM China"), which owns MGM Grand Paradise, S.A. ("MGM Grand Paradise"), the Macau company that
owns the MGM Macau resort and casino and the related gaming subconcession and land concession. See Note 3 for additional information related to MGM China. 
        The
Company owns 50% of CityCenter, located between Bellagio and Monte Carlo. The other 50% of CityCenter is owned by Infinity World Development Corp ("Infinity World"), a wholly owned
subsidiary of Dubai World, a Dubai, United Arab Emirates government decree entity. CityCenter consists of Aria, a casino resort; Mandarin Oriental Las Vegas, a non-gaming boutique hotel;
Crystals, a retail, dining and entertainment district; and Vdara, a luxury condominium-hotel. In addition, CityCenter features residential units in the Residences at Mandarin Oriental and Veer. The
Company receives a management fee of 2% of revenues for the management of Aria and Vdara, and 5% of EBITDA (as defined in the agreements governing the Company's management of Aria and Vdara). In
addition, the Company receives an annual fee of $3 million for the management of Crystals. 
        The
Company has 50% interests in Grand Victoria and Silver Legacy. Grand Victoria is a riverboat casino in Elgin, Illinois; an affiliate of Hyatt Gaming owns the other 50% of Grand
Victoria and also operates the resort. Silver Legacy is located in Reno, adjacent to Circus Circus Reno, and the other 50% is owned by Eldorado LLC. See Note 6 for additional information
related to Silver Legacy. 
        MGM
Hospitality seeks to leverage the Company's management expertise and well-recognized brands through strategic partnerships and international expansion opportunities. The
Company has entered into management agreements for hotels in the Middle East, North Africa, India and China. 
        Borgata. The Company has a 50% economic interest in Borgata Hotel Casino & Spa ("Borgata") located on Renaissance Pointe in the Marina area of
Atlantic City, New Jersey. Boyd Gaming Corporation
("Boyd") owns the other 50% of Borgata and also operates the resort. The Company's interest is held in trust and currently offered for sale pursuant to the Company's settlement agreement with New
Jersey Department of Gaming Enforcement ("DGE"). In March 2010, the New Jersey Casino Control Commission ("CCC") approved the Company's settlement agreement with the DGE pursuant to which 
89



 
the
Company placed its 50% ownership interest in Borgata and related leased land in Atlantic City into a divestiture trust. The settlement agreement was amended on July 22, 2011 with the
approval of the CCC on August 8, 2011. Following the transfer of these interests into trust, the Company ceased to be regulated by the CCC or the DGE, except as otherwise provided by the trust
agreement and the settlement agreement. 
        The
terms of the settlement agreement, as amended, mandate the sale of the trust property by March 2014, which represents an 18-month extension compared to the original
agreement. During the period ending in March 2013, which also represents an 18-month extension compared to the original agreement, the Company has the right to direct the trustee to sell
the trust property, subject to approval of the CCC. If a sale is not concluded by that time, the trustee is responsible for selling the trust property during the following 12-month period.
Prior to the consummation of the sale, the divestiture trust will retain any cash flows received in respect of the trust property, but will pay property taxes and other costs attributable to the trust
property. The Company is the sole economic beneficiary of the trust and will be permitted to reapply for a New Jersey gaming license beginning 30 months after the completion of the sale of the
trust assets. As of December 31, 2011, the trust had $188 million of cash and investments, of which $150 million is held in U.S. treasury securities with maturities greater than
three months but less than one year, and is recorded within "Prepaid expenses and other." 
        As
a result of the Company's ownership interest in Borgata being placed into a trust, the Company no longer has significant influence over Borgata; therefore, the Company discontinued
the equity method of accounting for Borgata at the point the assets were placed in the trust in March 2010, and accounts for its investment in Borgata under the cost method of accounting. The carrying
value of the investment related to Borgata is included in "Other long-term assets, net." Earnings and losses that relate to the investment that were previously accrued remain as a part of
the carrying amount of the investment. Distributions received by the trust that do not exceed the Company's share of earnings are recognized currently in earnings. However, distributions received by
the trust that exceed the Company's share of earnings for such periods are applied to reduce the carrying amount of its investment. The Company consolidates the trust as it is the sole economic
beneficiary. The Company did not receive any distributions from the trust in 2011. The trust received net distributions from the joint venture of $113 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010 and recorded $94 million as a reduction of the carrying value and $19 million to "Other, net" non-operating income. 
        The
Company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $128 million at September 30, 2010 which decreased the carrying value of its investment in
Borgata to approximately $250 million. The impairment charge was based on an offer received from a potential buyer at that time and authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. The Company
ultimately did not reach final agreement with such buyer. The Company continues to negotiate with other parties who have expressed interest in the asset, but can provide no assurance that a
transaction will be completed. 
        The
Company reviewed the carrying value of its 50% interest in Borgata as of December 31, 2011 and determined that it was necessary to record an
other-than-temporary impairment charge of $62 million in "Property transactions, net," based on an estimated fair value of $185 million for its 50% interest.
Management used a discounted cash flow analysis to determine the estimated fair value from a market participant's point of view. Key assumptions included in such analysis include management's
estimates of future cash flows, including outflows for capital expenditures, an appropriate discount rate, and long-term growth rate. There is significant uncertainty surrounding Borgata's
future operating results, primarily due to the planned opening of a major new resort in the Atlantic City market during 2012 and other additional competition expected in surrounding markets. As a
result, for purposes of this analysis management has reflected a decrease in forecasted cash flows in 2012 and 2013. Also, management used a long-term growth rate of 3% and a discount rate
of 10.5%, which it believes appropriately reflects risk associated with the estimated cash flows. This analysis is sensitive to management assumptions, and increases or decreases in these assumptions
would have a material impact on the analysis. 
90



 
        In
July 2010, the Company entered into an agreement to sell four long-term ground leases and their respective underlying real property parcels, approximately 11 acres,
underlying the Borgata. The transaction closed in November 2010 and the Company received net proceeds of $71 million and recorded a gain of $3 million related to the sale in "Property
transactions, net." 
 NOTE 2 — SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION  
         Principles of consolidation. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. The Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates which are 50% or less owned are accounted for under the equity method. The Company does not have significant variable
interests in variable interest entities. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
         Prior period restatements and reclassifications. The Company identified certain errors related to deferred tax liabilities in its financial
statements for years prior to 2009. Such errors have been corrected in the accompanying financial statements. The Company recorded an additional $57 million of non-current deferred
tax liabilities, a $66 million increase in accumulated deficit and a $9 million decrease in goodwill in the December 31, 2010 balance sheet, and a $66 million decrease to
beginning retained earnings in the statement of stockholders' equity for the period ended December 31, 2009. These restatements did not impact the income statements for the periods ended
December 31, 2009 or 2010 included herein. The restated amounts include a $74 million deferred tax liability (reduced in part by several minor purchase accounting items) from the
Company's joint venture investment in Grand Victoria, which was acquired as part of the Mandalay Resort Group acquisition in 2005. Additional goodwill should have been recorded in purchase accounting
for the Mandalay acquisition; however, this additional goodwill would have been included as an additional $66 million goodwill impairment when the Company recorded an impairment charge of
$1.2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008 for the majority of the goodwill recognized in the Mandalay acquisition. 
        In
addition, the consolidated financial statements for prior years reflect certain reclassifications, which have no effect on previously reported net income, to conform to the current
year presentation. The Company reclassified hotel resort fees to rooms revenue from other revenue. The total amounts reclassified to rooms revenue for 2010 and 2009 were $70 million and
$15 million, respectively. Pursuant to the guidance in the recently issued AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide, "Gaming," the Company has also reclassified certain amounts paid under slot
participation agreements from a reduction in casino revenue to casino expense in 2010 and 2009. Slot participation fees were $37 million in 2010 and $32 million in 2009. 
        Management's use of estimates. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. These principles require the Company's management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. 
         Fair value measurements. Fair value measurements affect the Company's accounting and impairment assessments of its long-lived assets,
investments in unconsolidated affiliates, cost method investments, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition, goodwill, and other intangible assets. Fair value measurements also affect
the Company's accounting for certain of its financial assets
and liabilities. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date and is measured according to a hierarchy that includes: "Level 1" inputs, such as quoted prices in an active market; "Level 2" inputs, which are observable inputs for similar
assets; or "Level 3" inputs, which are unobservable inputs. 
91



 
        The
Company uses fair value measurements when assessing impairment of its investments in unconsolidated affiliates. The Company estimates such fair value using a discounted cash flow
analysis utilizing Level 3 inputs, including market indicators of discount rates and terminal year capitalization rates. See Note 6 for further discussion. 
        The
Company assessed the fair value of its acquisition of MGM China using Level 1 inputs. See Note 3 for discussion of the allocation of fair value to assets and
liabilities of MGM China. At September 30, 2011, the Company assessed the fair value of Circus Circus Reno using Level 3 inputs—see Note 16 for further discussion. At
December 31, 2011, the Company assessed the fair value of its cost investment in Borgata using Level 3 inputs—see Note 1 for further discussion. At December 31,
2011, the fair value of the Company's treasury securities held by the Borgata trust was $150 million, measured using Level 1 inputs—see Note 1 for additional
information related to the Borgata trust. The Company's $300 million 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 issued in June 2011 were recorded at fair value on the issue date, measured using
Level 1 inputs—see Note 9 for further discussion of the convertible senior note issuance. 
        In
connection with its accounting for the March 2010 amended and restated credit facility as discussed in Note 9, the Company estimated fair value of its senior credit facility
using Level 1 inputs. The Company also uses Level 1 inputs for its long-term debt fair value disclosures. 
        At
December 31, 2009, the fair value of the Company's Renaissance Pointe land holdings were measured using Level 2 and Level 3 inputs—see Note 16
for further discussion of the Renaissance Pointe impairment. 
         Cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include investments and interest bearing instruments with maturities of 90 days or less
at the date of acquisition. Such investments are carried at cost, which approximates market value. Book overdraft balances resulting from the Company's cash management program are recorded as accounts
payable, construction payable, or other accrued liabilities, as applicable. 
         Accounts receivable and credit risk. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of
casino accounts receivable. The Company issues credit to approved casino customers and gaming promoters following background checks and investigations of creditworthiness. At December 31, 2011,
a substantial portion of the Company's receivables was due from customers residing in foreign countries. Business or economic conditions or other significant events in these countries could affect the
collectibility of such receivables. 
        Accounts
receivable are typically non-interest bearing and are initially recorded at cost. Accounts are written off when management deems the account to be uncollectible.
Recoveries of accounts previously written off are recorded when received. An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained to reduce the Company's receivables to their net carrying amount,
which approximates fair value. The allowance is estimated based on specific review of customer accounts as well as historical collection experience and current economic and business conditions.
Management believes that as of December 31, 2011, no significant concentrations of credit risk existed for which an allowance had not already been recorded. 
         Inventories. Inventories consist primarily of food and beverage, retail merchandise and operating supplies, and are stated at the lower of cost or
market. Cost is determined primarily using the average cost method for food and beverage and operating supplies. Cost for retail merchandise is determined using the retail inventory method or specific
identification method. 
         Property and equipment. Property and equipment are stated at cost. A significant amount of the Company's property and equipment was acquired through
business combinations and therefore recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Gains or losses on dispositions of property and equipment are included 
92



 
in
the determination of income. Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Property and equipment are generally depreciated over the following estimated useful lives on a straight-line
basis: 













 Buildings and improvements
 
 
20 to 40 years
 


 Land improvements
 
 
10 to 20 years
 


 Furniture and fixtures
 
 
3 to 20 years
 


 Equipment
 
 
3 to 20 years
 




        The Company evaluates its property and equipment and other long-lived assets for impairment based on its classification as
a) held for sale or b) to be held and used. Several criteria must be met before an asset is classified as held for sale, including that management with the appropriate authority commits
to a plan to sell the asset at a reasonable price in relation to its fair value and is actively seeking a buyer. For assets held for sale, the Company recognizes the asset at the lower of carrying
value or fair market value less costs to sell, as estimated based on comparable asset sales, offers received, or a discounted cash flow model. For assets to be held and used, the Company reviews for
impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. The Company then compares the estimated future cash flows of the asset, on an undiscounted basis, to the carrying value of the asset. If the
undiscounted cash flows exceed the carrying value, no impairment is indicated. If the undiscounted cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, then an impairment is recorded based on the fair value
of the asset, typically measured using a discounted cash flow model. If an asset is still under development, future cash flows include remaining construction costs. All recognized impairment losses,
whether for assets held for sale or assets to be held and used, are recorded as operating expenses. See Note 16 for additional information. 
        Capitalized interest. The interest cost associated with major development and construction projects is capitalized and included in the cost of the
project. When no debt is incurred specifically for a project, interest is capitalized on amounts expended on the project using the weighted-average cost of the Company's outstanding borrowings.
Capitalization of interest ceases when the project is substantially complete or development activity is suspended for more than a brief period. 
         Investment in The M Resort LLC convertible note. In 2009, the Company determined that the fair value of the M Resort Note was $0, that the
decline in value was "other-than-temporary," and that the entire amount of the indicated impairment related to a credit loss. The conclusion that the decline in value was
"other-than-temporary" was based on the Company's assessment of actual results since the opening of the M Resort and M Resort's management's revised cash flow projections since
its opening, which were significantly lower than original predictions due to market and general economic conditions. Based on the conclusions above, the Company recorded a pre-tax
impairment charge of $176 million—the accreted value as of May 31, 2009—in the second quarter of 2009 within "Other, net" non-operating expense. Of
that amount, $82 million was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss, which amount was $54 million net of tax. The Company no longer holds this note. 
        Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates. The Company has investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity
method. Under the equity method, carrying value is adjusted for the Company's share of the investees' earnings and losses, as well as capital contributions to and distributions from these companies.
Distributions in excess of equity method earnings are recognized as a return of investment and recorded as investing cash inflows in the accompanying consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company
classifies operating income and losses as well as gains and impairments related to its investments in unconsolidated affiliates as a component of operating income or loss, as the Company's investments
in such unconsolidated affiliates are an extension of the Company's core business operations. 
        The
Company evaluates its investments in unconsolidated affiliates for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of its investment may have
experienced an "other-than-temporary" decline in value. If such conditions exist, the Company compares the estimated 
93



 
fair
value of the investment to its carrying value to determine if an impairment is indicated and determines whether the impairment is "other-than-temporary" based on its
assessment of all relevant factors, including consideration of the Company's intent and ability to retain its investment. The Company estimates fair value using a discounted cash flow analysis based
on estimated future results of the investee and market indicators of terminal year capitalization rates. See Note 6 for results of the Company's review of its investment in certain of its
unconsolidated affiliates. 
         Goodwill and other intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair market value of net assets acquired in business
combinations. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets must be reviewed for impairment at least annually and between annual test dates in certain circumstances. The Company performs its annual
impairment tests in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Except as discussed in Note 16, no impairments were indicated as a result of the annual impairment review for goodwill and
indefinite-lived intangible assets in 2011 and 2010. 
        Goodwill
for relevant reporting units is tested for impairment using a discounted cash flow analysis based on the estimated future results of the Company's reporting units discounted
using market discount rates and market indicators of terminal year capitalization rates. The implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill is compared to the carrying value of that goodwill. The
implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to its assets and liabilities and the amount remaining, if any, is the implied fair value of goodwill.
If the implied fair value of the goodwill is less than its carrying value then it must be written down to its implied fair value. License rights are tested for impairment using a discounted cash flow
approach, and trademarks are tested for impairment using the relief-from-royalty method. If the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying
amount, an impairment loss must be recognized equal to the difference. 
         Revenue recognition and promotional allowances. Casino revenue is the aggregate net difference between gaming wins and losses, with liabilities
recognized for funds deposited by customers before gaming play occurs ("casino front money") and for chips in the customers' possession ("outstanding chip liability"). Hotel, food and beverage,
entertainment and other operating revenues are recognized as services are performed. Advance deposits on rooms and advance ticket sales are recorded as accrued liabilities until services are provided
to the customer. 
        Gaming
revenues are recognized net of certain sales incentives, including discounts and points earned in point-loyalty programs. The retail value of accommodations, food and beverage,
and other services furnished to guests without charge is included in gross revenue and then deducted as promotional allowances. The estimated cost of providing such promotional allowances is primarily
included in casino expenses as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Rooms
 
$
100,968
 
$
104,264
 
$
105,821
 


 Food and beverage
 
 
274,776
 
 
249,111
 
 
261,647
 


 Entertainment, retail and other
 
 
32,705
 
 
30,683
 
 
32,450
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
408,449
 
$
384,058
 
$
399,918
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Gaming promoters. A significant portion of the high-end ("VIP") gaming volume at MGM Macau is generated through the use of gaming
promoters, also known as junket operators. These operators introduce high-end gaming players to MGM Macau, assist these customers with travel arrangements, and extend gaming credit to
these players. VIP gaming at MGM Macau is conducted by the use of special purpose nonnegotiable gaming chips called "rolling chips." Gaming promoters purchase these rolling chips from MGM Macau and in
turn sell these chips to their players. The rolling chips allow MGM Macau to 
94



 
track
the amount of wagering conducted by each gaming promoters' clients in order to determine VIP gaming play. In exchange for the gaming promoters' services, MGM Macau pays the gaming promoters
through rolling chip turnover-based commissions or through revenue-sharing arrangements. The estimated portion of the gaming promoter payments that represent amounts passed through to VIP customers is
recorded net against casino revenue, and the estimated portion retained by the gaming promoter for its compensation is recorded to casino expense. 
         Reimbursed expenses. The Company recognizes costs reimbursed pursuant to management services as revenue in the period it incurs the costs. Reimbursed
costs related mainly to the Company's management of CityCenter and totaled $351 million for 2011, $359 million for 2010 and $99 million for 2009. 
         Loyalty programs. The Company's primary loyalty program is "M life" and is available to patrons at substantially all of the Company's owned and
operated resorts. Customers earn points based on their slots play which can be redeemed for free play at any of the Company's participating resorts. The Company records a liability based on the points
earned multiplied by the redemption value, less an estimate for points not expected to be redeemed, and records a corresponding reduction in casino revenue. Customers also earn credits ("express
comps") based on their slots play and table games play which can be redeemed for complimentary services, including hotel rooms, food and beverage, and entertainment. The Company records a liability
for the estimated costs of providing services for express comps based on the express comps earned multiplied by a cost margin, less an estimate for express comps not expected to be redeemed and
records a corresponding expense in the casino department. MGM Macau also has a loyalty program, whereby patrons earn rewards that can be redeemed for complimentary services, including hotel rooms,
food and beverage and entertainment. 
         Advertising. The Company expenses advertising costs the first time the advertising takes place. Advertising expense, which is generally included in
general and administrative expenses, was $121 million, $123 million, and $118 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
         Corporate expense. Corporate expense represents unallocated payroll and aircraft costs, professional fees and various other expenses not directly
related to the Company's casino resort operations. In addition, corporate expense includes the costs associated with the Company's evaluation and pursuit of new business opportunities, which are
expensed as incurred. 
         Preopening and start-up expenses. Preopening and start-up costs, including organizational costs, are expensed as incurred.
Costs classified as preopening and start-up expenses include payroll, outside services, advertising, and other expenses related to new or start-up operations. 
         Property transactions, net. The Company classifies transactions such as write-downs and impairments, demolition costs, and normal gains and losses on
the sale of assets as "Property transactions, net." See Note 16 for a detailed discussion of these amounts. 
95



 
        Income per share of common stock. The weighted-average number of common and common equivalent shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted
earnings per share consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Numerator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International - basic
 
$
3,114,637
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,291,682
)


 Interest on convertible debt, net of tax
 
 
38,344
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International - diluted
 
$
3,152,981
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,291,682
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Denominator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted-average common shares outstanding - basic
 
 
488,652
 
 
450,449
 
 
378,513
 


 Potential dilution from share-based awards
 
 
1,577
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Potential dilution from assumed conversion of convertible debt
 
 
70,666
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted-average common and common equivalent shares - diluted
 
 
560,895
 
 
450,449
 
 
378,513
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Anti-dilutive share-based awards excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share
 
 
21,886
 
 
29,273
 
 
29,291
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Currency translation. The Company translates the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries that are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Balance sheet
accounts are translated at the exchange rate in effect at each balance sheet date. Income statement accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange prevailing during the period. Translation
adjustments resulting from this process are charged or credited to other comprehensive income (loss). 
        Comprehensive income (loss). Comprehensive income includes net income (loss) and all other non-stockholder changes in equity, or other
comprehensive income. Elements of the Company's accumulated other comprehensive loss are reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders' equity, and the cumulative balance of
these elements consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Currency translation adjustments
 
$
11,602
 
$
95
 


 Other comprehensive income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(248
)
 
(396
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
11,354
 
 
(301
)


 Less: Currency translation adjustment attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(5,376
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
$
5,978
 
$
(301
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




         Financial statement impact of Monte Carlo fire. The Company maintains insurance for both property damage and business interruption relating to
catastrophic events, such as the rooftop fire at Monte Carlo in January 2008. Business interruption insurance covers lost profits and other costs incurred during the closure period and up to six
months following re-opening. The Company settled its final claim with its insurance carriers related to the Monte Carlo fire in 2009 for a total of $74 million. The
pre-tax impact on the Company's statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 related to such insurance 
96



 
recoveries
included a $15 million reduction of "General and administrative" expense and a $7 million offset to "Property transactions, net." 
        Sale of TI. On March 20, 2009, the Company closed the sale of the Treasure Island casino resort ("TI") to Ruffin Acquisition, LLC for
net proceeds to the Company of approximately $746 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $187 million related to the sale, which is included within "Property transactions,
net." In connection with the sale of TI, including the transfer of all of the membership interests of TI, TI was released as a guarantor of the outstanding indebtedness of the Company and its
subsidiaries. 
        As
a result of the sale, the Company evaluated TI's operations for potential treatment as discontinued operations. The Company concluded significant customer migration would occur
because there was a shared customer base through the Company's customer loyalty rewards program and because of the physical proximity of TI to the Company's other Las Vegas Strip resorts. Most of the
loyalty rewards program customers of TI were also customers of one or more of the Company's other resorts. The Company retained the ability to market to these customers after the sale and believes the
loyalty rewards program is an important factor in the migration of customer play to the Company's other resorts. The Company expects the cash flow benefits of such migration to continue for an
indefinite period. Therefore, the results of the TI operations through the time of sale have not been classified as discontinued operations. 
        Recently Issued Accounting Standards. Certain amendments to Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 820, "Fair Value Measurements," become
effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Such amendments include a consistent definition of fair value, enhanced disclosure requirements for
"Level 3" fair value adjustments and other changes to required disclosures. The Company does not expect this amendment to have a material effect on its financial statements and will comply with
the disclosure enhancements of this amendment when the amendment is effective. 
        In
June 2011, ASC 220, "Comprehensive Income," was amended and will become effective for the Company for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, including
retrospective adjustment. Such amendments allow the Company two options for the presentation of comprehensive income. Under either option, the Company is required to present each component of net
income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. As a result of the
amendment, the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders' equity is eliminated. The Company does not expect this amendment to
have a material
effect on its financial statements and will comply with the disclosure enhancements of this amendment when the amendment is effective. 
        In
September 2011, ASC 350, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Others," was amended to simplify the assessment of goodwill impairment and will become effective for the Company for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011. The amended guidance allows the Company to do an initial qualitative assessment of relative events and circumstances to determine if fair value of a
reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying value, prior to performing the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. The Company does not expect this amendment to
have a material effect on its financial statements and will comply with the disclosure enhancements of this amendment when the amendment is effective. 
 NOTE 3 — MGM CHINA ACQUISITION  
        On June 3, 2011, the Company and Ms. Ho, Pansy Catilina Chiu King ("Ms. Pansy Ho") completed a reorganization of
the capital structure of MGM China and the initial public offering of 760 million shares of MGM China on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (the "IPO"), representing 20% of the post
issuance capital stock of MGM China, at an offer price of HKD 15.34 per share. Pursuant to this reorganization, the Company, through a wholly owned subsidiary, acquired an additional 1% of the
overall capital stock of MGM China for HKD 15.34 per share, or approximately $75 million, and thereby became the indirect owner of 51% of MGM China. Following the IPO, Ms. Pansy
Ho sold an additional 59 million shares of MGM China pursuant to the underwriters' overallotment option. 
97




 









        Through
the acquisition of its additional 1% interest of MGM China, the Company obtained a controlling interest and was required to consolidate MGM China as of June 3, 2011. Prior
to the IPO, the Company held a 50% interest in MGM Grand Paradise, which was accounted for under the equity method as discussed in Note 6. The acquisition of the controlling financial interest
was accounted for as a business combination and the Company recognized 100% of the assets, liabilities, and noncontrolling interests of MGM China at fair value at the date of acquisition. The fair
value of the equity interests of MGM China was determined by the IPO transaction price and equaled approximately $7.5 billion. The carrying value of the Company's equity method investment was
significantly less than its share of the fair value of MGM China at the acquisition date, resulting in a $3.5 billion gain on the acquisition. Under the acquisition method, the fair value was
allocated to the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and noncontrolling interests recorded in the transaction. The following table sets forth the allocation at June 3, 2011 (in thousands): 













 Current assets
 
$
558,037
 


 Property and equipment and other long-term assets
 
 
704,823
 


 Goodwill
 
 
2,821,589
 


 Gaming subconcession
 
 
4,499,727
 


 Land concession
 
 
84,466
 


 Customer lists
 
 
128,564
 


 Gaming promoter relationships
 
 
179,989
 


 Current liabilities, excluding long-term debt
 
 
(459,518
)


 Long-term debt
 
 
(642,818
)


 Deferred taxes
 
 
(380,628
)


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
7,494,231
 


 
 
 
 


 Noncontrolling interests
 
$
(3,672,173
)


 
 
 
 




        As discussed above, the Company recognized the identifiable intangible assets of MGM China at fair value. The gaming subconcession and land
concession had historical cost bases which were being amortized by MGM Macau. The customer relationship intangible assets did not have historical cost
bases at MGM Macau. The estimated fair values of the intangible assets acquired were primarily determined using Level 3 inputs. The gaming subconcession was valued using an excess earnings
model based on estimated future cash flows of MGM Macau. All of the recognized intangible assets were determined to have finite lives and are being amortized over their estimated useful lives as
discussed below. 
         Gaming subconcession. Pursuant to the agreement dated June 19, 2004 between MGM Grand Paradise and Sociedade de Jogos de Macau, S.A.
("SJM"), a gaming subconcession was acquired by MGM Grand Paradise for the right to operate casino games of chance and other casino games for a period of 15 years commencing on April 20,
2005. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the gaming subconcession will be extended beyond the original terms of the agreement; however, management believes that the gaming subconcession
will be extended, given that the land concession agreement with the government extends significantly beyond the gaming subconcession. In addition, management believes that the fair value of MGM China
reflected in the IPO pricing suggests that market participants have assumed the gaming subconcession will be extended beyond its initial term. As such, the Company has determined that the gaming
subconcession intangible asset should be amortized on a straight-line basis over the initial term of the land concession through April 2031. 
         Land concession. MGM Grand Paradise entered into a contract with the Macau government to use the land under MGM Macau commencing from April 6,
2006. The land use right has an initial term through April 6, 2031, subject to renewal for additional periods. The land concession intangible asset will be amortized on a
straight-line basis over the remaining initial contractual term. 
         Customer lists. The Company recognized an intangible asset related to customer lists, which will be amortized on an accelerated basis over its
estimated useful life of five years. 
98



 
        Gaming promoter relationships. The Company recognized an intangible asset related to its relationships with gaming promoters, which will be amortized
on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of four years. 
         Deferred taxes. The Company recorded a net deferred tax liability of $381 million for the acquisition of the controlling financial interest in
MGM China and a corresponding increase to goodwill. The net deferred tax liability represents the excess of the financial reporting amounts of the net assets of MGM China over their respective bases
under Macau tax law measured at the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods such differences are expected to be realized, net of a valuation allowance of
$72 million. The tax-effected components of the net deferred tax liability at June 3, 2011 are as follows (in thousands): 













 Deferred tax assets- foreign
 
 
 
 


 Accruals, reserves and other
 
$
121
 


 Bad debt reserve
 
 
3,161
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
2,816
 


 Net operating loss carryforward
 
 
58,781
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
3,838
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
7,822
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
76,539
 


 Less: Valuation allowance
 
 
(71,670
)


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
4,869
 


 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax liabilities- foreign
 
 
 
 


 Intangible assets
 
 
(385,497
)


 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax liability
 
$
(380,628
)


 
 
 
 




        Income generated from gaming operations of MGM Grand Paradise is exempted from Macau's 12% complementary tax for the five-year period
ending December 31, 2016 pursuant to approval from the Macau government granted on September 22, 2011. However, the exemption from
the Macau 12% complementary tax on gaming profits does not apply to dividend distributions of such profits to MGM China, its sole shareholder. See Note 10 for additional discussion. 
        Non-gaming
operations remain subject to the complementary tax. MGM Grand Paradise had at June 3, 2011 a complementary tax net operating loss carryforward of
$490 million resulting from non-gaming operations that will expire if not utilized against non-gaming income in years 2011 through 2013. The Macanese net operating loss
carryforwards are fully offset by valuation allowance. 
        At
June 3, 2011, the Company had an excess amount for financial reporting over the U.S. tax basis of its investment in MGM China of $3.6 billion that management does not
consider to be essentially permanent in duration. The Company expects this basis difference to resolve through repatriations of future MGM China earnings. The Company has not provided U.S. deferred
taxes for such excess financial reporting basis because there would be sufficient foreign tax credits to offset all U.S. income tax that would result from the future repatriation of such earnings. 
         Consolidated results. MGM China's net revenue for the period from June 3, 2011 through December 31, 2011 was $1.5 billion,
operating income was $137 million and net income was $238 million. 
         Pro forma information. The operating results for MGM China and its subsidiaries are included in the accompanying consolidated statements of income
from the date of acquisition. The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information for the Company has been prepared assuming the 
99



 
Company's
acquisition of its controlling financial interest had occurred as of January 1, 2010 and excludes the gain recognized by the Company: 
















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands, except per share data)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
8,920,343
 
$
7,627,227
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
577,271
 
 
(1,308,633
)


 Net loss
 
 
(262,452
)
 
(1,599,813
)


 Net loss attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
 
(435,099
)
 
(1,567,281
)


 Loss per share of common stock attributable to MGM Resorts International:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
(0.89
)
$
(3.48
)


 Diluted
 
$
(0.89
)
$
(3.48
)




 NOTE 4 — ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, NET  
        Accounts receivable consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Casino
 
$
347,679
 
$
229,318
 


 Hotel
 
 
165,410
 
 
119,887
 


 Other
 
 
79,848
 
 
66,449
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
592,937
 
 
415,654
 


 Less: Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
 
(101,207
)
 
(93,760
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
491,730
 
$
321,894
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 NOTE 5 — PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET  
        Property and equipment consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Land
 
$
7,032,853
 
$
7,039,806
 


 Buildings, building improvements and land improvements
 
 
9,122,080
 
 
8,504,655
 


 Furniture, fixtures and equipment
 
 
3,926,438
 
 
3,768,476
 


 Construction in progress
 
 
122,372
 
 
72,843
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
20,203,743
 
 
19,385,780
 


 Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization
 
 
(5,337,099
)
 
(4,831,430
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
14,866,644
 
$
14,554,350
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




100



 
 NOTE 6 — INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES  
        Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 CityCenter Holdings, LLC – CityCenter (50%)
 
$
1,332,299
 
$
1,417,843
 


 Elgin Riverboat Resort–Riverboat Casino – Grand Victoria (50%)
 
 
292,094
 
 
294,305
 


 MGM Grand Paradise Limited – Macau (50%)
 
 
-
 
 
173,030
 


 Circus and Eldorado Joint Venture – Silver Legacy (50%)
 
 
-
 
 
25,408
 


 Other
 
 
11,179
 
 
12,569
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,635,572
 
$
1,923,155
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The Company recorded its share of the results of operations of unconsolidated affiliates as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates
 
$
91,094
 
$
(78,434
)
$
(88,227
)


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
-
 
 
(3,494
)
 
(52,824
)


 Non-operating items from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(119,013
)
 
(108,731
)
 
(47,127
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(27,919
)
$
(190,659
)
$
(188,178
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 Borgata  

        As discussed in Note 1, the Company discontinued the equity method of accounting for Borgata in March 2010 at the point the
assets were placed in the trust, and accounts for its rights under the trust arrangement under the cost method of accounting. 

 Silver Legacy  

        Silver Legacy has approximately $143 million of outstanding senior notes due in March 2012. Silver Legacy is exploring various
alternatives for refinancing or restructuring its obligations under the notes, including filing for bankruptcy protection. The Company reviewed the carrying value of its investment in Silver Legacy as
of December 31, 2011 and has recorded an "other-than-temporary" impairment charge of $23 million to decrease the carrying value of its investment to zero. The
Company will discontinue applying the equity method for its investment in Silver Legacy and will not provide for additional losses until its share of future net income, if any, equals the share of net
losses not recognized during the period the equity method was suspended. 

 MGM Grand Paradise Limited  

        As discussed in Note 3, the Company obtained a controlling financial interest in MGM China as of June 3, 2011, which owns
MGM Grand Paradise, the Macau company that owns MGM Macau resort and casino and the related gaming subconcession and land concession, and therefore was required to consolidate MGM China beginning on
that date. Prior thereto, the Company's investment in MGM Grand Paradise was accounted for under the equity method. Prior to the transaction the Company received distributions from MGM Grand Paradise
of approximately $192 million in 2010 and $31 million in 2011. 
101



 

 CityCenter  

        January 2011 debt restructuring transactions. In January 2011, CityCenter completed a series of transactions including the issuance of
$900 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.625% senior
secured first lien notes due 2016 and $600 million in aggregate principal amount of 10.75%/11.50% senior secured second lien PIK toggle notes due 2017 in a private placement. The interest rate
on the second lien notes is 10.75% for interest paid in cash, and 11.50% if CityCenter pays interest in the form of additional debt. CityCenter received net proceeds from the offering of the notes of
$1.46 billion after initial purchaser's discounts and commissions but before other offering expenses. 
        Effective
concurrently with the notes offering, CityCenter's senior credit facility was amended and restated which extended the maturity of $500 million of the
$1.85 billion outstanding loans until January 21, 2015. The restated senior credit facility does not include a revolving loan component. All borrowings under the senior credit facility
in excess of $500 million were repaid using the proceeds of the first lien notes and the second lien notes. In addition, net proceeds from the note offerings, together with equity contributions
of $73 million from the members, were used to fund the interest escrow account of $159 million for the benefit of the holders of the first lien notes and the lenders under the restated
senior credit facility. The restated senior credit facility is secured, on a pari passu basis with the first lien notes, by a first priority lien on substantially all of CityCenter's assets and those
of its subsidiaries, except that any proceeds generated by the sale of Crystals outside of bankruptcy or foreclosure proceedings will be paid first to the lenders under the restated senior credit
facility. CityCenter recorded a loss on the debt modification of $24 million in the first quarter of 2011 related to the above transactions. 
         February 2012 senior notes issuance. In February 2012, CityCenter issued $240 million in aggregate principal amount of its 7.625% senior
secured first lien notes at a premium for net proceeds to the Company, after deducting initial purchasers' discounts and commissions, of approximately $247 million. The Company used net
proceeds from the offering, together with excess cash on hand, to repay $300 million of the outstanding borrowings under its restated senior credit facility. 
         Completion guarantee. The Company entered into an amended completion and cost overrun guarantee in connection with CityCenter's restated senior
credit facility agreement and issuance of $1.5 billion of senior secured first lien notes and senior secured second lien notes, as discussed in Note 11. 
        Investment impairment. At June 30, 2010, the Company reviewed its CityCenter investment for impairment using revised operating forecasts
developed by CityCenter management. Based on current and forecasted market conditions and because CityCenter's results of operations through June 30, 2010 were below previous forecasts, and the
revised operating forecasts were lower than previous forecasts, the Company concluded that it should review the carrying value of its investment. The Company determined that the carrying value of its
investment exceeded the fair value determined using a discounted cash flow analyses and therefore an impairment was indicated. The Company intends to and believes it will be able to retain its
investment in CityCenter; however, due to the extent of the shortfall and its assessment of the uncertainty of fully recovering its investment, the Company determined that
the impairments were "other-than-temporary" and recorded impairment charges of $1.12 billion in the second quarter of 2010 
        At
September 30, 2010, the Company recognized an increase of $232 million in its total net obligation under its CityCenter completion guarantee, and a corresponding
increase in its investment in CityCenter. The increase primarily reflected a revision to prior estimates based on its assessment of the most current information derived from the close-out
and litigation processes and does not reflect certain potential recoveries that CityCenter is pursuing as part of the litigation process. The Company completed an impairment review as of
September 30, 2010 and as a result recorded an additional impairment of $191 million in the third quarter of 2010 included in "Property transactions, net." 
        The
discounted cash flow analyses for the Company's investment in CityCenter included estimated future cash inflows from operations, including residential sales, and estimated future
cash outflows for 
102



 
capital
expenditures. The June 2010 and September 2010 analyses used an 11% discount rate and a long term growth rate of 4% related to forecasted cash flows for CityCenter's operating assets. 
        In
2009, the Company reviewed its CityCenter investment for impairment using revised operating forecasts developed by CityCenter management. In addition, the impairment charge related to
CityCenter's residential real estate under development discussed below further indicated that the Company's investment may have experienced an "other-than-temporary" decline in
value. The Company's discounted cash flow analysis for CityCenter included estimated future cash outflows for construction and maintenance expenditures and future cash inflows from operations,
including residential sales. Based on its analysis, the Company determined the carrying value of its investment exceeded its fair value and determined that the impairment was
"other-than-temporary." The Company recorded an impairment charge of $956 million included in "Property transactions, net." 
        Residential impairment. Upon substantial completion of construction of the Mandarin Oriental residential inventory in the first quarter of 2010 and
the Veer residential inventory in the second quarter of 2010, CityCenter is required to carry its residential inventory at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less costs to sell. Fair value
of the residential inventory is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis based on management's current expectations of future cash flows. The key inputs in the discounted cash flow analysis
include estimated sales prices of units currently under
contract and new unit sales, the absorption rate over the sell-out period, and the discount rate. 
        CityCenter
recorded a residential impairment charge of $53 million in 2011. The Company recognized 50% of such impairment charge, resulting in a pre-tax charge of
approximately $26 million. In 2010, CityCenter recorded residential impairment charges of $330 million. The Company recognized 50% of such impairment charges, resulting in a
pre-tax charge of approximately $166 million. 
        Included
in loss from unconsolidated affiliates for the year ended December 31, 2009 is the Company's share of an impairment charge relating to CityCenter residential real estate
under development ("REUD"). CityCenter was required to review its REUD for impairment as of September 30, 2009, mainly due to CityCenter's September 2009 decision to discount the prices of its
residential inventory by 30%. This decision and related market conditions led to CityCenter management's conclusion that the carrying value of the REUD was not recoverable based on estimates of
undiscounted cash flows. As a result, CityCenter was required to compare the fair value of its REUD to its carrying value and record an impairment charge for the shortfall. Fair value of the REUD was
determined using a discounted cash flow analysis based on management's current expectations of future cash flows. The key inputs in the discounted cash flow analysis included estimated sales prices of
units currently under contract and new unit sales, the absorption rate over the sell-out period, and the discount rate. This analysis resulted in an impairment charge of approximately
$348 million of the REUD. The Company recognized its 50% share of such impairment charge, adjusted by certain basis differences, resulting in a pre-tax charge of
$203 million. 
         Harmon. During the third quarter of 2010, CityCenter management determined that it was unlikely that the Harmon Hotel & Spa ("Harmon") would
be completed using the building as it stood. As a result, CityCenter recorded an impairment charge of $279 million in the third quarter of 2010 related to construction in progress assets. The
impairment of Harmon did not affect the Company's loss from unconsolidated affiliates in the third quarter of 2010, because the Company's 50% share of the impairment charge had previously been
recognized by the Company in connection with prior impairments of its investment balance. See Note 11 for additional information about Harmon. 
103



 
        CityCenter summary financial information. Summarized balance sheet information of the CityCenter joint venture is as follows: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Current assets
 
$
393,140
 
$
211,646
 


 Property and other assets, net
 
 
9,068,790
 
 
9,430,171
 


 Current liabilities
 
 
375,870
 
 
381,314
 


 Long-term debt and other liabilities
 
 
2,491,166
 
 
2,752,196
 


 Equity
 
 
6,594,894
 
 
6,508,307
 




        Summarized income statement information of the CityCenter joint venture is as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
1,081,861
 
$
1,332,063
 
$
69,291
 


 Operating expenses, except preopening expenses
 
 
(1,293,493
)
 
(2,196,706
)
 
(469,445
)


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
-
 
 
(6,202
)
 
(104,805
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating loss
 
 
(211,632
)
 
(870,845
)
 
(504,959
)


 Interest expense
 
 
(267,836
)
 
(240,731
)
 
(7,011
)


 Other non-operating expense
 
 
(22,706
)
 
(3,614
)
 
(10,360
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(502,174
)
$
(1,115,190
)
$
(522,330
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Net revenues related to residential operations were $24 million, $490 million and $3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
 Joint Venture Financial Information  
        Summarized balance sheet information of the unconsolidated affiliates is as follows: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Current assets
 
$
502,316
 
$
731,381
 


 Property and other long-term assets, net
 
 
9,332,089
 
 
10,634,691
 


 Current liabilities
 
 
569,919
 
 
799,630
 


 Long-term debt and other liabilities
 
 
2,501,246
 
 
3,645,762
 


 Equity
 
 
6,763,240
 
 
6,920,680
 




104



 
        Summarized results of operations of the unconsolidated affiliates are as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
2,558,631
 
$
3,345,630
 
$
2,269,789
 


 Operating expenses, except preopening expenses
 
 
(2,472,668
)
 
(3,871,243
)
 
(2,391,792
)


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
-
 
 
(6,202
)
 
(105,504
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
85,963
 
 
(531,815
)
 
(227,507
)


 Interest expense
 
 
(293,578
)
 
(288,273
)
 
(83,449
)


 Other non-operating expense
 
 
(25,876
)
 
(27,451
)
 
(36,861
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(233,491
)
$
(847,539
)
$
(347,817
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 





 Basis Differences  

        The Company's investments in unconsolidated affiliates do not equal the venture-level equity due to various basis differences. Basis
differences related to depreciable assets are being amortized based on the useful lives of the related assets and liabilities and basis differences related to non–depreciable assets are
not being amortized. Differences between the Company's venture-level equity and investment balances are as follows: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Venture-level equity
 
$
3,376,803
 
$
3,433,966
 


 Fair value adjustments to investments acquired in business combinations (A)
 
 
267,190
 
 
244,636
 


 Capitalized interest (B)
 
 
281,678
 
 
331,340
 


 Adjustment to CityCenter equity upon contribution of net assets by MGM Resorts International (C)
 
 
(594,730
)
 
(600,122
)


 Completion guarantee (D)
 
 
283,739
 
 
292,575
 


 Advances to CityCenter, net of discount (E)
 
 
217,157
 
 
379,167
 


 Other-than-temporary impairments of CityCenter investment (F)
 
 
(2,030,113
)
 
(2,087,593
)


 Other adjustments (G)
 
 
(166,152
)
 
(70,814
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,635,572
 
$
1,923,155
 


 
 
 
 
 
 







(A)Includes
a $267 million increase for Grand Victoria related to indefinite-lived gaming license rights.  (B)Relates
to interest capitalized on the Company's investment balance during the unconsolidated affiliates' development and construction stages. Such amounts
are being amortized over the life of the underlying assets.  (C)Relates
to land, other fixed assets, residential real estate, and other assets.  (D)The
Company funded $92 million and $553 million under the completion guarantee in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The 2011 contribution and
$429 million of the 2010 contribution was recognized as equity contributions by the joint venture to be split by the partners.  (E)The
advances to CityCenter are recognized as long-term debt by CityCenter; however, since such advances were provided at below market rates,
CityCenter recorded the advances at a discount with a corresponding equity contribution. This basis difference will be resolved when the advances are repaid and upon accretion of the discount. (F)The
impairment of the Company's CityCenter investment includes $426 million of impairments allocated to land, which are not amortized. The remaining
impairment is being amortized over the average life of the underlying assets.  (G)Other
adjustments in 2011 include the deferred gain on the CityCenter transaction, the receivable from CityCenter and the
other-than-temporary impairment of the Company's Silver Legacy investment. The deferred gain on the CityCenter transaction has been allocated to the underlying assets and is
being amortized over the life of the underlying assets. The receivable from CityCenter will be resolved when the remaining condominium proceeds owed to the Company under the completion guarantee are
repaid. Other adjustments in 2010 include the deferred gain on the CityCenter transaction and certain adjustments related to the Company's MGM Macau investment. 


105




 









 NOTE 7 — GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  
        Goodwill and other intangible assets consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Goodwill:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Mirage Resorts acquisition (2000)
 
$
30,451
 
$
30,451
 


 Mandalay Resort Group acquisition (2005)
 
 
40,524
 
 
45,510
 


 MGM China acquisition (2011)
 
 
2,825,634
 
 
-
 


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
1,195
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,896,609
 
$
77,156
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Indefinite-lived intangible assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Detroit development rights
 
$
98,098
 
$
98,098
 


 Trademarks, license rights and other
 
 
234,073
 
 
235,672
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total indefinite-lived intangible assets
 
 
332,171
 
 
333,770
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Finite-lived intangible assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Macau gaming subconcession
 
 
4,496,552
 
 
-
 


 Less: Accumulated amortization
 
 
(121,478
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
4,375,074
 
 
-
 


 Macau land concession
 
 
84,585
 
 
-
 


 Less: Accumulated amortization
 
 
(2,458
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
82,127
 
 
-
 


 Macau customer lists
 
 
128,744
 
 
-
 


 Less: Accumulated amortization
 
 
(32,573
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
96,171
 
 
-
 


 Macau gaming promoter relationships
 
 
180,242
 
 
-
 


 Less: Accumulated amortization
 
 
(25,991
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
154,251
 
 
-
 


 Other intangible assets
 
 
30,226
 
 
30,229
 


 Less: Accumulated amortization
 
 
(21,903
)
 
(21,195
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
8,323
 
 
9,034
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total finite-lived intangible assets
 
 
4,715,946
 
 
9,034
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other intangible assets, net
 
$
5,048,117
 
$
342,804
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Goodwill related to the Mirage Resorts acquisition relates to Bellagio and The Mirage. The estimated fair values of Bellagio and Mirage are
substantially in excess of their carrying values including goodwill. The majority of the goodwill related to the Mandalay Resort Group acquisition was written off in 2008 and an additional
$5 million related to Railroad Pass was written off in 2011. The remaining balance relates to Gold Strike Tunica. See Note 3 for additional information related to goodwill recognized as
part of the MGM China transaction. 
        The
Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of development rights in Detroit, trademarks and license rights, of which $215 million includes trademarks and
trade names related to the Mandalay acquisition. 
106



 
        See
Note 3 for additional information related to the finite-lived intangible assets recognized as part of the MGM China transaction. The Company's remaining
finite–lived intangible assets consist primarily of lease acquisition costs amortized over the life of the related leases, and certain license rights amortized over their contractual life.
Total amortization expense related to intangible assets was $181 million, $1 million and $3 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        Estimated
future amortization is as follows: 













 
 
(In thousands) 
 


 Years ending December 31,
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
$
319,971
 


 2013
 
 
302,847
 


 2014
 
 
292,573
 


 2015
 
 
260,573
 


 2016
 
 
235,103
 


 Thereafter
 
 
3,305,090
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
4,715,946
 


 
 
 
 




 NOTE 8 — OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES  
        Other accrued liabilities consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Payroll and related
 
$
344,992
 
$
256,305
 


 Advance deposits and ticket sales
 
 
97,753
 
 
114,808
 


 Casino outstanding chip liability
 
 
290,238
 
 
79,987
 


 Casino front money deposits
 
 
111,763
 
 
97,586
 


 Other gaming related accruals
 
 
156,837
 
 
79,062
 


 Taxes, other than income taxes
 
 
183,576
 
 
63,888
 


 CityCenter completion guarantee
 
 
27,515
 
 
79,583
 


 Other
 
 
150,063
 
 
96,004
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,362,737
 
$
867,223
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




107



 
 NOTE 9 — LONG-TERM DEBT  
        Long-term debt consisted of the following: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Senior credit facility:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 $1,834 million term loans, net
 
$
1,728,510
 
$
1,686,043
 


 Revolving loans
 
 
1,462,000
 
 
470,000
 


 MGM Grand Paradise credit facility
 
 
552,312
 
 
-
 


 $325.5 million 8.375% senior subordinated notes, repaid in 2011
 
 
-
 
 
325,470
 


 $128.7 million 6.375% senior notes, repaid in 2011
 
 
-
 
 
128,913
 


 $534.7 million 6.75% senior notes, due 2012
 
 
534,650
 
 
544,650
 


 $462.2 million 6.75% senior notes, due 2013
 
 
462,226
 
 
484,226
 


 $150 million 7.625% senior subordinated debentures, due 2013, net
 
 
151,483
 
 
152,366
 


 $750 million 13% senior secured notes, due 2013, net
 
 
726,333
 
 
716,045
 


 $508.9 million 5.875% senior notes, due 2014, net
 
 
508,231
 
 
507,922
 


 $650 million 10.375% senior secured notes, due 2014, net
 
 
640,051
 
 
636,578
 


 $875 million 6.625% senior notes, due 2015, net
 
 
877,208
 
 
877,747
 


 $1,450 million 4.25% convertible senior notes, due 2015, net
 
 
1,465,287
 
 
1,150,000
 


 $242.9 million 6.875% senior notes, due 2016
 
 
242,900
 
 
242,900
 


 $732.7 million 7.5% senior notes, due 2016
 
 
732,749
 
 
732,749
 


 $500 million 10% senior notes, due 2016, net
 
 
495,317
 
 
494,600
 


 $743 million 7.625% senior notes, due 2017
 
 
743,000
 
 
743,000
 


 $850 million 11.125% senior secured notes, due 2017, net
 
 
832,245
 
 
830,234
 


 $475 million 11.375% senior notes, due 2018, net
 
 
464,928
 
 
463,869
 


 $845 million 9% senior secured notes, due 2020
 
 
845,000
 
 
845,000
 


 Floating rate convertible senior debentures, due 2033
 
 
36
 
 
8,472
 


 $0.6 million 7% debentures, due 2036, net
 
 
572
 
 
573
 


 $4.3 million 6.7% debentures, due 2096
 
 
4,265
 
 
4,265
 


 Other notes
 
 
864
 
 
2,076
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
13,470,167
 
$
12,047,698
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        In December 2011, the Company borrowed an additional $778 million under its senior credit facility to increase its capacity for issuing
additional secured indebtedness; such borrowings were repaid in January 2012. In January 2012, the Company issued $850 million of senior notes, as described further below. As a result of these
transactions, as of December 31, 2011, long-term debt due within one year of the balance sheet date was classified as long-term. Amounts outstanding under the MGM Grand
Paradise credit facility were classified as long-term as MGM Grand Paradise has both the intent and ability to repay amortization payments under the term loan due within one year of the
balance sheet date with available borrowings under the revolving loan. As of December 31, 2010, long-term debt due within one year of the balance sheet date was classified as
long-term because the Company had both the intent and ability to repay these amounts with available borrowings under the senior credit facility. 
108



 
        Interest
expense, net consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Total interest incurred
 
$
1,086,865
 
$
1,113,580
 
$
1,028,673
 


 Interest capitalized
 
 
(33
)
 
-
 
 
(253,242
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
1,086,832
 
$
1,113,580
 
$
775,431
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




         Senior credit facility. At December 31, 2011, the Company's senior credit facility, which was amended and extended in March 2010, matures in
February 2014 and consists of approximately $1.8 billion in term loans and a $1.7 billion revolving loan. Including the $778 million drawdown on the credit facility discussed
above, the Company had approximately $957 million of available borrowing capacity under its senior credit facility at December 31, 2011. Substantially all of the assets of MGM Grand
Detroit serve as collateral to secure its $450 million obligation outstanding as a co-borrower under the Company's senior credit facility. In addition, substantially all of the
assets of Gold Strike Tunica and certain land across from the Luxor serve as collateral to secure up to $300 million of obligations outstanding under the Company's senior credit facility. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, interest on the senior credit facility was based on a LIBOR margin of 5.00%, with a LIBOR floor of 2.00%, and a base rate margin of 4.00%, with a base
rate floor of 4.00%. The interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the senior credit facility at both December 31, 2011 and 2010 was 7.0%. 
        The
Company accounted for the modification related to the March 2010 extending term loans as an extinguishment of debt because the applicable cash flows under the extended term loans
were more than 10% different from the applicable cash flows under the previous loans. Therefore, the extended term loans were recorded at fair value resulting in a $181 million gain and a
discount of $181 million to be amortized to interest expense over the term of the extended term loans. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized
$42 million and $31 million, respectively, of interest expense related to such discount amortization. Fair value of the estimated term loans was based on trading prices immediately after
the transaction. In addition, the Company wrote off $15 million of existing debt issuance costs related to the previous term loans and expensed $22 million for new debt issuance costs
incurred related to amounts paid to extending term loan lenders in connection with the modification. The Company also wrote off $2 million of existing debt issuance costs related to the
reduction in capacity under the non-extending revolving portion of the senior credit facility. In total, the Company recognized a net pre-tax gain on extinguishment of debt of
$142 million in "Other, net" non-operating income (expense) in the first quarter of 2010. 
        Because
net proceeds from the Company's October 2010 common stock offering were in excess of $500 million, the Company was required to ratably repay indebtedness under the senior
credit facility of $6 million, which equaled 50% of such excess. The Company used the net proceeds from its October 2010 senior notes offering and a portion of the net proceeds from its October
2010 common stock offering discussed in Note 12 to repay the remaining amounts owed to non-extending lenders under its senior credit facility. Loans and revolving commitments
aggregating approximately $3.6 billion were extended to February 21, 2014. In November 2010, the underwriters of the Company's common stock offering exercised their overallotment option
and purchased an additional 6.1 million shares for net proceeds to the Company of $76 million, 50% of which was used to ratably repay indebtedness under the senior credit facility. As a
result of these transactions the Company recorded a pre-tax loss on retirement of debt related to unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts of $9 million recorded in "Other,
net" non-operating income (expense) in 2010. 
109



 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the senior credit facility allowed the Company to refinance indebtedness maturing prior to February 21, 2014, but limited its ability to prepay
later maturing indebtedness until the extended facilities are paid in full. The Company may issue unsecured debt, equity-linked and equity securities to refinance its outstanding indebtedness;
however, the Company was required to use net proceeds (a) from certain indebtedness issued in amounts in excess of $250 million (excluding amounts used to refinance indebtedness) and
(b) from equity issued, other than in exchange for its
indebtedness, in amounts in excess of $500 million (which limit the Company reached with its October 2010 stock offering) to ratably prepay the credit facilities, in each case, in an amount
equal to 50% of the net cash proceeds of such excess. Under the February 2012 restated senior credit facility discussed below, the Company is no longer required to use net proceeds from equity
offerings to prepay the restated senior credit facility. 
        At
December 31, 2011, the Company and its restricted subsidiaries were required under the senior credit facility to maintain a minimum trailing annual EBITDA (as defined in the
agreement governing the Company's senior credit facility) of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2011. EBITDA for the trailing twelve months ended December 31, 2011 calculated in
accordance with the terms of the senior credit facility was $1.28 billion. Additionally, the Company and its restricted subsidiaries were limited to $500 million of annual capital
expenditures (as defined) during 2011; the Company was in compliance with the maximum capital expenditures covenants at December 31, 2011. The Company is limited to $500 million of
capital expenditures in 2012. 
         February 2012 senior credit facility amendment. The Company's senior credit facility was amended and restated in February 2012, and consists of
approximately $1.8 billion in term loans and a $1.3 billion revolver. Under the restated senior credit facility, loans and revolving commitments aggregating approximately
$1.8 billion (the "extending loans") were extended to February 2015. The extending loans are subject to a pricing grid that decreases the LIBOR spread by as much as 250 basis points
based upon collateral coverage levels at any given time (commencing 45 days after the restatement effective date) and the LIBOR floor on extended loans is reduced from 200 basis points to
100 basis points. 
        The
restated senior credit facility allows the Company to refinance indebtedness maturing prior to February 23, 2015 but limits its ability to prepay later maturing indebtedness
until the extended facilities are paid in full. The Company may issue unsecured debt, equity-linked and equity securities to refinance its outstanding indebtedness; however, the Company is required to
use net proceeds from certain indebtedness issued in amounts in excess of $250 million (excluding amounts used to refinance indebtedness) to ratably prepay the credit facilities in an amount
equal to 50% of the net cash proceeds of such excess. Under the restated senior credit facility the Company is no longer required to use net proceeds from equity offerings to prepay the restated
senior credit facility. In connection with the restated senior credit facility, the Company agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to deliver a mortgage, limited in amount to comply with the
indenture restrictions, encumbering the Beau Rivage within 90 days from the effective date of the restated loan agreement. Upon the issuance of such mortgage, the holders of the Company's 13%
senior secured notes due 2013 would obtain an equal and ratable lien in the collateral. 
        Under
the amended senior credit facility, the Company and its restricted subsidiaries are required to maintain a minimum trailing annual EBITDA (as defined in the agreement governing its
senior credit facility) of $1.2 billion for each of the quarters of 2012, increasing to $1.25 billion at March 31, 2013, to $1.3 billion at June 30, 2013, and to
$1.4 billion at March 31, 2014. Capital expenditure limits previously in place under the senior credit facility did not change with the amendment. 
         MGM Grand Paradise credit facility. MGM Grand Paradise's credit facility is comprised of approximately $552 million in term loans and a
$400 million revolving loan. The outstanding balance of MGM Grand Paradise's credit facility at December 31, 2011 is comprised solely of the $552 million term loans. Scheduled
amortization on the term loan begins in July 2012, with a lump sum payment of approximately $276 million upon final maturity in July 2015. The revolving loan may be redrawn, but is required to
be repaid in full on the last date of the respective term loan, no later than July 2015. Interest 
110



 
on
the term loan facility is based on HIBOR plus a margin ranging between 3% and 4.5%, based on MGM Grand Paradise's adjusted leverage ratio, as defined in its credit facility agreement. Interest on
the revolving facility can be denominated in either Hong Kong dollars or U.S. dollars and is based on the same margin range, plus HIBOR or LIBOR, as appropriate. As of December 31, 2011, the
credit facility is denominated entirely in Hong Kong dollars and interest is based on the margin range of 3%, plus HIBOR. Substantially all of the assets of MGM Grand Paradise serve as collateral for
the MGM Grand Paradise credit facility, which is guaranteed by MGM China and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries. 
        At
December 31, 2011, MGM Grand Paradise was required to maintain a specified adjusted leverage ratio, as defined, at the end of each quarter while the loans are outstanding. The
adjusted leverage ratio is required to be no greater than 4.00 to 1.00 for each quarter during 2011 and no greater than 3.50 to 1.00 thereafter. In addition, MGM Grand Paradise is required to maintain
a debt service coverage ratio, as defined of no less than 1.50 to 1.00 at each quarter end. At December 31, 2011, MGM Grand Paradise was in compliance with its adjusted leverage ratio and debt
service coverage ratios. 
         Senior convertible notes. In April 2010, the Company issued $1.15 billion of 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 for net proceeds to the
Company of $1.12 billion. The notes are general unsecured obligations of the Company and rank equally in right of payment with the Company's other existing senior unsecured indebtedness. The
Company used the net proceeds from the senior convertible note issuance to temporarily repay amounts outstanding under its senior credit facility. 
        The
notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate of approximately 53.83 shares of the Company's common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, representing an initial
conversion price of approximately $18.58 per share of the Company's common stock. The initial conversion rate was determined based on the closing trading price of the Company's common stock on the
date of the
transaction, plus a 27.5% premium. The terms of the notes do not provide for any beneficial conversion features. 
        In
connection with the offering, the Company entered into capped call transactions to reduce the potential dilution of the Company's stock upon conversion of the notes. The capped call
transactions have a cap price equal to approximately $21.86 per share. The Company paid approximately $81 million for the capped call transactions, which is reflected as a decrease in "Capital
in excess of par value," net of $29 million of associated tax benefits. 
        Financial
instruments that are indexed to an entity's own stock and are classified as stockholders' equity in an entity's statement of financial position are not considered within the
scope of derivative instruments. The Company performed an evaluation of the embedded conversion option and capped call transactions, which included an analysis of contingent exercise provisions and
settlement requirements, and determined that the embedded conversion option and capped call transactions are considered indexed to the Company's stock and should be classified as equity, and therefore
are not accounted for as derivative instruments. Accordingly, the entire face amount of the notes was recorded as debt until converted or retired at maturity, and the capped call transactions were
recorded within equity as described above. 
        In
June 2011, the Company sold an additional $300 million in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.25% convertible senior notes due 2015 (the "Notes") on terms that were
consistent with those governing the Company's existing convertible senior notes due 2015 for a purchase price of 103.805% of the principal amount to an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of
Ms. Pansy Ho in a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Notes are convertible at an initial conversion rate, subject to adjustment under certain
circumstances, of approximately 53.83 shares of the Company's common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes. The Company received approximately $311 million in proceeds related to this
transaction. The initial agreement to sell the Notes occurred in April 2011, and the Notes were not sold until June 2011. The agreement to issue the Notes at a later date based on the fixed terms
described above constituted a derivative instrument. At issuance, the 
111



 
fair
value of the derivative instrument was equal to the difference between the fair value of the Notes and the Notes' issuance price. The Notes were recorded at fair value determined by the trading
price (105.872%) of the Company's existing convertible notes on the date of issuance of the Notes, with the difference recorded as a premium to be recognized over the term of the Notes. The Company
recorded a loss of $6 million related to the change in fair value of the derivative in "Other, net" non-operating income (expense) during the second quarter of 2011. 
         Senior and senior secured notes. In February 2011, the Company repaid the $325 million of outstanding principal amount of its 8.375% senior
subordinated notes due 2011 at maturity and in December 2011, the Company repaid the $129 million of outstanding principal of its 6.375% senior notes due 2011 at maturity. 
        In
addition, during the third quarter of 2011 the Company repurchased $10 million principal amount of its 6.75% senior notes due 2012 and $22 million principal amount of
its 6.75% senior notes due 2013 in open market repurchases and recognized a gain of approximately $1 million in "Other, net" non-operating income (expense) related to these transactions. 
        In
February 2010, the Company repaid the $297 million of outstanding principal amount of its 9.375% senior subordinated notes due 2010 at maturity. During the second quarter of
2010, the Company repurchased $136 million principal amount of its 8.5% senior notes due 2010 and $75 million principal amount of its 8.375% senior notes due 2011 essentially at par. In
September 2010, the Company repaid the remaining $646 million of outstanding principal of its 8.5% senior notes due 2010 at maturity. 
        In
March 2010, the Company issued $845 million of 9% senior secured notes due 2020 for net proceeds to the Company of approximately $826 million. The notes are secured by
the equity interests and substantially all of the assets of MGM Grand Las Vegas and otherwise rank equally in right of payment with the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness. Upon the
issuance of such notes, the holders of the Company's 13% senior notes due 2013 obtained an equal and ratable lien in all collateral securing these notes. The Company used the net proceeds from the
senior note issuance to permanently repay approximately $820 million of loans previously outstanding under its credit facility. 
        In
October 2010, the Company issued $500 million of 10% senior notes due 2016, issued at a discount to yield 10.25%, for net proceeds to the Company of approximately
$486 million. The notes are unsecured and otherwise rank equally in right of payment with the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness. 
        Substantially
all of the assets of New York-New York serve as collateral for the Company's 13% senior secured notes due 2013, substantially all of the assets of Bellagio and
The Mirage serve as collateral for the Company's 10.375% senior secured notes due 2014 and the 11.125% senior secured notes due 2017, and substantially all of the assets of MGM Grand serve as
collateral for the Company's 9.00% senior secured notes due 2020. Upon the issuance of the 10.375%, 11.125% and 9.00% notes, the holders of the Company's 13% senior secured notes due 2013 obtained an
equal and ratable lien in all collateral securing these notes. 
         Repurchases of senior notes. Subject to certain limitations under its senior credit facility and senior note
indentures, the Company and its subsidiaries may from time to time, in their sole discretion, purchase, repay, redeem or retire any of the Company's outstanding debt securities, in privately
negotiated or open market transactions, by tender offer or otherwise pursuant to authorization of the Company's Board of Directors. 
        January 2012 debt issuance. In January 2012 the Company issued $850 million of 8.625% senior notes due 2019 for net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $836 million. The notes are unsecured and otherwise rank equally in right of payment with the Company's existing and future senior indebtedness. 
112



 
        Maturities of long-term debt. Maturities of the Company's long-term debt as of December 31, 2011 are as follows: 













 
 
(In thousands) 
 


 Years ending December 31,
 
 
 
 


 2012
 
$
563,155
 


 2013
 
 
1,445,073
 


 2014
 
 
4,565,489
 


 2015
 
 
2,656,387
 


 2016
 
 
1,475,649
 


 Thereafter
 
 
2,917,854
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
 
13,623,607
 


 Debt premiums and discounts, net
 
 
(153,440
)


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
13,470,167
 


 
 
 
 




         Fair value of long-term debt. The estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt at December 31, 2011 was
approximately $13.7 billion. Fair value was estimated using quoted market prices for the Company's senior notes, senior subordinated notes and senior credit facility. Carrying value of the MGM
Grand Paradise credit facility approximates fair value. At December 31, 2010, the estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt was approximately $12.4 billion, and
was based on quoted market prices. 
 NOTE 10 — INCOME TAXES  
        The Company recognizes deferred income tax assets, net of applicable reserves, related to net operating loss carryforwards and certain
temporary differences. The Company recognizes future tax benefits to the extent that realization of such benefit is more likely than not. Otherwise, a valuation allowance is applied. 
        Consolidated
income (loss) before taxes for domestic and foreign operations consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Domestic operations
 
$
(902,613
)
$
(2,309,317
)
$
(2,003,584
)


 Foreign operations
 
 
3,734,244
 
 
93,292
 
 
(9,009
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,831,631
 
$
(2,216,025
)
$
(2,012,593
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




113



 
        The income tax provision (benefit) attributable to loss before income taxes is as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Federal
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
$

1,237
 
$

(186,444
)
$

(391,281
)


 Deferred (excluding operating loss carryforward)
 
 
(57,573
)
 
(404,522
)
 
(280,603
)


 Deferred—operating loss carryforward
 
 
(260,167
)
 
(225,589
)
 
-
 


 Other noncurrent
 
 
2,812
 
 
5,167
 
 
7,891
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Benefit for federal income taxes
 
 
(313,691
)
 
(811,388
)
 
(663,993
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 State
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
 

4,482
 
 

7,262
 
 

1,105
 


 Deferred (excluding separate components)
 
 
(9,472
)
 
(13,739
)
 
(52,860
)


 Deferred—operating loss carryforward
 
 
3,357
 
 
(9,619
)
 
(6,357
)


 Deferred—valuation allowance
 
 
7,787
 
 
49,208
 
 
-
 


 Deferred—enacted changes in tax laws or rates
 
 
12,743
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Other noncurrent
 
 
1,320
 
 
(1,707
)
 
1,125
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Provision (benefit) for state income taxes
 
 
20,217
 
 
31,405
 
 
(56,987
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Foreign
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current
 
 

3,800
 
 

1,355
 
 

69
 


 Deferred
 
 
(113,639
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Provision (benefit) for foreign income taxes
 
 
(109,839
)
 
1,355
 
 
69
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(403,313
)
$
(778,628
)
$
(720,911
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        A reconciliation of the federal income tax statutory rate and the Company's effective tax rate is as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Federal income tax statutory rate
 
 
35.0
%
 
35.0
%
 
35.0
%


 State income tax (net of federal benefit)
 
 
0.3
 
 
0.5
 
 
1.9
 


 State valuation allowance
 
 
0.2
 
 
(1.5
)
 
-
 


 Foreign jurisdiction income/losses taxed at other than 35%
 
 
(2.1
)
 
1.2
 
 
(0.4
)


 Foreign jurisdiction tax rate change
 
 
(4.6
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 MGM China acquisition gain
 
 
(43.2
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Tax credits
 
 
(0.2
)
 
0.2
 
 
0.2
 


 Permanent and other items
 
 
0.4
 
 
(0.3
)
 
(0.9
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 (14.2
)%
 
35.1
%
 
35.8
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




114




 









        The
major tax-effected components of the Company's net deferred tax liability are as follows: 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Deferred tax assets—federal and state
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Bad debt reserve
 
$
36,901
 
$
43,007
 


 Deferred compensation
 
 
2,895
 
 
14,278
 


 Net operating loss carryforward
 
 
492,515
 
 
237,178
 


 Accruals, reserves and other
 
 
59,874
 
 
80,498
 


 Investments in unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
340,051
 
 
359,849
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
56,912
 
 
51,582
 


 Tax credits
 
 
29,716
 
 
27,774
 


 Michigan Business Tax deferred asset, net
 
 
-
 
 
39,068
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,018,864
 
 
853,234
 


 Less: Valuation allowance
 
 
(8,779
)
 
(35,723
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,010,085
 
 
817,511
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax assets—foreign
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Bad debt reserve
 
 
2,273
 
 
-
 


 Net operating loss carryforward
 
 
50,745
 
 
-
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
8,898
 
 
-
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
2,378
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
64,294
 
 
-
 


 Less: Valuation allowance
 
 
(63,222
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,072
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred tax assets
 
$
1,011,157
 
$
817,511
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax liabilities—federal and state
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property and equipment
 
 
(2,659,471
)
 
(2,719,201
)


 Long-term debt
 
 
(359,873
)
 
(366,324
)


 Cost method investments
 
 
(34,239
)
 
(41,849
)


 Intangibles
 
 
(100,099
)
 
(106,564
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
(3,153,682
)
 
(3,233,938
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax liabilities—foreign
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accruals, reserves and other
 
 
(12,527
)
 
-
 


 Intangibles
 
 
(255,984
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
(268,511
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred tax liability
 
$
(3,422,193
)
$
(3,233,938
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net deferred tax liability
 
$
(2,411,036
)
$
(2,416,427
)


 
 
 
 
 
 




        As discussed in Note 2, the Company identified certain errors related to deferred tax liabilities in its financial statements for years
prior to 2009. Such errors have been corrected in the accompanying financial statements. The 2010 components of the Company's net deferred tax liability disclosed in the
table above reflect adjustments to correct amounts previously presented as a result of the errors. The deferred tax asset related to "Investments in unconsolidated affiliates" was reduced by
$74 million, the deferred tax liabilities related to "Property and equipment" and "Long-term debt" were decreased by $12 million and $4 million, respectively and
"Valuation allowance" was decreased by $1 million. 
115



 
        The
Company recorded a net deferred tax liability of $381 million at June 3, 2011 for the acquisition of the controlling financial interest in MGM China and a corresponding
increase to goodwill. The net deferred tax liability represented the excess on the acquisition date of the financial reporting amounts of the net assets of MGM China over their respective bases under
Macau tax law measured at the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods such differences are expected to be realized, net of a valuation allowance. 
        Income
generated from gaming operations of MGM Grand Paradise, which is wholly owned by MGM China, is exempted from Macau's 12% complementary tax for the five-year period
ending December 31, 2016 pursuant to approval from the Macau government granted on September 22, 2011. Absent this exemption, "Net income attributable to MGM Resorts International" would
have been reduced by $18 million or $0.03 per share. The approval granted in 2011 represented the second five-year exemption period granted to MGM Grand Paradise. When measuring the
net deferred tax liability at June 3, 2011, the Company did not assume an extension of this exemption beyond December 31, 2016. However, during the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company
changed its assumption concerning the granting of an additional five-year exemption period because a competitor of MGM Grand Paradise was granted during such quarter a third
five-year exemption. Therefore the Company believes MGM Grand Paradise should also be entitled to a third five-year exemption in order to ensure non-discriminatory
treatment among gaming concessionaires and sub-concessionaires, a requirement under Macanese law. Accordingly, the Company decreased this net deferred liability by $129 million
during the fourth quarter of 2011 with a corresponding increase to income tax benefit. 
        Non-gaming
operations remain subject to the Macau complementary tax. MGM Grand Paradise had at December 31, 2011 a complementary tax net operating loss carryforward of
$423 million resulting from non-gaming operations that will expire if not utilized against non-gaming income in years 2012 through 2014. The Macanese net operating loss
carryforwards are fully offset by valuation allowance. 
        MGM
Grand Paradise's exemption from the Macau 12% complementary tax on gaming profits does not apply to dividend distributions of such profits to MGM China. The complementary tax would
be levied on MGM China at the time such profits are distributed. MGM Grand Paradise has submitted a request to the Macau government to settle the complementary tax that would be due on such
distributions by paying a flat annual fee ("Annual Fee Arrangement") regardless of the amount of distributable dividends. MGM China would not be subject to the complementary tax on such distributions
if the annual fee arrangement were in place. Since this arrangement was not in place at December 31, 2011, the Company has provided deferred taxes in the amount of $15 million on the
U.S. GAAP earnings of MGM Grand Paradise from the date of the acquisition of the controlling financial interest and will continue to do so until an arrangement is in place. Since gaming profits
subject to the complementary tax on dividend distributions exceed such U.S. GAAP earnings, a distribution of such gaming profits before the annual fee arrangement is put in place could result
in the accrual of additional complementary tax in the period such distribution is made. 
        In
February 2012, the board of directors of MGM Grand Paradise declared a distribution to MGM China that will be subject to complementary tax in the amount of $59 million if the
Annual Fee Arrangement is not put in place before the tax is due (no later than June 30, 2013). If the Annual Fee Arrangement is not in place before March 31, 2012, the Company will
provide an additional $44 million of complementary tax above what it would have otherwise accrued on a U.S. GAAP basis in the first quarter of 2012. All complementary tax provided on
gaming profits would be reversed in the period the Annual Fee Arrangement is put in place and the agreed annual fee would be accrued in its place. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the Company had an excess amount for financial reporting over the U.S. tax basis of its investment in MGM China of $3.8 billion that management
does not consider to be essentially permanent in duration. The Company expects this basis difference to resolve through repatriations of future MGM China earnings. The Company has not provided U.S.
deferred taxes for such excess financial 
116



 
reporting
basis because it believes there would be sufficient foreign tax credits to offset all U.S. income tax that would result from the future repatriation of such earnings. 
        For
U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Company has a net operating loss carryforward of $1.4 billion that will begin to expire in 2030, an alternative minimum tax credit
carryforward of $12 million that will not expire and a general business tax credit carryforward of $15 million that will begin to expire in 2029. The Company also has a charitable
contribution carryforward of $7 million that will begin to expire in 2014 and a foreign tax credit carryforward of $2 million that will expire if not utilized by 2015. 
        At
December 31, 2011 the Company was close to the ownership change threshold set forth in Internal Revenue Code section 382 as a result of transactions in its stock over
the past several years. Should an ownership change occur in a future period, the Company's U.S. federal income tax net operating losses and tax credits incurred prior to the ownership change would
generally be subject to a post-change annual usage limitation equal to the value of the Company at the time of
the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax exempt rate at such time as established by the IRS. The Company does not anticipate that this limitation would prevent the utilization
of the Company's net operating losses and tax credits prior to their expiration or materially impact the cash taxes payable in future years. 
        For
state income tax purposes, the Company has Illinois and New Jersey net operating loss carryforwards of $59 million and $103 million, respectively, which equates to
deferred tax assets, after federal tax effect and before valuation allowance, of $3 million and $6 million, respectively. The Illinois net operating loss carryforwards will begin to
expire if not utilized by 2021. The New Jersey net operating loss carryforwards will expire if not utilized by various dates from 2012 through 2031. 
        The
state of Michigan enacted during 2011 changes in its corporate tax law that became effective on January 1, 2012. The state replaced the Michigan Business Tax ("MBT") regime
with a new Corporate Income Tax ("CIT") regime that taxes unitary combined income apportioned to the state at a 6% rate. Net operating loss carryforwards generated under the MBT, of which the Company
had $198 million at December 31, 2011, may not be carried over and utilized under the CIT. Losses generated under the CIT will have a 10 year carryforward period. Furthermore, the
book-tax difference deduction, which would have been available under the MBT in 2015 through 2029, is not available under the CIT. The Company recorded during 2011 an increase to the net
Michigan deferred tax liability in the amount of $8 million, after federal effect, to reflect the impact of this tax law change, with a corresponding reduction to income tax benefit. 
        During
2011, the state of Illinois enacted increases to its corporate income tax rate and also suspended the use of net operating loss carryforwards for three years, effective beginning
2011. The impact of this tax law change on the net Illinois deferred tax liability was less than $1 million. 
        At
December 31, 2011, there is a $6 million valuation allowance, after federal effect, provided on certain state deferred tax assets, a valuation allowance of
$2 million on the U.S. foreign tax credit and a valuation allowance of $63 million on certain Macau deferred tax assets because management believes these assets do not meet the "more
likely than not" criteria for recognition. Given the negative impact of the U.S. economy on the results of operations in the past several years and expectations that our recovery will be tempered by
certain aspects of the current economic conditions such as weaknesses in employment conditions and the housing market, the Company no longer relies on future domestic operating income in assessing the
realizability of its domestic deferred tax assets and now relies only on the future reversal of existing domestic taxable temporary differences. Since the future reversal of existing U.S. federal
taxable temporary differences currently exceeds the future reversal of existing U.S. federal deductible temporary differences, the Company continued to conclude that it is more likely than not that
its U.S federal deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2011, other than the foreign tax credit carryforward, are realizable. The Company anticipates that the future reversal of its U.S. federal
deductible temporary differences could exceed the future reversal of its U.S. federal taxable temporary differences as early as the first quarter of 
117



 
2012,
in which case the Company would record a valuation allowance for such excess with a corresponding reduction of federal income tax benefit on its statement of operations. 
        The
Company assesses its tax positions using a two-step process. A tax position is recognized if it meets a "more likely than not" threshold, and is measured at the largest
amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized. Uncertain tax positions must be reviewed at each balance sheet date. Liabilities recorded as a result of this
analysis must generally be recorded separately from any current or deferred income tax accounts, and at December 31, 2011, the Company has classified $29 million as current in "Other
accrued liabilities" and $112 million as long-term in "Other long-term obligations," based on the time until expected payment. 
        A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Gross unrecognized tax benefits at January 1
 
$
134,417
 
$
161,377
 
$
102,783
 


 Gross increases – Prior period tax positions
 
 
9,360
 
 
16,431
 
 
13,890
 


 Gross decreases – Prior period tax positions
 
 
(13,772
)
 
(40,347
)
 
(10,372
)


 Gross increases – Current period tax positions
 
 
15,794
 
 
14,995
 
 
60,286
 


 Settlements with taxing authorities
 
 
-
 
 
(14,844
)
 
(5,210
)


 Lapse in statutes of limitations
 
 
-
 
 
(3,195
)
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross unrecognized tax benefits at December 31
 
$
145,799
 
$
134,417
 
$
161,377
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The total amount of net unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate was $32 million and
$30 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        The
Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The Company had $26 million in interest related to unrecognized
tax benefits accrued at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. No amounts were accrued for penalties as of either date. Income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009
includes interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of $0 million, $8 million, and $8 million, respectively. 
        The
Company files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various state and local jurisdictions, and foreign jurisdictions, although the taxes paid in foreign jurisdictions
are not material. As of December 31, 2011, the Company is no longer subject to examination of its U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns filed for years ended prior to 2005. The IRS
completed its examination of the Company's consolidated federal income tax returns for the 2003 and 2004 tax years during 2010 and the Company paid $12 million in tax and $4 million in
associated interest with respect to adjustments to which it agreed. In addition, the Company submitted a protest to IRS Appeals of certain adjustments to which it did not agree. The Company expects
the issues subject to appeal will be settled within the next 12 months. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the IRS opened an examination of the Company's consolidated federal income tax returns
for the 2005 through 2009 tax years. It is reasonably possible that the IRS will complete this examination within the next 12 months and the Company may agree to certain adjustments and protest
others. 
        During
the first quarter of 2011, the IRS opened audits of the 2007 through 2008 tax years of CityCenter Holdings LLC, an unconsolidated affiliate treated as a partnership for
income tax purposes and the 2008 through 2009 tax years of MGM Grand Detroit LLC, a subsidiary treated as a partnership for income tax purposes. It is reasonably possible that the IRS will
complete these examinations within the next 12 months and the Company may agree to certain adjustments and protest others. 
118



 
        The
Company reached settlement during 2010 with IRS Appeals with respect to the audit of the 2004 through 2006 tax years of MGM Grand Detroit, LLC. At issue was the tax treatment
of payments made under an agreement to develop, own and operate a hotel casino in the City of Detroit. The Company agreed to pay $1 million in tax for such years as a result of this settlement. 
        During
the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company and its joint venture partner reached tentative settlement with IRS Appeals with respect to the audit of the 2003 and 2004 tax years of a
cost method investee of the Company that is treated as a partnership for income tax purposes. The adjustments to which the Company agreed in such tentative settlement will be included in any
settlement that it may reach with respect to the 2003 and 2004 examination of its consolidated federal income tax return. The IRS is currently auditing the 2005 through 2009 tax years of this
investee. It is reasonably possible that the IRS will complete this examination within the next 12 months and the Company may agree to certain adjustments and protest others. 
        The
IRS closed during 2010 its examination of the federal income tax return of Mandalay Resort Group for the pre-acquisition year ended April 25, 2005 and issued a
"No-Change Letter." The statutes of limitations for assessing tax for all Mandalay Resort Group pre-acquisition years are now closed. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, other than the exceptions noted below, the Company was no longer subject to examination of its various state and local tax returns filed for years ended
prior to 2007. The state of Illinois during 2010 initiated an audit of its Illinois combined returns for the 2006 and 2007 tax years. The Company expects that this audit will close and all issues will
be settled in the next 12 months. The state of New Jersey began audit procedures during 2010 of a cost method investee of the Company's for the 2003 through 2006 tax years. No other state or
local income tax returns are currently under exam. 
        The
Company believes that it is reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 may decrease by a range of $25 to $36 million
within the next twelve months on the expectation during such period of (1) settlement of issues under appeal in connection with the IRS audit of the Company's 2003 and 2004 consolidated federal
income tax returns, and (2) the possible closure of the IRS audits of the 2005 through 2009 consolidated federal income tax returns; the 2007 through 2008 federal income tax returns of
CityCenter Holdings, LLC; the 2008 through 2009 federal income tax returns of MGM Grand Detroit, LLC and the 2005 through 2009 federal income tax returns of its cost method investee. 
 NOTE 11 — COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  
         Leases. The Company leases real estate and various equipment under operating and, to a lesser extent, capital lease arrangements. Certain real estate
leases provide for escalation of rent based upon a specified price index and/or based upon periodic appraisals. 
119



 
        At
December 31, 2011, the Company was obligated under non-cancellable operating leases and capital leases to make future minimum lease payments as follows: 
















 
 
Operating
Leases 
 
Capital
Leases 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 2012
 
$
17,920
 
$
1,409
 


 2013
 
 
12,992
 
 
287
 


 2014
 
 
6,972
 
 
213
 


 2015
 
 
4,977
 
 
213
 


 2016
 
 
3,772
 
 
142
 


 Thereafter
 
 
39,181
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total minimum lease payments
 
$
85,814
 
 
2,264
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Less: Amounts representing interest
 
 
 
 
 
(168
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total obligations under capital leases
 
 
 
 
 
2,096
 


 Less: Amounts due within one year
 
 
 
 
 
(1,472
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amounts due after one year
 
 
 
 
$
624
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The current and long-term obligations under capital leases are included in "Other accrued liabilities" and "Other
long-term obligations," respectively. Rental expense for operating leases was $30 million for 2011, $26 million for 2010, and $24 million for 2009. 
         CityCenter completion guarantee. In January 2011, the Company entered into an amended completion and cost overrun guarantee in connection with
CityCenter's restated senior credit facility agreement and issuance of $1.5 billion of senior secured first lien notes and senior secured second lien toggle notes, as previously discussed.
Consistent with the terms of the previous completion guarantee, the terms of the amended completion guarantee provide for the ability to utilize the then remaining $124 million of net
residential proceeds to fund construction costs, or to reimburse the Company for construction costs previously expended, though the timing of receipt of such proceeds is uncertain. The completion
guarantee is collateralized by substantially all of the assets of Circus Circus Las Vegas, as well as certain undeveloped land adjacent to that property. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, the Company has funded $645 million under the completion guarantee. The Company has recorded a receivable from CityCenter of $110 million
related to these amounts, which represents amounts reimbursable to the Company from CityCenter from future residential proceeds. The Company has a remaining estimated net obligation under the
completion guarantee of $28 million which includes estimated litigation costs related to the resolution of disputes with contractors as to the final construction costs and estimated amounts to
be paid to contractors either through the joint venture's extra-judicial settlement process or through the legal process related to the Perini litigation. The Company's accrual also reflects certain
estimated offsets to the amounts claimed by the contractors. CityCenter has reached, or expects to reach, settlement agreements with all but seven of Perini's first-tier subcontractors.
However, significant disputes remain with the general contractor and the remaining subcontractors. Amounts claimed by such parties exceed amounts included in the Company's completion guarantee accrual
by approximately $185 million, as such amounts exceed the Company's best estimate of its liability. Moreover, the Company has not accrued
for any contingent payments to CityCenter related to the Harmon Hotel & Spa component, which is unlikely to be completed using the building as it now stands. 
        The
Clark County Building Division (the "Building Division") retained a structural engineering consultant to provide with respect to the Harmon building "an engineering analysis to
determine the structural stability of the as-built condition." The report from the Building Division's structural engineering consultant, however, stated: "It is our understanding that the
full nature and extent of the 
120



 
current
as-built condition has not been documented or provided to us at the current time. We based this study only on information that was obtained from the available design documents,
non-compliance reports and limited visual observations." Thus, the Building Division's structural engineering consultant apparently did not perform other testing or a relevant analysis of
the building in its current, as-built condition. 
        Among
its general findings the report of the Building Division's structural engineering consultant stated: "Our analytical findings suggest that the as-designed Harmon Tower
structure is structurally stable under design loads from a maximum considered earthquake (MCE) event;" and further, "Our analysis indicates that the as-designed strength of Harmon Tower's
shear wall system is generally sufficient to resist the design loads from a maximum considered earthquake (MCE)." The report from the Building Division's structural engineering consultant recommended
further study of the Harmon building's vulnerabilities. Accordingly, since the County's consultant did not appear to have performed an as-built analysis, the report that was issued has
minimal value if any in resolution of the issues presented to the Company's pending litigation with Perini. 
        The
Building Division requested that CityCenter conduct an analysis, based on all available information, as to the structural stability of the Harmon under
building-code-specified load combinations. On July 11, 2011 a consulting engineer engaged by CityCenter for this review submitted the results of his analysis of the
Harmon tower and podium in its current as-built condition. The engineer opined, among other things, that "[i]n a code-level earthquake, using either the
permitted or current code specified loads, it is likely that critical structural members in the tower will fail and become incapable of supporting gravity loads, leading to a partial or complete
collapse of the tower. There is missing or misplaced reinforcing steel in columns, beams, shear walls, and transfer walls throughout the structure of the tower below the twenty-first floor." In
response to this opinion, on July 12, 2011 the Building Division required CityCenter, no later than August 15, 2011, "to provide a plan of action that will abate the potential for
structural collapse and protect impacted uses and occupancies." Under the relevant building code provision, "abate" means repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal of the subject building. 
        On
August 15, 2011, after expert consultation, CityCenter submitted its reply to the Building Division. CityCenter informed the Building Division it has decided to abate the
potential for structural collapse of the Harmon in the event of a code-level earthquake by demolishing the building, and enclosed a plan of action for demolition by implosion prepared by
LVI Environmental Services of Nevada, Inc. CityCenter also advised that prior to undertaking the demolition plan of action, it will seek relief from a standing order of the District Court judge
presiding over the Perini litigation that prohibits alteration or destruction of the building without court approval. In addition, CityCenter supplied the foundational data for the engineering
conclusions stated in the July 11, 2011 letter declaring the Harmon's structural instability in the event of a code-level earthquake. 
        The
Building Division advised CityCenter that the Building Division's staff would review CityCenter's August 15, 2011 submission and then issue its conclusions to CityCenter, but
the Building Division did not specify a date for such guidance. By letter dated August 18, 2011, the Building Division requested a meeting with CityCenter's retained engineering firm concerning
its conclusions regarding the Harmon's as-built condition. Pursuant to this request by the Building Division, representatives from CityCenter's retained engineering firm met with the
Building Division and directly responded to the Building Division's inquiries. 
        On
November 22, 2011, the Building Division informed CityCenter by letter that "[b]ased on the information provided to Clark County Development Services
including but not limited to the Weidlinger & Associates Letter of August 11, 2011 and subsequent conversations, it is required that MGM Resorts submit a plan abating the code
deficiencies discovered in the Harmon Tower." CityCenter has made a motion to the court presiding over the Perini litigation for permission to proceed with the demolition of the Harmon in advance of
the conclusion of the litigation. That motion is set for hearing on March 12, 2012. CityCenter has also resubmitted the plan of abatement action prepared by LVI which was submitted 
121



 
on
August 15, 2011, and applied to the Building Division for appropriate demolition permits and approvals. Those applications are pending. 
        The
Company does not believe it would be responsible for funding under the completion guarantee any additional remediation efforts that might be required with respect to the Harmon;
however, the Company's view is based on a number of developing factors, including with respect to on-going litigation with CityCenter's contractors, actions by local officials and other
developments related to the CityCenter venture, that are subject to change. CityCenter's restated senior credit facility provides that certain demolition expenses may be funded only by equity
contributions from the members of the CityCenter venture or certain specified extraordinary receipts (which include
any proceeds from the Perini litigation). Based on current estimates, which are subject to change, the Company believes the demolition of the Harmon would cost approximately $31 million. 
         CityCenter construction litigation. In March 2010, Perini Building Company, Inc. ("Perini"), general contractor for CityCenter, filed a
lawsuit in the Eighth Judicial District Court for Clark County, State of Nevada, against MGM MIRAGE Design Group (a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company which was the original party to the Perini
construction agreement) and certain direct or indirect subsidiaries of CityCenter Holdings, LLC (the "CityCenter Owners"). Perini asserts that CityCenter was substantially completed, but the
defendants failed to pay Perini approximately $490 million allegedly due and owing under the construction agreement for labor, equipment and materials expended on CityCenter. The complaint
further charges the defendants with failure to provide timely and complete design documents, late delivery to Perini of design changes, mismanagement of the change order process, obstruction of
Perini's ability to complete the Harmon component, and fraudulent inducement of Perini to compromise significant amounts due for its general conditions. The complaint advances claims for breach of
contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, tortious breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust enrichment and promissory estoppel, and fraud
and intentional misrepresentation. Perini seeks compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorneys' fees and costs. 
        In
April 2010, Perini served an amended complaint in this case which joins as defendants many owners of CityCenter residential condominium units (the "Condo Owner Defendants"), adds a
count for foreclosure of Perini's recorded master mechanic's lien against the CityCenter property in the amount of approximately $491 million, and asserts the priority of this mechanic's lien
over the interests of the CityCenter Owners, the Condo Owner Defendants and CityCenter lenders in the CityCenter property. 
        The
CityCenter Owners and the other defendants dispute Perini's allegations, and contend that the defendants are entitled to substantial amounts from Perini, including offsets against
amounts claimed to be owed to Perini and its subcontractors and damages based on breach of their contractual and other duties to CityCenter, duplicative payment requests, non-conforming
work, lack of proof of alleged work performance, defective work related to the Harmon, property damage and Perini's failure to perform its obligations to pay certain subcontractors and to prevent
filing of liens against CityCenter. Parallel to the court litigation, CityCenter management conducted an extra-judicial program for settlement of CityCenter subcontractor claims. CityCenter has
resolved the claims of 215 first-tier Perini subcontractors (including the claims of any lower-tier subcontractors that might have claims through those first-tier
subcontractors), with only seven remaining for further proceedings along with trial of Perini's claims and CityCenter's Harmon-related counterclaim and other claims by CityCenter against Perini and
its parent guarantor, Tutor Perini. Three of the remaining subcontractors are implicated in the defective work at the Harmon. In December 2010, Perini recorded an amended notice of lien reducing its
lien to approximately $313 million. Because of settlements with subcontractors, CityCenter believes it is entitled to a further lien reduction of approximately $133 million (for a
revised lien amount of $186 million, including certain liens not related to Perini's lien) once the Company has provided the court and Perini with the required information. 
        The
court has set a trial date of February 4, 2013 for the consolidated action involving Perini, the remaining Perini subcontractors and any related third parties. The CityCenter
Owners and the other 
122



 
defendants
will continue to vigorously assert and protect their interests in the Perini lawsuit. The Company believes that a loss with respect to Perini's punitive damages claim is neither probable
nor reasonably possible. Please refer to the disclosure above for further discussion on the Company's completion guarantee obligation which may be impacted by the outcome of the above litigation and
the joint venture's extra-judicial settlement process. 
         Sales and use tax on complimentary meals.    In March 2008, the Nevada Supreme Court ruled, in a case involving another gaming company,
that food and
non-alcoholic beverages purchased for use in providing complimentary meals to customers and to employees were exempt from use tax. The Company had previously paid use tax on these items
and has generally filed for refunds for the periods from January 2001 to February 2008 related to this matter. The Company is claiming the exemption on sales and use tax returns for periods after
February 2008 in light of this Nevada Supreme Court decision and has not accrued or paid any sales or use tax for those periods. Recently the Nevada Department of Taxation has asserted that gaming
companies should pay sales tax on customer complimentary meals and employee meals on a prospective basis. This position stems from a recent Nevada Tax Commission decision concerning another gaming
company which states that complimentary meals provided to customers are subject to sales tax at the retail value of the meal and employee meals are subject to sales tax at the cost of the meal. The
other gaming company filed in Clark County District Court a petition for judicial review of the Nevada Tax Commission decision. The Company is currently evaluating whether or not to accrue tax
prospectively as it disagrees with the position asserted by the Nevada Department of Taxation. 
        Other guarantees. The Company is party to various guarantee contracts in the normal course of business, which are generally supported by letters of
credit issued by financial institutions. The Company's senior credit facility limits the amount of letters of credit that can be issued to $250 million, and the amount of available borrowings
under the senior credit facility is reduced by any outstanding letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, the Company had provided $37 million of total letters of credit. In addition, MGM
China had provided approximately $40 million of guarantees under the MGM Grand Paradise credit facility. 
         Other litigation. The Company is a party to various legal proceedings, most of which relate to routine
matters incidental to its business. Management does not believe that the outcome of such proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or
cash flows. 
 NOTE 12 — STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY  
         Authorized common stock. In June 2011, the stockholders of the Company approved a proposal to amend and restate the Amended and Restated Certificate
of Incorporation of the Company to increase the Company's number of authorized shares of common stock to 1,000,000,000 shares. 
        Stock offering. In October 2010, the Company issued 40.9 million shares of its common stock for total net proceeds to the Company of
$512 million. Concurrently with the Company's issuance, Tracinda sold approximately 27.8 million shares of the Company's common stock. The Company did not receive any proceeds from the
sale of such common stock by Tracinda. In November 2010, the underwriter exercised its ability to purchase an additional 6.1 million shares from the Company and 4.2 million shares from
Tracinda to cover overallotments, with net proceeds to the Company of approximately $77 million. Proceeds from the common stock offering were used to repay outstanding amounts under the
Company's senior credit facility (see Note 9) and for general corporate purposes. 
        Stock repurchases. Share repurchases are only conducted under repurchase programs approved by the Board of Directors and publicly announced. At
December 31, 2011, the Company had 20 million shares available for repurchase under the May 2008 authorization, subject to limitations under the Company's agreements governing its
long-term indebtedness. The Company did not repurchase any shares during 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
123



 
        MGM China Dividend.    In February 2012, MGM China's Board of Directors declared a dividend of approximately $400 million which will
be paid to
shareholders of record as of March 9, 2012, and distributed on or about March 20, 2012. The Company will receive approximately $204 million, representing 51% of such dividend. 
 NOTE 13 — NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS  
        As discussed in Note 3, the Company became the controlling shareholder of MGM China and began consolidating the financial
position of MGM China in its financial statements as of June 3, 2011. The noncontrolling interests in MGM China and other minor subsidiaries are presented as a separate component of
stockholders' equity in the Company's consolidated balance sheets, and the net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is presented on the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Net
income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $120 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. 
 NOTE 14 — STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION  
         2005 Omnibus Incentive Plan. The Company's omnibus incentive plan, as amended (the "Omnibus Plan"), allows it to grant stock options, stock
appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), and other stock-based awards to eligible directors, officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. The
Omnibus Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors. The Committee has discretion under the Omnibus Plan regarding which type of awards to grant, the
vesting and service requirements, exercise price and other conditions, in all cases subject to certain limits, including:


•As amended, the Omnibus Plan allows for the issuance of up to 35 million shares or share-based awards; and •For stock options and
SARs, the exercise price of the award must be at least equal to the fair market value of the stock
on the date of grant and the maximum term of such an award is 10 years. 

        Stock
options and SARs granted under all plans generally have terms of either seven or ten years, and in most cases vest in either four or five equal annual installments. RSUs granted
vest ratably over four years. 
124




 










        As
of December 31, 2011, the Company had an aggregate of approximately 8 million shares of common stock available for grant as share-based awards under the Omnibus Plan. A
summary of activity under the Company's share-based payment plans for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented below: 
 
 
Stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs")  






















 
 
Shares
(000's) 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 
Weighted
Average
Remaining
Contractual
Term 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 Outstanding at January 1, 2011
 
 
28,129
 
$
21.73
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
3,514
 
 
9.06
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
(268
)
 
10.38
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited or expired
 
 
(1,055
)
 
26.94
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
30,320
 
 
20.18
 
 
3.07
 
$
20,384
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
29,686
 
 
20.40
 
 
3.00
 
$
19,607
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
20,631
 
 
24.34
 
 
1.89
 
$
7,821
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        As of December 31, 2011, there was a total of $50 million of unamortized compensation related to stock options and stock
appreciation rights expected to vest, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years. 
 
 
Restricted stock units ("RSUs")  
















 
 
Shares
(000's) 
 
Weighted
Average
Grant-Date
Fair
Value 
 


 Nonvested at January 1, 2011
 
 
1,144
 
$
13.90
 


 Granted
 
 
518
 
 
8.28
 


 Vested
 
 
(367
)
 
14.87
 


 Forfeited
 
 
(114
)
 
13.77
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Nonvested at December 31, 2011
 
 
1,181
 
 
11.15
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        As of December 31, 2011, there was a total of $19 million of unamortized compensation related to RSUs which is expected to be
recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.3 years. 
        The
following table includes additional information related to stock options, SARs and RSUs: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Intrinsic value of share-based awards exercised or RSUs vested
 
$
4,841
 
$
4,377
 
$
2,546
 


 Income tax benefit from share-based awards exercised or RSUs vested
 
 
1,675
 
 
1,521
 
 
891
 


 Proceeds from stock option exercises
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
637
 




        In 2009, the Company began to net settle stock option exercises, whereby shares of common stock are issued equivalent to the intrinsic value of
the option less applicable taxes. Accordingly, the Company no longer receives proceeds from the exercise of stock options. 
125



 
        MGM China Share Option Plan. The Company's subsidiary, MGM China, adopted an equity award plan in 2011 for grants of stock options to purchase
ordinary shares of MGM China to eligible directors, employees and non-employees of MGM China and its subsidiaries ("MGM China Plan"). The MGM China Plan is administered by MGM China's
Board of Directors, which has the discretion to determine the exercise price and term of the award, as well as other conditions, in all cases subject to certain limits,
including:


•The current MGM China Plan allows for a maximum of 30% of the total number of shares of MGM China in issue at the date of
approval of the MGM China Plan to be issued upon exercise; and •The exercise price of the award must be the higher of the closing price of the stock on the offer date, or the average of
the closing price for the five business days immediately preceding the offer date, and the maximum term of the award must not exceed ten years. 

        Stock
options currently granted under the MGM China Plan have a term of ten years, and vest in four equal annual installments. Expense is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the vesting period of the awards net of estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant, with such estimate updated periodically and with actual forfeitures recognized
currently to the extent they differ from the estimate. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted under the MGM China Plan using the Black-Scholes model. Expected volatilities are
based on historical volatility from a selection of companies in MGM China's peer group due to MGM China's lack of historical information. The Company determined expected term based on a binomial
model. The risk-free interest rate was based on rates in effect at the grant date for the Hong Kong Exchange Fund Note with maturities matching the relevant expected term of the award. 
        As
of December 31, 2011, MGM China had an aggregate of approximately 1.1 billion shares of options available for grant as share-based awards. A summary of activity under
the MGM China Plan for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented below: 
 
 
Stock options  






















 
 
Shares
(000's) 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise
Price 
 
Weighted
Average
Remaining
Contractual
Term 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 Outstanding at January 1, 2011
 
 
-
 
$
-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
19,260
 
 
1.99
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
19,260
 
 
1.99
 
 
3.45
 
$
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Vested and expected to vest at December 31, 2011
 
 
18,297
 
 
1.99
 
 
3.45
 
$
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        As of December 31, 2011, there was a total of $20 million of unamortized compensation related to stock options expected to vest,
which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.5 years. 
126



 
        Recognition of compensation cost. Compensation cost for both the Omnibus Plan and MGM China Plan was recognized as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Compensation cost
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stock options and SARS
 
$
23,956
 
$
20,554
 
$
21,756
 


 RSUs
 
 
17,147
 
 
19,693
 
 
21,294
 


 MGM China Plan
 
 
3,176
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total compensation cost
 
 
44,279
 
 
40,247
 
 
43,050
 


 Less: CityCenter reimbursed costs
 
 
(4,572
)
 
(5,259
)
 
(6,415
)


 Less: Compensation cost capitalized
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(64
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


           Compensation cost recognized as
             expense
 
 
39,707
 
 
34,988
 
 
36,571
 


 Less: Related tax benefit
 
 
(12,712
)
 
(12,162
)
 
(12,689
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


           Compensation expense, net of tax
             benefit
 
$
26,995
 
$
22,826
 
$
23,882
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Compensation cost for SARs granted under the 2005 Omnibus Plan is based on the fair value of each award, measured by applying the Black-Scholes
model on the date of grant, using the following weighted-average assumptions: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Expected volatility
 
 
72%
 
 
71%
 
 
82%
 


 Expected term
 
 
4.9 yrs.
 
 
4.8 yrs.
 
 
4.7 yrs.
 


 Expected dividend yield
 
 
0%
 
 
0%
 
 
0%
 


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
1.0%
 
 
1.9%
 
 
2.4%
 


 Weighted-average fair value of options granted
 
$
5.29
 
$
6.91
 
$
5.37
 




        Expected volatility is based in part on historical volatility and in part on implied volatility based on traded options on the Company's stock.
The expected term considers the contractual term of the option as well as historical exercise and forfeiture behavior. The risk-free interest rate is based on the rates in effect on the
grant date for U.S. Treasury instruments with maturities matching the relevant expected term of the award. 
        Compensation
cost for stock options granted under the MGM China Plan is based on the fair value of each award, measured by applying the Black-Scholes model on the date of grant, using
the following weighted-average assumptions: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Expected volatility
 
 
60%
 
 
NA
 
 
NA
 


 Expected term
 
 
8.0 yrs.
 
 
NA
 
 
NA
 


 Expected dividend yield
 
 
0%
 
 
NA
 
 
NA
 


 Risk-free interest rate
 
 
2.1%
 
 
NA
 
 
NA
 


 Weighted-average fair value of options granted
 
$
1.26
 
 
NA
 
 
NA
 




 NOTE 15 — EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS  
         Multiemployer benefit plans. Employees of the Company who are members of various unions are covered by union-sponsored, collectively bargained,
multiemployer health and welfare and defined benefit 
127



 
pension
plans. Of these plans, the Company considers the Southern Nevada Culinary and Bartenders Pension Plan (the "Pension Plan"), under the terms of collective-bargaining agreements with the Local
Joint Executive Board of Las Vegas for and on behalf of Culinary Workers Union Local No. 226 and Bartenders Union Local No. 165 to be individually significant. The risk of participating
in the Pension Plan differs from single-employer plans in the following aspects: 


a)Assets
contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other participating employers; b)If
a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers; c)If
an entity chooses to stop participating in some of its multiemployer plans, the entity may be required to pay those plans an amount based on the
underfunded status of the plan, referred to as a withdrawal liability;  d)If
the Pension Plan is terminated by withdrawal of all employers and if the value of the nonforfeitable benefits exceeds plan assets and withdrawal liability
payments, employers are required by law to make up the insufficient difference. 

        Pursuant
to its collective-bargaining agreements referenced above, the Company also contributes to UNITE HERE Health (the "Health Fund"), which provides healthcare benefits to its active
and retired members. The Company's participation in the Pension Plan is outlined in the table below. 






















 
 
 
 
Pension Protection Act
Zone Status 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
Expiration Date
of Collective
Bargaining
Agreements (2) 
 


 
 
EIN/Pension
Plan Number 
 


Pension Fund 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Southern Nevada Culinary and Bartenders Pension Plan
 
 
88-6016617/001
 
 
Green
 
 
Yellow (1
)
 
5/31/13 - 11/12/14
 






(1)The
Pension Plan was certified for the 2009 plan year as being in endangered status, or the yellow zone. However, the trustees made an election under the
Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 to freeze the Pension Plan's funding status for the 2009 plan year; therefore, the Pension Plan was treated as neither in endangered nor critical
status for the 2009 plan year and the Pension Plan was not required to adopt a funding improvement plan.  (2)The
Company is party to ten collective-bargaining agreements that require contributions to the Pension Plan. The agreements between CityCenter Hotel
Casino, LLC, Bellagio, Mandalay Corp., MGM Grand Hotel, LLC and the Local Joint Executive Board of Las Vegas are the most significant because more than half of the Company's employee
participants in the Pension Plan are covered by those four agreements. 

        Contributions to the Company's multiemployer pension plans and other multiemployer benefit plans were as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 Multiemployer Pension Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Southern Nevada Culinary and Bartenders Pension Plan
 
$
31,476
 
$
28,392
 
$
22,322
 


 Other pension plans not individually significant
 
 
7,812
 
 
7,485
 
 
7,152
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total multiemployer pension plans
 
$
39,288
 
$
35,877
 
$
29,474
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Multiemployer Benefit Plans Other Than Pensions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 UNITE HERE Health
 
$
160,270
 
$
159,757
 
$
136,279
 


 Other
 
 
13,608
 
 
11,175
 
 
10,397
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total multiemployer benefit plans other than pensions
 
$
173,878
 
$
170,932
 
$
146,676
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Hours worked by employees covered by the Pension Plan and Health Fund increased by approximately 15% in 2010 due to the opening of Aria, offset by
a reduction in hours worked at other properties due to the economic downturn. In addition, the contribution rate to the Pension Plan increased in mid 2010 as defined under the collective bargaining
agreements. Hours worked in 2011 were flat 
128



 
compared
to 2010; however, the contribution rate to the Pension Plan increased again in mid 2011 as defined under the collective bargaining agreements. Bellagio, Mandalay Bay and MGM Grand were listed
in the Pension Plan's Forms 5500 as providing more than 5% of the total contributions for the plan years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Aria was listed as providing more than 5% of
the total contributions for the plan year ended December 31, 2010. At the date the financial statements were issued, Form 5500 was not available for the plan year ending in 2011. No
surcharges were imposed on the Company's contributions to any of the plans. 
        Self insurance. The Company is self-insured for most health care benefits and workers compensation for its non-union
employees. The liability for health care claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported was $23 million and $18 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively. The workers compensation liability for claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported was $27 million and $24 million as of December 31, 2011 and
2010, respectively. Both liabilities are included in "Other accrued liabilities." 
        Retirement savings plans. The Company has retirement savings plans under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code for eligible employees.
The plans allow employees to defer, within prescribed limits, up to 30% of their income on a pre-tax basis through contributions to the plans. The Company suspended its matching
contributions to the plan in 2009, though certain employees at MGM Grand Detroit and Four Seasons were still eligible for matching contributions. The Company reinstated a more limited 401(k) company
contribution in 2011 and will continue to monitor the plan contributions as the economy changes. In the case of certain union employees, the Company contributions to the plan are based on hours
worked. The Company recorded charges for 401(k) contributions of $10 million in 2011, $3 million in 2010 and $2 million in 2008. 
        The
Company maintains nonqualified deferred retirement plans for certain key employees. The plans allow participants to defer, on a pre-tax basis, a portion of their salary
and bonus and accumulate tax deferred earnings, plus investment earnings on the deferred balances, as a deferred tax savings. All employee deferrals vest immediately. In 2009, the Company suspended
contributions to the plan. 
        The
Company also maintains nonqualified supplemental executive retirement plans ("SERP") for certain key employees. Until September 2008, the Company made quarterly contributions
intended to provide a retirement benefit that is a fixed percentage of a participant's estimated final five-year average annual salary, up to a maximum of 65%. The Company has indefinitely
suspended these contributions. Employees do not make contributions under these plans. A portion of the Company contributions and investment earnings thereon vest after three years of SERP
participation and the remaining portion vests after both five years of SERP participation and 10 years of continuous service. 
        Pursuant
to the amendments of the nonqualified deferred retirement plans and SERP plans during 2008, and consistent with certain transitional relief provided by the Internal Revenue
Service pursuant to rules governing nonqualified deferred compensation, the Company permitted participants under the plans to make a one-time election to receive, without penalty, all or a
portion of their respective vested account balances. Based on elections made, the Company made payments to participants of $62 million in 2009. 
        MGM
China contributes to a retirement plan as part of an employee benefits package for eligible employees. Contributions to the retirement plan for the period June 3, 2011 through
December 31, 2011 were $2 million. 
129



 
 NOTE 16 — PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS, NET  
        Property transactions, net consisted of the following: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Circus Circus Reno impairment
 
$
79,658
 
$
-
 
$
-
 


 Borgata impairment
 
 
61,962
 
 
128,395
 
 
-
 


 Silver Legacy impairment
 
 
22,966
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 CityCenter investment impairment
 
 
-
 
 
1,313,219
 
 
955,898
 


 Atlantic City Renaissance Pointe land impairment
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
548,347
 


 Gain on sale of TI
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(187,442
)


 Other property transactions, net
 
 
14,012
 
 
9,860
 
 
11,886
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
178,598
 
$
1,451,474
 
$
1,328,689
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        At September 30, 2011 the Company reviewed the carrying value of its Circus Circus Reno long-lived assets for impairment using
revised operating forecasts developed by management for that resort in the third quarter of 2011. Due to current and forecasted market conditions and results of operations through September 30,
2011 being lower than previous forecasts, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $80 million in the third quarter of 2011 in "Property transactions, net," primarily
related to a write-down of Circus Circus Reno's long-lived assets. The Company's discounted cash flow analysis for Circus Circus Reno included estimated future cash inflows from operations
and estimated future cash outflows for capital expenditures utilizing an estimated discount rate and terminal year capitalization rate. 
        See
Note 1 for the Borgata impairment in 2011 and 2010 and Note 6 for discussion of the Company's Silver Legacy investment impairment in 2011. Other property transactions
in 2011 include the write-off of $5 million of goodwill related to Railroad Pass. 
        See
Note 6 for discussion of the Company's CityCenter investment impairment. Other property transactions in 2010 include the write-off of various abandoned
construction projects. 
        The
Company reviewed the carrying value of its Renaissance Pointe land holdings for impairment at December 31, 2009 as management did not intend to pursue its MGM Grand Atlantic
City project for the foreseeable future. The Company's Board of Directors subsequently terminated this project. The Company's Renaissance Pointe land holdings include a 72-acre development
site and included 11 acres of land subject to a long-term lease with the Borgata joint venture. The fair value of the development land was determined based on a market approach and the
fair value of land subject to the long-term lease with Borgata was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis using expected contractual cash flows under the lease discounted at a
market capitalization rate. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $548 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. 
        See
Note 6 for discussion of the Company's CityCenter investment impairment in 2009 and Note 2 for information related to the sale of TI. Other write-downs in 2009 included
the write-down of the Detroit temporary casino and write-off of various discontinued capital projects, offset by $7 million in insurance recoveries related to the Monte
Carlo fire. 
 NOTE 17 — SEGMENT INFORMATION  
        The Company's management views each of its casino resorts as an operating segment. Operating segments are aggregated based on their
similar economic characteristics, types of customers, types of services and products provided, the regulatory environments in which they operate, and their management and reporting structure. The
Company's principal operating activities occur in two geographic regions: the 
130



 
United
States and Macau S.A.R. The Company has aggregated its operations into two reportable segments based on the similar characteristics of the operating segments within the regions in which
they operate: wholly owned domestic resorts and MGM China. The Company's operations related to investments in unconsolidated affiliates, MGM Hospitality, and certain other corporate and management
operations have not been identified as separate reportable segments; therefore, these operations are included in corporate and other in the following segment disclosures to reconcile to consolidated
results. 
        The
Company's management utilizes Adjusted Property EBITDA as the primary profit measure for its reportable segments. Adjusted Property EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure defined
as Adjusted EBITDA before corporate expense and stock compensation expense related to the MGM Resorts stock option plan, which are not allocated to the reportable segments. MGM China recognizes stock
compensation expense related to its stock compensation plan which is included in the calculation of Adjusted Property EBITDA for MGM China. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure defined as
earnings before interest and other non-operating income (expense), taxes, depreciation and amortization, preopening and start-up expenses, and property transactions, net. 
        The
following tables present the Company's segment information: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
$
5,892,902
 
$
5,634,350
 
$
5,875,090
 


 MGM China
 
 
1,534,963
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reportable segment net revenues
 
 
7,427,865
 
 
5,634,350
 
 
5,875,090
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
421,447
 
 
421,651
 
 
135,498
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
7,849,312
 
$
6,056,001
 
$
6,010,588
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Adjusted EBITDA:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
$
1,298,116
 
$
1,165,413
 
$
1,343,562
 


 MGM China
 
 
359,686
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reportable segment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Adjusted Property EBITDA
 
 
1,657,802
 
 
1,165,413
 
 
1,343,562
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
(101,233
)
 
(235,200
)
 
(236,463
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
1,556,569
 
 
930,213
 
 
1,107,099
 


 Other operating income (expense):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
316
 
 
(4,247
)
 
(53,013
)


 Property transactions, net
 
 
(178,598
)
 
(1,451,474
)
 
(1,328,689
)


 Gain on MGM China transaction
 
 
3,496,005
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
(817,146
)
 
(633,423
)
 
(689,273
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
4,057,146
 
 
(1,158,931
)
 
(963,876
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




131



 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 (Continued)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-operating income (expense):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense, net
 
 
(1,086,832
)
 
(1,113,580
)
 
(775,431
)


 Non-operating items from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(119,013
)
 
(108,731
)
 
(47,127
)


 Other, net
 
 
(19,670
)
 
165,217
 
 
(226,159
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
(1,225,515
)
 
(1,057,094
)
 
(1,048,717
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
2,831,631
 
 
(2,216,025
)
 
(2,012,593
)


 Benefit for income taxes
 
 
403,313
 
 
778,628
 
 
720,911
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
3,234,944
 
 
(1,437,397
)
 
(1,291,682
)


 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
(120,307
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
$
3,114,637
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,291,682
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


Total assets:
 
(In thousands)
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
$
14,237,132
 
$
14,038,040
 


 MGM China
 
 
9,040,344
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reportable segment total assets
 
 
23,277,476
 
 
14,038,040
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
4,488,800
 
 
4,913,808
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
27,766,276
 
$
18,951,848
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


Capital expenditures:
 
(In thousands)
 


 Wholly owned domestic resorts
 
$
235,638
 
$
147,317
 
$
101,363
 


 MGM China
 
 
26,649
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reportable segment capital expenditures
 
 
262,287
 
 
147,317
 
 
101,363
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
38,957
 
 
60,174
 
 
35,487
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
301,244
 
$
207,491
 
$
136,850
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 NOTE 18 — RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS  

 CityCenter  

        Management agreements. The Company and CityCenter have entered into agreements whereby the Company is responsible for management of the design,
planning, development and construction of CityCenter and is managing the operations of CityCenter for a fee. The Company earned fees of $33 million, $20 million and $2 million for
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The Company is being reimbursed for certain costs in performing its development and management services. During the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 the Company incurred $346 million, $354 million, and $95 million, respectively, of costs reimbursable by the joint venture, primarily for
employee compensation and certain allocated costs. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, CityCenter owed the Company $49 and $35 million, respectively, for management services and
reimbursable costs. 
132



 
         Other agreements. The Company owns OE Pub, LLC, which leases retail space in Crystals. The Company recorded $1 million of expense
related to the lease agreement in each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The Company entered into an agreement with CityCenter whereby the Company provides CityCenter the use of
its aircraft on a time sharing basis. CityCenter is charged a rate that is based on Federal Aviation Administration regulations, which provides for reimbursement for specific costs incurred by the
Company without any profit or mark-up. During the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company was reimbursed $3 million and $4 million, respectively, for
aircraft related expenses. The Company has various other arrangements with CityCenter for the provision of certain shared services, reimbursement of costs and other transactions undertaken in the
ordinary course of business. 

 MGM China  

        Ms. Pansy Ho is member of the board of directors of, and holds a minority ownership interest in, MGM China. Ms. Pansy Ho
is also the managing director of Shun Tak Holdings Limited (together with its subsidiaries "Shun Tak"), a leading conglomerate in Hong Kong with core businesses in transportation, property,
hospitality and investments. Shun Tak provides various services and products, including ferry tickets, travel products, rental of hotel rooms, laundry services, advertising services and property
cleaning services to MGM China and MGM China provides rental of hotel rooms at wholesale room rates to Shun Tak and receives rebates for ferry tickets from Shun Tak. For the period from June 3,
2011 through December 31, 2011, MGM China incurred expenses of $9 million related to such services and recorded revenue of less than $1 million related to hotel rooms provided to
Shun Tak. As of December 31, 2011, MGM China did not have a material payable to or receivable from Shun Tak. 
        In
connection with the MGM China IPO, MGM Branding and Development Holdings, Ltd., an entity included in the Company's consolidated financial statements in which Ms. Pansy
Ho indirectly holds a noncontrolling interest, entered into a brand license agreement with MGM China. MGM China pays a license fee to MGM Branding and Development Holdings, Ltd equal to 1.75%
of MGM China's consolidated net revenue, subject to an annual cap of $25 million for the initial year of the agreement, prorated to $15 million for the portion of 2011 subsequent to the
date of the IPO. The annual cap will increase by 20% per annum for each subsequent calendar year during the term of the agreement. During the period from June 3, 2011 through
December 31, 2011, total license fees of $15 million were incurred by MGM China. Such amounts have been eliminated in consolidation. An entity owned by Ms. Pansy Ho received a
distribution of $4 million during the year ended December 31, 2011 in connection with the ownership of a noncontrolling interest in MGM Branding and Development Holdings, Ltd. 

 Convertible notes  

        In June 2011, the Company sold $300 million in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.25% convertible senior notes due
2015 to an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Ms. Pansy Ho. See Note 9 for additional information related to the convertible notes. 
133




 










 NOTE 19 — CONSOLIDATING CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
        Excluding MGM Grand Detroit, LLC, MGM China and certain minor subsidiaries, the Company's subsidiaries that are 100% directly or
indirectly owned have fully and unconditionally guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, payment of the senior credit facility, the senior notes, senior secured notes and the senior subordinated
notes. Separate condensed financial statement information for the subsidiary guarantors and non-guarantors as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 and for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is as follows: 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION     

























 
 
At December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Current assets
 
$
889,749
 
$
968,928
 
$
954,043
 
$
-
 
$
2,812,720
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 
-
 
 
13,567,922
 
 
1,310,694
 
 
(11,972
)
 
14,866,644
 


 Investments in subsidiaries
 
 
24,022,470
 
 
7,930,882
 
 
-
 
 
(31,953,352
)
 
-
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
-
 
 
1,635,572
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
1,635,572
 


 Other non-current assets
 
 
256,171
 
 
541,081
 
 
7,654,088
 
 
-
 
 
8,451,340
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
25,168,390
 
$
24,644,385
 
$
9,918,825
 
$
(31,965,324
)
$
27,766,276
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current liabilities
 
$
280,233
 
$
947,341
 
$
517,190
 
$
-
 
$
1,744,764
 


 Intercompany accounts
 
 
334,454
 
 
(377,756
)
 
43,302
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
2,237,628
 
 
-
 
 
264,468
 
 
-
 
 
2,502,096
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
12,310,634
 
 
157,221
 
 
1,002,312
 
 
-
 
 
13,470,167
 


 Other long-term obligations
 
 
123,219
 
 
43,300
 
 
508
 
 
-
 
 
167,027
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
15,286,168
 
 
770,106
 
 
1,827,780
 
 
-
 
 
17,884,054
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 MGM Resorts stockholders' equity
 
 
9,882,222
 
 
23,874,279
 
 
4,295,401
 
 
(31,965,324
)
 
6,086,578
 


 Noncontrolling interests
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
3,795,644
 
 
-
 
 
3,795,644
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
9,882,222
 
 
23,874,279
 
 
8,091,045
 
 
(31,965,324
)
 
9,882,222
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
25,168,390
 
$
24,644,385
 
$
9,918,825
 
$
(31,965,324
)
$
27,766,276
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 

























 
 
At December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Current assets
 
$
358,725
 
$
930,936
 
$
165,984
 
$
-
 
$
1,455,645
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 
-
 
 
13,925,224
 
 
641,098
 
 
(11,972
)
 
14,554,350
 


 Investments in subsidiaries
 
 
16,454,339
 
 
471,283
 
 
-
 
 
(16,925,622
)
 
-
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
-
 
 
1,923,155
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
1,923,155
 


 Other non-current assets
 
 
294,165
 
 
427,156
 
 
297,377
 
 
-
 
 
1,018,698
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
17,107,229
 
$
17,677,754
 
$
1,104,459
 
$
(16,937,594
)
$
18,951,848
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current liabilities
 
$
305,354
 
$
911,731
 
$
29,136
 
$
-
 
$
1,246,221
 


 Intercompany accounts
 
 
(101,566
)
 
95,463
 
 
6,103
 
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Deferred income taxes
 
 
2,526,519
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
2,526,519
 


 Long-term debt
 
 
11,301,034
 
 
296,664
 
 
450,000
 
 
-
 
 
12,047,698
 


 Other long-term obligations
 
 
143,726
 
 
54,828
 
 
694
 
 
-
 
 
199,248
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
2,932,162
 
 
16,319,068
 
 
618,526
 
 
(16,937,594
)
 
2,932,162
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
17,107,229
 
$
17,677,754
 
$
1,104,459
 
$
(16,937,594
)
$
18,951,848
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




134



 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION     

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
-
 
$
5,745,417
 
$
2,103,895
 
$
-
 
$
7,849,312
 


 Equity in subsidiaries' earnings
 
 
3,908,981
 
 
3,784,101
 
 
-
 
 
(7,693,082
)
 
-
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Casino and hotel operations
 
 
10,030
 
 
3,610,360
 
 
1,405,971
 
 
-
 
 
5,026,361
 


 General and administrative
 
 
7,613
 
 
1,015,923
 
 
158,969
 
 
-
 
 
1,182,505
 


 Corporate expense
 
 
69,958
 
 
104,288
 
 
725
 
 
-
 
 
174,971
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
-
 
 
(316
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(316
)


 Property transactions, net
 
 
-
 
 
176,063
 
 
2,535
 
 
-
 
 
178,598
 


 Gain on MGM China transaction
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(3,496,005
)
 
-
 
 
(3,496,005
)


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
-
 
 
556,538
 
 
260,608
 
 
-
 
 
817,146
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
87,601
 
 
5,462,856
 
 
(1,667,197
)
 
-
 
 
3,883,260
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
-
 
 
(24,096
)
 
115,190
 
 
-
 
 
91,094
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
3,821,380
 
 
4,042,566
 
 
3,886,282
 
 
(7,693,082
)
 
4,057,146
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(1,023,090
)
 
(18,882
)
 
(44,860
)
 
-
 
 
(1,086,832
)


 Other, net
 
 
16,644
 
 
(115,009
)
 
(40,318
)
 
-
 
 
(138,683
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before income taxes
 
 
2,814,934
 
 
3,908,675
 
 
3,801,104
 
 
(7,693,082
)
 
2,831,631
 


 Benefit (provision) for income taxes
 
 
299,703
 
 
(18
)
 
103,628
 
 
-
 
 
403,313
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
3,114,637
 
 
3,908,657
 
 
3,904,732
 
 
(7,693,082
)
 
3,234,944
 


 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(120,307
)
 
-
 
 
(120,307
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
$
3,114,637
 
$
3,908,657
 
$
3,784,425
 
$
(7,693,082
)
$
3,114,637
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




135



 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION     

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
$
(716,556
)
$
933,820
 
$
457,862
 
$
-
 
$
675,126
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital expenditures, net of construction payable
 
 
-
 
 
(263,469
)
 
(37,775
)
 
-
 
 
(301,244
)


 Dispositions of property and equipment
 
 
-
 
 
147
 
 
201
 
 
-
 
 
348
 


 Acquisition of MGM China, net of cash paid
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
407,046
 
 
-
 
 
407,046
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(92,200
)
 
(36,648
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(128,848
)


 Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates in excess of earnings
 
 
-
 
 
2,212
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
2,212
 


 Investments in treasury securities - maturities greater than 90 days
 
 
-
 
 
(330,313
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(330,313
)


 Proceeds from treasury securities - maturities greater than 90 days
 
 
-
 
 
330,130
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
330,130
 


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
(643
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(643
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
(92,200
)
 
(298,584
)
 
369,472
 
 
-
 
 
(21,312
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net borrowings (repayments) under bank credit facilities - maturities of 90 days or less
 
 
167,391
 
 
-
 
 
(473,271
)
 
-
 
 
(305,880
)


 Borrowings under bank credit facilities - maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
5,826,993
 
 
-
 
 
1,732,119
 
 
-
 
 
7,559,112
 


 Repayments under bank credit facilities - maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
(5,002,384
)
 
-
 
 
(1,350,000
)
 
-
 
 
(6,352,384
)


 Issuance of senior notes, net
 
 
311,415
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
311,415
 


 Retirement of senior notes
 
 
(356,700
)
 
(137,116
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(493,816
)


 Intercompany accounts
 
 
529,145
 
 
(473,399
)
 
(55,746
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Other
 
 
(1,421
)
 
(1,263
)
 
(3,841
)
 
-
 
 
(6,525
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
1,474,439
 
 
(611,778
)
 
(150,739
)
 
-
 
 
711,922
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effect of exchange rate on cash
 
 

-
 
 

-
 
 

1,213
 
 

-
 
 

1,213
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) for the period
 
 
665,683
 
 
23,458
 
 
677,808
 
 
-
 
 
1,366,949
 


 Balance, beginning of period
 
 
72,457
 
 
278,801
 
 
147,706
 
 
-
 
 
498,964
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of period
 
$
738,140
 
$
302,259
 
$
825,514
 
$
-
 
$
1,865,913
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




136



 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION     

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net revenues
 
$
-
 
$
5,517,086
 
$
538,915
 
$
-
 
$
6,056,001
 


 Equity in subsidiaries' earnings
 
 
(1,281,514
)
 
164,502
 
 
-
 
 
1,117,012
 
 
-
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Casino and hotel operations
 
 
10,684
 
 
3,494,995
 
 
288,631
 
 
-
 
 
3,794,310
 


 General and administrative
 
 
9,974
 
 
1,020,119
 
 
98,710
 
 
-
 
 
1,128,803
 


 Corporate expense
 
 
15,734
 
 
110,199
 
 
(1,692
)
 
-
 
 
124,241
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
-
 
 
4,247
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
4,247
 


 Property transactions, net
 
 
-
 
 
1,451,801
 
 
(327
)
 
-
 
 
1,451,474
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
-
 
 
592,895
 
 
40,528
 
 
-
 
 
633,423
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
36,392
 
 
6,674,256
 
 
425,850
 
 
-
 
 
7,136,498
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
-
 
 
(208,099
)
 
129,665
 
 
-
 
 
(78,434
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
(1,317,906
)
 
(1,200,767
)
 
242,730
 
 
1,117,012
 
 
(1,158,931
)


 Interest income (expense), net
 
 
(1,060,511
)
 
(22,512
)
 
(30,557
)
 
-
 
 
(1,113,580
)


 Other, net
 
 
148,074
 
 
(50,929
)
 
(40,659
)
 
-
 
 
56,486
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
(2,230,343
)
 
(1,274,208
)
 
171,514
 
 
1,117,012
 
 
(2,216,025
)


 Benefit (provision) for income taxes
 
 
792,946
 
 
(9,316
)
 
(5,002
)
 
-
 
 
778,628
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
(1,437,397
)
$
(1,283,524
)
$
166,512
 
$
1,117,012
 
$
(1,437,397
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




137



 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION     

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
$
(484,388
)
$
903,454
 
$
84,948
 
$
-
 
$
504,014
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital expenditures, net of construction payable
 
 
-
 
 
(201,917
)
 
(5,574
)
 
-
 
 
(207,491
)


 Dispositions of property and equipment
 
 
-
 
 
71,292
 
 
6,309
 
 
-
 
 
77,601
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
(553,000
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(553,000
)


 Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates in excess of earnings
 
 
65,563
 
 
1,943
 
 
67,552
 
 
-
 
 
135,058
 


 Distributions from cost method investments, net
 
 
-
 
 
113,422
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
113,422
 


 Investments in treasury securities - maturities greater than 90 days
 
 
-
 
 
(149,999
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(149,999
)


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
(1,670
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,670
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
 
 
(487,437
)
 
(166,929
)
 
68,287
 
 
-
 
 
(586,079
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net borrowings (repayments) under bank credit facilities - maturities of 90 days or less
 
 
(2,098,198
)
 
-
 
 
212,119
 
 
-
 
 
(1,886,079
)


 Borrowings under bank credit facilities - maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
8,068,342
 
 
-
 
 
1,417,881
 
 
-
 
 
9,486,223
 


 Repayments under bank credit facilities - maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
(9,177,860
)
 
-
 
 
(1,630,000
)
 
-
 
 
(10,807,860
)


 Issuance of senior notes, net
 
 
2,489,485
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
2,489,485
 


 Retirement of senior notes
 
 
(857,523
)
 
(296,956
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,154,479
)


 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(106,831
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(106,831
)


 Issuance of common stock in public offering, net
 
 
588,456
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
588,456
 


 Intercompany accounts
 
 
502,553
 
 
(422,895
)
 
(79,658
)
 
-
 
 
-
 


 Capped call transactions
 
 
(81,478
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(81,478
)


 Other
 
 
(1,280
)
 
(1,268
)
 
(67
)
 
-
 
 
(2,615
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(674,334
)
 
(721,119
)
 
(79,725
)
 
-
 
 
(1,475,178
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) for the period
 
 
(1,646,159
)
 
15,406
 
 
73,510
 
 
-
 
 
(1,557,243
)


 Balance, beginning of period
 
 
1,718,616
 
 
263,386
 
 
74,205
 
 
-
 
 
2,056,207
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of period
 
$
72,457
 
$
278,792
 
$
147,715
 
$
-
 
$
498,964
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




138



 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION     

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Net Revenues
 
$
-
 
$
5,467,273
 
$
543,315
 
$
-
 
$
6,010,588
 


 Equity in subsidiaries' earnings
 
 
(834,524
)
 
65,531
 
 
-
 
 
768,993
 
 
-
 


 Expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Casino and hotel operations
 
 
14,368
 
 
3,255,606
 
 
301,331
 
 
-
 
 
3,571,305
 


 General and administrative
 
 
9,584
 
 
996,310
 
 
94,299
 
 
-
 
 
1,100,193
 


 Corporate Expense
 
 
33,265
 
 
114,394
 
 
(3,895
)
 
-
 
 
143,764
 


 Preopening and start-up expenses
 
 
-
 
 
53,013
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
53,013
 


 Property transactions, net
 
 
-
 
 
1,321,353
 
 
7,336
 
 
-
 
 
1,328,689
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
-
 
 
648,703
 
 
40,570
 
 
-
 
 
689,273
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
57,217
 
 
6,389,379
 
 
439,641
 
 
-
 
 
6,886,237
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
-
 
 
(112,856
)
 
24,629
 
 
-
 
 
(88,227
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
(891,741
)
 
(969,431
)
 
128,303
 
 
768,993
 
 
(963,876
)


 Interest expense, net
 
 
(953,820
)
 
201,815
 
 
(23,426
)
 
-
 
 
(775,431
)


 Other, net
 
 
(185,590
)
 
(57,100
)
 
(30,596
)
 
-
 
 
(273,286
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
(2,031,151
)
 
(824,716
)
 
74,281
 
 
768,993
 
 
(2,012,593
)


 Provision for income taxes
 
 
739,469
 
 
(13,726
)
 
(4,832
)
 
-
 
 
720,911
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net Income (loss)
 
$
(1,291,682
)
$
(838,442
)
$
69,449
 
$
768,993
 
$
(1,291,682
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




139



 
 
 
  CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION     

























 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
 


 
 
Parent 
 
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Non-
Guarantor
Subsidiaries 
 
Elimination 
 
Consolidated 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Cash flows from operating activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
$
(652,977
)
$
1,154,595
 
$
86,296
 
$
-
 
$
587,914
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from investing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital expenditures, net of construction payable
 
 
-
 
 
(135,211
)
 
(1,639
)
 
-
 
 
(136,850
)


 Proceeds from sale of Treasure Island, net
 
 
-
 
 
746,266
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
746,266
 


 Dispositions of property and equipment
 
 
-
 
 
22,291
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
22,291
 


 Investments in and advances to unconsolidated affiliates
 
 
-
 
 
(956,550
)
 
-
 
 
(7,135
)
 
(963,685
)


 Property damage insurance recoveries
 
 
-
 
 
7,186
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
7,186
 


 Other
 
 
-
 
 
(5,463
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(5,463
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
-
 
 
(321,481
)
 
(1,639
)
 
(7,135
)
 
(330,255
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash flows from financing activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net repayments under bank credit facilities - maturities of 90 days or less
 
 
(983,593
)
 
-
 
 
(43,600
)
 
-
 
 
(1,027,193
)


 Borrowings under bank credit facilities maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
6,041,492
 
 
-
 
 
730,000
 
 
-
 
 
6,771,492
 


 Repayments under bank credit facilities maturities longer than 90 days
 
 
(5,302,455
)
 
-
 
 
(640,000
)
 
-
 
 
(5,942,455
)


 Issuance of senior notes, net
 
 
1,921,751
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
1,921,751
 


 Retirement of senior notes
 
 
(820,010
)
 
(356,442
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(1,176,452
)


 Debt issuance costs
 
 
(112,055
)
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(112,055
)


 Issuance of common stock in public offering, net
 
 
1,103,738
 
 
680
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
1,104,418
 


 Intercompany accounts
 
 
1,247,519
 
 
(1,222,105
)
 
(32,549
)
 
7,135
 
 
-
 


 Repayment of Detroit Economic Development Corporation bonds
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
(49,393
)
 
-
 
 
(49,393
)


 Other
 
 
3,180
 
 
(4,480
)
 
(63
)
 
-
 
 
(1,363
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
3,099,567
 
 
(1,582,347
)
 
(35,605
)
 
7,135
 
 
1,488,750
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) for the period
 
 
2,446,590
 
 
(749,233
)
 
49,052
 
 
-
 
 
1,746,409
 


 Change in cash related to assets held for sale
 
 
-
 
 
14,154
 
 
-
 
 
-
 
 
14,154
 


 Balance, beginning of period
 
 
2,665
 
 
262,494
 
 
30,485
 
 
-
 
 
295,644
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, end of period
 
$
2,449,255
 
$
(472,585
)
$
79,537
 
$
-
 
$
2,056,207
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




140



 
 NOTE 20 — SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL RESULTS (UNAUDITED)  

























 
 
Quarter 
 


 
 
First 
 
Second 
 
Third 
 
Fourth 
 
Total 
 


 
 
(In thousands, except for per share amounts)
 


 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net revenues
 
$
1,512,851
 
$
1,805,985
 
$
2,233,587
 
$
2,296,889
 
$
7,849,312
 


 Operating income
 
 
169,705
 
 
3,683,760
 
 
112,574
 
 
91,107
 
 
4,057,146
 


 Net income (loss)
 
 
(89,871
)
 
3,450,691
 
 
(106,575
)
 
(19,301
)
 
3,234,944
 


 Net income (loss) attributable to MGM Resorts International
 
 
(89,871
)
 
3,441,985
 
 
(123,786
)
 
(113,691
)
 
3,114,637
 


 Basic income (loss) per share
 
$
(0.18
)
$
7.04
 
$
(0.25
)
$
(0.23
)
$
6.37
 


 Diluted income (loss) per share
 
$
(0.18
)
$
6.22
 
$
(0.25
)
$
(0.23
)
$
5.62
 


 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net revenues
 
$
1,466,253
 
$
1,547,329
 
$
1,567,117
 
$
1,475,302
 
$
6,056,001
 


 Operating income (loss)
 
 
(11,423
)
 
(1,048,817
)
 
(205,901
)
 
107,210
 
 
(1,158,931
)


 Net loss
 
 
(96,741
)
 
(883,476
)
 
(317,991
)
 
(139,189
)
 
(1,437,397
)


 Basic loss per share
 
$
(0.22
)
$
(2.00
)
$
(0.72
)
$
(0.29
)
$
(3.19
)


 Diluted loss per share
 
$
(0.22
)
$
(2.00
)
$
(0.72
)
$
(0.29
)
$
(3.19
)




        Because income per share amounts are calculated using the weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding
during each quarter, the sum of the per share amounts for the four quarters does not equal the total income (loss) per share amounts for the year. 
        As
discussed in Note 3, in June 2011, the Company began consolidating MGM China as of June 3, 2011 and recorded a gain of $3.5 billion related to the transaction,
resulting in a $6.30 per diluted share impact in the second quarter of 2011 and a $6.23 per diluted share impact on the full year of 2011. 
        As
discussed in Note 16, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $80 million in the third quarter of 2011 related to Circus Circus Reno, a
non-cash impairment charge of $23 million related to its investment in Silver Legacy in the fourth quarter of 2011, and a non-cash impairment charge of
$62 million related to its investment in Borgata in the fourth quarter of 2011. The Circus Circus Reno impairment had an $0.11 impact to diluted income per share in the third quarter, the
Silver Legacy impairment had a $0.03 impact to loss per share in the fourth quarter, and the Borgata impairment had a $0.07 impact to loss per share in the fourth quarter. These impairments had a
$0.19 per diluted share impact on the full year of 2011. In addition, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $26 million related to its share of CityCenter residential inventory
impairment charges in the second quarter of 2011, resulting in a $0.03 impact per share for the second quarter and a $0.03 per share impact on the full year of 2011. 
        In
the fourth quarter, the Company recorded net tax adjustments of $44 million, or $0.09 per share, increase in income tax benefit resulting from a decrease in the Macau net
deferred tax liability, partially offset by an increase in the Michigan net deferred tax liability. Net tax adjustments of $58 million resulted in a $0.10 per share impact on the full year of
2011. 
        As
discussed in Note 6, in 2010 the Company recorded a $1.3 billion impairment charge related to its CityCenter investment and a $166 million charge related to its
share of the CityCenter residential real estate impairment. The impairment of the CityCenter investment was recorded in the second and third quarters and resulted in an impact to diluted loss per
share of $1.64 in the second quarter, $0.27 in the third quarter, and $1.88 for the full year of 2010. The residential real estate impairment charges were recorded in each of the four quarters of
2010. The impact to diluted loss per share was $0.13 in the first quarter, $0.04 in the second quarter, $0.07 in the third quarter, $0.02 in the fourth quarter, and $0.24 on the full year of 2010. 
141



 
        As
discussed in Note 6, the Company recorded a $128 million impairment charge related to its investment in Borgata in the third quarter of 2010, resulting in a $0.17 impact
on third quarter of 2010 diluted loss per share and a $0.18 impact on full year 2010 diluted loss per share. 
        As
discussed in Note 10, the Company recorded a $32 million reduction in the Company's income tax benefit as a result of providing reserves for certain state-level deferred
tax assets in the fourth quarter of 2010, and resulting in a $0.07 impact on fourth quarter diluted loss per share and a $0.07 impact on full year 2010 diluted loss per share. 
142




 










 
 
  SIGNATURES     
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 














 
 MGM Resorts International
 
 


 
 By:
 
/s/ JAMES J. MURREN

  James J. Murren
Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer
    and President
(Principal Executive Officer)
 

 


 

Dated: February 29, 2012
 

 




        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 













SIGNATURE 
 
TITLE 
 
DATE 


 
 

 
 

 


/s/ JAMES J. MURREN

  James J. Murren
 
Chairman of the Board,
Chief Executive Officer and President
(Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ ROBERT H. BALDWIN

  Robert H. Baldwin
 
Chief Design and Construction
Officer and Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ DANIEL J. D'ARRIGO

  Daniel J. D'Arrigo
 
Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
(Principal Financial Officer)
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ ROBERT C. SELWOOD

  Robert C. Selwood
 
Executive Vice President
and Chief Accounting Officer
(Principal Accounting Officer)
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ WILLIAM A. BIBLE

  William A. Bible
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ BURTON M. COHEN

  Burton M. Cohen
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ WILLIE D. DAVIS

  Willie D. Davis
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012




143



 













SIGNATURE 
 
TITLE 
 
DATE 


 
 

 
 

 


/s/ ALEXIS M. HERMAN

  Alexis M. Herman
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ ROLAND HERNANDEZ

  Roland Hernandez
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ ANTHONY MANDEKIC

  Anthony Mandekic
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ ROSE MCKINNEY-JAMES

  Rose McKinney-James
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ DANIEL J. TAYLOR

  Daniel J. Taylor
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012


/s/ MELVIN B. WOLZINGER

  Melvin B. Wolzinger
 
Director
 
February 29, 2012




144




 










 
 
  MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL         SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (In thousands)     

























 
 
Balance at
Beginning of
Period 
 
Addition of
MGM China 
 
Provision for
Doubtful
Accounts 
 
Write-offs,
Net of
Recoveries 
 
Balance at
End of Period 
 


 Allowance for Doubtful Accounts
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
$
93,760
 
$
40,741
 
$
39,093
 
$
(72,387
)
$
101,207
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2010
 
 
97,106
 
 
-
 
 
29,832
 
 
(33,178
)
 
93,760
 


 Year Ended December 31, 2009
 
 
99,606
 
 
-
 
 
54,074
 
 
(56,574
)
 
97,106
 




145





QuickLinks
PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS



ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES

PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.


MANAGEMENT'S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands, except share data)

MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS (In thousands, except per share data)

MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)

MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY For the Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (In thousands)

MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Stock options and stock appreciation rights ("SARs")
Restricted stock units ("RSUs")
Stock options

CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS INFORMATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INFORMATION

SIGNATURES

MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (In thousands)






