
10-K
1
d271809d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
UNITED STATES  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  WASHINGTON, DC 20549 
   
FORM 10-K   


þ
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended:
                     December 31, 2011  OR   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from                  to
                  Commission file number:
            0-14948  Fiserv, Inc. 
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)   






Wisconsin
 
39-1506125

(State or Other Jurisdiction
 
(I.R.S. Employer

of Incorporation or Organization)
 
Identification No.)
 255 Fiserv Dr., Brookfield, WI 53045 
(Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code)  Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:          (262) 879-5000  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

 Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
            None  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes þ   No ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.    Yes ¨   No þ  Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes þ   No ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes þ   No ¨  Indicate by check mark if
disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   þ  Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” and “smaller
reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  Large Accelerated Filer
þ   Accelerated Filer ¨   Non-Accelerated Filer ¨   Smaller Reporting
Company ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule
12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes ¨   No þ  The aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2011 (the last trading day of the second fiscal quarter) was $8,707,371,239 based on a closing
price of $62.63 on the Nasdaq stock market on that date. The number of shares of the registrant’s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding at February 17, 2012 was 138,588,647. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Part III of this report incorporates information by reference to the registrant’s proxy statement for its 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 










 
  
 
  
Page
 

 PART I
  

  








 Item 1.
  
Business
  
 
1
  





 Item 1A.
  
Risk Factors
  
 
9
  





 Item 1B.
  
Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
14
  





 Item 2.
  
Properties
  
 
14
  





 Item 3.
  
Legal Proceedings
  
 
14
  





 Item 4.
  
Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
14
  






  
Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
15
  





 PART II
  

  








 Item 5.
  
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
17
  





 Item 6.
  
Selected Financial Data
  
 
19
  





 Item 7.
  
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
  
 
19
  





 Item 7A.
  
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
31
  





 Item 8.
  
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
32
  





 Item 9.
  
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
  
 
60
  





 Item 9A.
  
Controls and Procedures
  
 
60
  





 Item 9B.
  
Other Information
  
 
62
  





 PART III
  

  








 Item 10.
  
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
62
  





 Item 11.
  
Executive Compensation
  
 
62
  





 Item 12.
  
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
62
  





 Item 13.
  
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
63
  





 Item 14.
  
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
63
  





 PART IV
  

  








 Item 15.
  
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
64
  






  
Signatures
  
 
65
  

  i 


Table of Contents
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words
such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “could,” “should” or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking
statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, that could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. The factors that may affect our results
include, among others: the impact on our business of the current state of the economy, including the risk of reduction in revenue resulting from decreased spending on the products and services we offer; legislative and regulatory actions in the
United States and internationally, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations; our ability to successfully integrate recent acquisitions into our operations; changes in client demand
for our products or services; pricing or other actions by competitors; the impact of our strategic initiatives; our ability to comply with government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other factors discussed in this report under the
heading “Risk Factors.” You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no
obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report. We are not including the information provided on the websites referenced herein as part of, or incorporating such information
by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  PART I  In this report, all references to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Fiserv, Inc. (“Fiserv”), a Wisconsin corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its
consolidated subsidiaries.  Item 1. Business  Overview  Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of financial services technology. We
are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the S&P 500 Index. We serve approximately 16,000 clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies,
retailers, merchants and government agencies. We provide account processing systems; electronic payments processing products and services, such as electronic bill payment and presentment, card-based transaction processing and network services, ACH
transaction processing, account-to-account transfer products and person-to-person payments; Internet and mobile banking systems; and related services including document and payment card production and distribution, check processing and imaging,
source capture systems, and lending and risk management products and services. The majority of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their business and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are
principally located in the United States where we operate data and transaction processing centers, develop software, perform item processing and check imaging, and provide technology support. We also own a 49% interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P.
(“StoneRiver”), which is comprised of our former insurance businesses.  In 2011, we had $4.3 billion in total revenue, $953 million
in net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations and income from continuing operations of $491 million. Processing and services revenue, which in 2011 represented 82% of our consolidated revenue, is primarily generated from
account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years, and we have had high contract renewal rates with our clients. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, our international operations contributed 7%, 6% and 5% of
total revenue, respectively.  We have grown our business by developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, adding new
clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours. In 2007, we acquired CheckFree Corporation 
  1 


Table of Contents

(“CheckFree”), the leading provider of electronic bill payment processing and presentment services and Internet banking solutions. The acquisition was the largest in our history, has
enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services, and has created new opportunities for growth.  We originally
incorporated in Delaware in 1984, and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000. 
The Markets We Serve  General
 The market for products and services offered by financial institutions is experiencing continuous change. The financial industry
regularly introduces and implements new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as
they seek to serve the same ultimate customers.  The growing volume and types of payment transactions and the increased focus on new channels
such as Internet banking and mobile banking have increased the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We believe that financial institutions will need to continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process
transactions, manage information and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products,
services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments.  The number of financial
institutions in the United States has declined steadily at a cumulative annual rate of approximately three percent per year since 1985. Despite this consolidation, the number of customers and accounts, and the amount of deposits serviced by the
financial industry as a whole, has increased over the same period. Transaction growth, particularly in electronic payment transactions, has also continued to increase. In addition, our revenue is diversified and our focus on long-term client
relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation has had on us. We also have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size, and our 50 largest
financial institution clients represent less than 25% of our annual revenue. In recent years, many of our financial institution clients have finalized their spending decisions later in the year. As a result, we have seen, and expect to
continue to see, a larger percentage of our annual revenue occurring in the second half of the year.  We anticipate that demand for products
that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through the Internet or mobile devices, sometimes referred to as “digital channels,” will continue to increase, which should translate to
revenue opportunities for us. As a result, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for
growth. In addition, we believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients. Our operations are reported in the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) and Financial
Institution Services (“Financial”) business segments.  Payments 
The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and other companies with the products and services required to process electronic
payment transactions and to offer their customers access to financial services through digital channels. Financial institutions and other companies have increasingly relied on third-party providers for those products and services, either on a
licensed software or outsourced basis, as an increasing number of payment transactions are completed electronically and as our clients’ customers seek the 
  2 


Table of Contents

convenience of 24-hour digital access to their financial accounts. Within the Payments segment, we primarily provide electronic bill payment and presentment services, debit and other card-based
payment products and services, Internet and mobile banking software and services, and other electronic payments software and services including account-to-account transfers and person-to-person payments. Our businesses in this segment also provide
investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services.  Financial  The businesses in our Financial segment provide financial institutions
with the products and services they need to run their operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations now license software from third-parties or
outsource their data processing requirements by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and enhance their products, services, capacity and capabilities. The licensing of software reduces the need for costly
technical expertise within a financial institution, and outsourcing through the utilization of service bureaus or facilities or resource management capabilities reduces the infrastructure and other costs required to operate systems internally.
Within the Financial segment, we provide banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other
products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions.  Our Strategy 
Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions
that enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear
path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships which are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to
execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework:   


 
•
 
 Portfolio Management. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology
that helps fill a specific market requirement; an opportunity to change market dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial
strategies.   


 
•
 
 Client Relationship Value. We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other matters: continuing to
integrate our products, services and sales groups; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support. 
 


 
•
 
 Operational Effectiveness. We believe we can improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities
created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and shared utility structures to provide cost savings.   


 
•
 
 Capital Discipline. We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability,
which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions.   


 
•
 
 Innovation. Finally, we seek to be an innovation leader in all of our key markets, leveraging our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront
of our industry.  Principal Solutions and Services  Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements on page 52. 
  3 


Table of Contents
Payments  Electronic Banking  Our electronic banking business is comprised of electronic bill
payment and presentment services, biller services, digital channel services, and other electronic payments services such as person-to-person payments and account-to-account transfers. 
Electronic bill payment and presentment  Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product,
CheckFree® RXP®, allows our clients’ customers: to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; to view relevant billing and payment information; to pay and manage
all of their bills in one place; to experience the same speed of payment they would normally have at a biller’s site; and to make convenient next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We use our systems to process
the vast majority of the payment transactions that we handle, which enables us to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an electronic bill delivered by us
or can instruct the system to pay any individual or company within the U.S.  Biller 
Our biller business provides expedited bill payment processing and electronic bill distribution services to companies that deliver substantial volumes of
bills to their customer base. We believe that consumers will continue to shift their financial transactions from traditional, paper-based methods to electronic methods if they have easy-to-access, easy-to-use, secure and cost-effective methods of
receiving and paying their bills electronically. Consumers access our electronic billing and payment systems by accessing a financial institution’s or a biller’s webpage, via www.mycheckfree.com or by using an application on a mobile
device. Additionally, consumers can make bill payments, including emergency or expedited payments, via the Internet or phone or at our nationwide walk-in bill payment locations. These diverse services allow customers of our clients to pay bills
wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or
in-house developed systems. Our electronic biller services business also offers a host of club management and electronic financial transaction services within the health and fitness industry. 
Digital channels  Our principal online consumer and business banking products for larger financial institutions are Corillian Online® and Corillian® Business
Online, platforms upon which we have built a number of software applications to support multiple lines of banking businesses. Using universal standards, Corillian Online and Corillian Business Online have been designed to be highly scalable to meet
the evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new services by adding and integrating applications, such as electronic bill payment and online banking solutions, to any Internet connected point-of-presence.
 Our Mobiliti™ product provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services, including balance inquiry, transaction history, bill payment, person-to-person payments and
transfers through a mobile device to our clients and their customers. It enables financial institutions to reach more consumers than via other mobile technologies because it supports all three mobile access modes: browser, application and text. In
the first quarter of 2011, we acquired Mobile Commerce Ltd. (“M-Com”), an international mobile banking and payments provider, to enhance our mobile and payment capabilities. 
Person-to-person payments and other electronic transactions 
In 2010, we introduced ZashPay®, a person-to-person payments service that enables the secure, electronic movement of money to and from U.S.-based bank accounts, typically within one to three
business days. Using 
  4 


Table of Contents

our existing bill payment network, a payment is originated directly from the sender’s bank account and is transmitted directly into the recipient’s bank account, utilizing the same
secure processes as an online banking transaction. ZashPay can be accessed via a Fiserv website, www.zashpay.com, or through the websites of participating financial institutions. 
In September 2011, we acquired CashEdge, Inc. (“CashEdge”), a leading provider of consumer and business payments solutions
such as account-to-account transfer, account opening and funding, data aggregation, small business invoicing and payments and person-to-person payments. CashEdge’s person-to-person payments solution, Popmoney®, adds complementary and advanced features to our existing offering and expands the reach of our network of financial
institutions, consumers and small businesses that use the service. As of December 31, 2011, nearly 1,400 financial institutions have agreed to offer our person-to-person payments services. 
Card Services  Our card services business is a leader in electronic funds transfer and provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We offer ATM and point of sale PIN-based debit
transaction processing, signature debit processing, ATM driving and monitoring, private label and bankcard credit card processing, electronic benefits transfer switching, prepaid program development and management, and national and regional network
access. We own the ACCEL/Exchange® network and operate approximately 19,000 ATMs. Comprehensive integration with
our account processing products and services allows us to reduce costs and increase efficiencies for our clients through enterprise offerings in areas such as risk management and loyalty rewards. Our card services business has more than 4,300
clients including banks and credit unions of all asset sizes, resellers (via both business alliance and remarketer agreements), finance companies, independent sales organizations and merchant acquirers across the U.S. In 2011, we processed more than
10 billion debit and credit transactions, making us one of the largest financial transaction processors in the nation. 
Output Solutions  Our
output solutions business provides clients with: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment
of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; and office supplies.  Investment Services
 We provide products and services to over 325 financial service organizations—including broker dealers, global asset managers,
investment advisors, banks and insurance companies—delivering financial planning, portfolio management, enhanced trading capabilities, models management, performance measurement, reporting services, billing, and post-trade processing
automation. Our fee-based investment management clients are typically sponsors or managers in the managed accounts and wealth management market that offer a variety of managed account programs to investors. We also support global institutional asset
managers and asset servicers which manage investments of institutions and high-net worth individuals. Our primary product is a real-time portfolio management and trading system used by nine of the top ten largest brokerage firms, based on assets
under management, and eight of the top ten largest asset managers offering managed accounts. Our market leading platform was used for more than 3.4 million accounts as of December 31, 2011. In addition, our acquisition of
AdviceAmerica, Inc. (“AdviceAmerica”) in 2010 extended our capabilities into front-office applications such as financial planning, customer relationship management and proposal tools that support the growing needs of financial advisors.
 Risk Management  Our risk management business provides financial crime, compliance, anti-money laundering, fraud prevention, market surveillance and employee fraud detection products and services. Our offerings include
Fraud Risk Manager™, Fraud Detection SystemSM, FraudLink® and FraudGuard®. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Financial  We provide products and services to meet the financial technology needs of banks, credit unions, thrifts and leasing and finance companies. Many of the products and services that we provide are sold as an
integrated system to our clients and include account, item and lending processing as well as solutions from our Payments segment such as electronic bill payment and presentment, Internet and mobile banking, debit processing and network services and
person-to-person payments.  Account Processing  We provide integrated account servicing and management capabilities to our bank, thrift and credit union clients, as well as complementary value-added products and services. Account processing solutions
are the principal systems that enable a bank to operate and include systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution’s general ledgers, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also
include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their depositors and other customers, as well as to comply with applicable regulations. Account processing solutions are
offered through online data transmission connections to our account processing centers, historically called “data centers” or “service bureaus,” as stand-alone licensed software for installation on client-owned computer systems,
or via a combination of both. More than one in every three financial institutions in the U.S. uses a Fiserv account processing system.  Although many of our clients contract to obtain all or a majority of their data processing requirements from us, the modular design of many of our software solutions allows clients to start with one
application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of terminals and other client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduces a new client’s
initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients’ ability to change equipment, and broadens our market. The principal account processing solutions used by our bank and thrift clients are Premier®, Precision®, Cleartouch® and Signature®. The Signature system is available both domestically and internationally. The principal account processing solutions
primarily used by our credit union clients are Acumen®, Advantage™, CharlotteSM, CubicsPlus®, CUSA®, DataSafe®, Galaxy®, OnCU®, Portico®, Reliance®, Spectrum® and XP2®.  Item Processing and Source Capture  Our item processing business
offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries. Our image-enabled solutions are offered as in-house or service bureau offerings to thousands of account processing and non-account processing clients. Our remote deposit
capture solutions are branded as Source Capture Solutions® and are offered on a common web platform. They
include ATM Source Capture™, Branch Source Capture™, Consumer Source Capture™,
Merchant Source Capture™, Mobile Source Capture™, Regional Source Capture™,
Remittance Coupon Source Capture™ and Teller Source Capture™. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide complete check clearing and image exchange services. Other solutions include image archive with online retrieval,
in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements and fraud detection. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and related software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients’ payments environments from
paper-based to electronic.  Lending Solutions  Our lending business offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries, including: loan origination systems, consumer and commercial lease and loan servicing products, and default
mitigation and business process outsourcing services; a mortgage loan servicing platform and loan origination and tracking systems; and portfolio analytical services. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Corporate Transactions  As noted above, in 2011, we acquired CashEdge and M-Com; in 2010, we acquired AdviceAmerica; and in 2009, we completed the sale of our loan fulfillment services business (“Fiserv LFS”) and the
sale of the balance of our investment support services business (“Fiserv ISS”).  Servicing the Market 
The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on
flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, cost effectiveness and service excellence. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on
the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of
substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to retain clients. For example, we conduct client training in technology centers where we maintain fully equipped demonstration and training facilities that contain equipment used in
the delivery of our services. We also provide on-site training services and online education to clients.  Product Development
 To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. In each of
2011, 2010 and 2009, product development expenditures represented approximately 9% of our total revenue. Our network of development and technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing
systems. Our account processing systems are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we
stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients, including customization of software to meet client needs. We have adopted web services and service-oriented architecture principles in our software development practices so that
we and our clients can benefit from the efficient development of technology. We provide products and services that are designed, developed, maintained and enhanced according to each client’s goals regarding, among other things, service quality,
business development, asset and liability mix, and local market positioning.  Intellectual Property 
We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark
and trade secret laws, internal security practices and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. The majority of our patents cover various electronic billing and payment innovations, other
financial software products or services, or aspects of our separately managed accounts services. We continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our technology. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary
to conduct our business.  Competition  The market for technology products and services in the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing
affiliates of large companies, large computer hardware manufacturers and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. In addition, certain existing and potential financial institution clients may have the ability to create their own
in-house systems. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do and have substantial flexibility in competing with us, including through the use of integrated product offerings and
through pricing. Competitive factors for our business include product quality, service reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely introduction of new products and 
  7 


Table of Contents

features, and price. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors
expand their product lines and services. There has been significant consolidation among providers of information technology products and services to financial institutions, and we believe this consolidation will continue in the future. Additional
information about the markets in which we compete is provided in the segment discussion below.  Payments 
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (“FIS”), Jack Henry and Associates, Inc. (“Jack Henry”) and Online Resources Corporation
compete with us most directly in our bill payment business. Western Union is our primary competitor in our biller-direct bill payment and walk-in payments businesses. A number of other companies compete with us in our card-based payment transaction
processing business, including First Data Corporation, MasterCard Incorporated and Visa, Inc. Certain existing and potential financial institution and biller clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems instead of our
products and services. And many companies that provide outsourced Internet finance solutions are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. Our investment services business competes primarily with
providers of portfolio accounting software and outsourced services and with in-house solutions developed by large financial institutions. 
Financial  Our products and
services in the Financial segment compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. This competition is intensified by the
efforts of vendors and consultants who encourage clients to establish client-operated data centers and the design and implementation of customized software solutions. We also compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products
and services to financial institutions, including FIS, Jack Henry and Open Solutions, Inc.  Government Regulation 
Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as
banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by state regulatory authorities and representatives of the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the federal examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision
of financial institutions. Because we use the Federal Reserve’s ACH network to process many of our transactions, we are subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s rules with respect to its ACH network. In addition, independent auditors
annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients, auditors and regulators.  In addition, in
conducting our electronic commerce business, including our walk-in bill payment, prepaid card, online bill payment and Popmoney and ZashPay personal payment services, we are subject to various federal and state laws and regulations relating to the
electronic movement of money. In order to comply with our obligations under applicable laws, we are required, among other matters, to comply with annual reporting and licensing requirements, to implement operating policies and procedures to protect
the privacy and security of our clients’ information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations.  In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act introduced substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including introducing changes that: affect
the oversight and supervision of financial institutions; provide for a new resolution procedure for large financial companies; create a new agency responsible for 
  8 


Table of Contents

implementing and enforcing compliance with consumer financial laws; introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements; and implement changes to corporate governance and executive
compensation practices. It also calls for a number of studies to be conducted and requires significant rule-making. The Dodd-Frank Act has generated, and will continue to generate, numerous new regulations that will impact the financial industry. It
is too early, however, to fully determine the overall impact of this complex legislation on us or our clients over the long term. 
Employees  We have approximately 20,000
employees, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, often
complemented by management and other employees with direct experience in banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance;
computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management. 
None of our employees in the U.S. are represented by a union, and there have been no work stoppages, strikes or, to our knowledge, attempts to organize.
The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry
professionals. In assessing potential acquisition candidates, we emphasize the quality and stability of the prospective company’s employees.  Available Information  Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the
information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor’s own Internet access charges) through our website our annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.   


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  You should carefully
consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into
actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment.  Our business may be adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions. 
For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry.
Given this concentration, we are exposed to the current global economic conditions in the financial services industry. A more troubled or prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential
clients for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively.  The market for our services is competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial resources. Many of our larger
existing and potential 
  9 


Table of Contents

clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. As a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients’ in-house capabilities. In addition, we expect
that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies, including international providers of similar products and services to ours, having a lower cost structure. We cannot provide any assurance that we
will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial
condition.  If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to
upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients.  The markets for our products and services are characterized by constant
technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services and evolving industry standards. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the
increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. In addition,
we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market
acceptance. We continually engage in significant efforts to upgrade our products and services. If we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of new technology, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to
retain existing clients or attract new ones.  If we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our
results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected.  Failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could
negatively impact our business. Our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. At the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one
of our competitors to provide products and services. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
Consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential
clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients.  Many financial institutions are experiencing operating losses, including some of
our clients. In some cases, these operating losses have resulted in the failure and/or consolidation of financial institutions. Failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients,
which could adversely affect our revenue. Further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. It is also
possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could
provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
The market for our electronic transaction services is evolving and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability.
 If the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services,
it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by the cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and
services offered to consumers and businesses. In order to consistently 
  10 


Table of Contents

increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. In addition, if we are unable to continue to decrease the cost of processing transactions,
our margins could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our electronic commerce business also relies on contracts with financial services organizations, businesses, billers, Internet portals and other
third parties to provide branding for our electronic commerce services and to market our services to their customers. These contracts are important to the growth in demand for our electronic commerce products. If any of these third parties abandons,
curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  The implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. 
In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive
overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States, establishes the new federal Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the “BCFP”) and requires the BCFP and other federal agencies to implement numerous new regulations.
It is difficult to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. To the extent the regulations adopted pursuant to the
Dodd-Frank Act negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to
purchase products and services from us or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. We could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or to modify the
manner in which we provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could limit how much we can charge for our services. We may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our
clients’ needs. Any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation.  We receive, process, store and transmit our clients’ and their customers’ sensitive information electronically. Unauthorized access to our computer systems could result in the theft or
publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the Internet. We rely on
industry-standard encryption, network and Internet security systems; however, advances in criminal capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may compromise or breach our security measures. If more restrictive
privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future, including in the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, we may incur increased compliance costs or become subject to more stringent limitations on business
processes. In addition, computer viruses distributed via the Internet could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses or to
comply with increasingly stringent privacy laws or security requirements could have a negative impact on our reputation, could expose us to liability, could decrease market acceptance of electronic transactions, and could cause our present and
potential clients to choose another service provider. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others.  Third parties
may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. If the owner of intellectual property establishes that
we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its 
  11 


Table of Contents

intellectual property rights, or that our intellectual property rights are invalid, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical. We may
then be forced to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. If we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. We may also be
liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. Any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual
property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation, and
may divert our management and key personnel from operating our business.  Operational failures could harm our business and reputation.
 An operational failure in our transaction processing businesses could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. Interruptions of
service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. A prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us
to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our present and potential clients to choose another service provider. 
We may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to
potential liability.  Our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing
new applications and services. Further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may
experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on platforms used by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of
business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Although we attempt to limit our
potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. 
Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. 
Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. We actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. Agreements entered into for that purpose may not be
enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. Misappropriation of
our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements.  In the past several years, we have sold several businesses, including Fiserv Health, Fiserv ISS, Fiserv Insurance and Fiserv LFS. In connection with these sales, we made representations and warranties
about the businesses and their financial affairs and agreed to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. Our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and
difficulties in integrating operations.  A major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our
ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. We anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates in the
future, which could adversely affect our future growth. Or, businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of
operations. We may not be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. In addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business
and divert our resources.  These risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at
affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of
these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with
acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we
have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges.  If we fail to
comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed.  We are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations
specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory
authorities. It is also possible that new regulations will be imposed on us by the Dodd-Frank Act. If we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our client
relationships and reputation could be harmed and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients. In addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international
operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability.  CheckFreePay, a Fiserv subsidiary, is licensed as a money transmitter in those states where such licensure is required. These licenses require us to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth
and liquidity and also require us to file periodic reports. In addition, our payments businesses are subject to federal regulation in the United States, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from
certain individuals or entities. The complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers or the prohibition
against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions.  Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill
and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations.  Our
balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 77% of our total assets at December 31, 2011. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions, including
significant goodwill and intangible assets associated with our acquisition of CheckFree. On at least an 
  13 


Table of Contents

annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is
written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. 
Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations.  As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $3.4 billion of long-term debt, including current maturities. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our current level
of indebtedness and any future increase in our level of indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make
acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic
and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our
consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from
operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness;
or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be
available at all or on economically favorable terms, particularly given current and anticipated economic and credit market conditions.   


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments  Not
applicable.   


Item 2.
Properties  We currently operate data,
development, item processing and support centers in 139 cities. We own eight buildings, and the remaining 150 locations where we operate our businesses are subject to leases expiring in 2012 and beyond. In addition, we maintain our own national data
communication network consisting of communications processors and leased lines. We believe our facilities and equipment are well maintained and are in good operating condition. We believe that the computer equipment that we own and our various
facilities are adequate for our present and foreseeable business needs. We maintain our own, and contract with multiple service providers to provide, processing back-up in the event of a disaster. We also maintain copies of data and software used in
our business in locations that are separate from our facilities.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  In the normal course
of business, we and our subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against us. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable.

  14 


Table of Contents
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
The names of our executive officers as of February 22, 2012, together with their ages, positions and business experience are described below:
  










 Name
  
Age
 
  
 Title





 Jeffery W. Yabuki
  
 
51
  
  
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director





 James W. Cox
  
 
48
  
  
Executive Vice President, Corporate Development





 Mark A. Ernst
  
 
53
  
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer





 Michael P. Gianoni
  
 
51
  
  
Executive Vice President and Group President, Financial Institutions





 Rahul Gupta
  
 
52
  
  
Executive Vice President and Group President, Digital Payment Solutions





 Thomas J. Hirsch
  
 
48
  
  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary





 Charles W. Sprague
  
 
62
  
  
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





 Steven Tait
  
 
52
  
  
Executive Vice President and Group President, International





 Thomas W. Warsop III
  
 
45
  
  
Executive Vice President and Group President, Depository Institution Services and Distribution and Sales
 Mr. Yabuki has been a director and our President and Chief Executive Officer since 2005. Before joining
Fiserv, Mr. Yabuki served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of H&R Block, Inc., a financial services firm, from 2002 to 2005. From 2001 to 2002, he served as executive vice president of H&R Block and from 1999 to
2001, he served as the president of H&R Block International. From 1987 to 1999, Mr. Yabuki held various executive positions with the American Express Company, a financial services firm, including president and chief executive officer of
American Express Tax and Business Services, Inc.  Mr. Cox has served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Development since
2006. From 2003 to 2006, he served as President of our Health Solutions Group. He joined Fiserv in 2001 with our acquisition of Trewit, Inc., where he was president. Prior to that, Mr. Cox was a partner in Virchow Krause & Company,
LLP, a public accounting and consulting firm.  Mr. Ernst has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since
2011. Prior to joining Fiserv, he served as deputy commissioner for operations support for the Internal Revenue Service from 2009 to 2010, where he was responsible for technology, operations, shared services, human resources and the chief financial
office. From 2008 to 2009, he was chief executive officer of Bellevue Capital LLC, a private investment firm; from 2001 to 2007, he served as chairman, president and chief executive officer of H&R Block, Inc., a financial services firm; and from
1998 to 2000, he served as its chief operating officer. His experience, which includes executive positions with the American Express Company, a financial services firm, spans more than 25 years in the financial services industry. 
Mr. Gianoni has served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Financial Institutions since 2010. Mr. Gianoni joined Fiserv in
2007 as President of our Investment Services business. Prior to that, from 2006 to 2007, he served as executive vice president of CheckFree Corporation and general manager, CheckFree Investment Services Division; and, from 1994 to 2005, he was
senior vice president of DST Systems, Inc.  Mr. Gupta has served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Digital Payment
Solutions since 2011. He joined Fiserv in 2006 as President of our Payments and Industry Products Group and, from 2009 to 2011, 
  15 


Table of Contents

served as President of our Card Services business. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Gupta served as president of U.S. operations at eFunds Corporation, a leading payments and risk management
solutions provider, and held executive and senior management positions with i2 Technologies, Financial Settlement Matrix, Fidelity Investments and Price Waterhouse Consulting.  Mr. Hirsch has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary since 2006. Mr. Hirsch joined Fiserv in 1994 as a divisional assistant
controller, became assistant corporate controller in 1996, corporate vice president in 1997, corporate controller in 1999 and senior vice president and controller in 2002. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Hirsch was an audit manager with
Deloitte & Touche LLP.  Mr. Sprague has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1994. He
has been involved with our corporate and legal concerns since we were formed in 1984.  Mr. Tait has served as Executive Vice
President and Group President, International since early 2012. He joined Fiserv in 2009 as an Executive Vice President and served as Group President, Depository Institution Services from 2010 to 2011. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Tait served as
president of RSM McGladrey, a subsidiary of H&R Block Inc., from 2003 to 2009, and executive vice president, sales and client operations of Gartner, Inc. from 2001 to 2003.  Mr. Warsop has served as Executive Vice President and Group President, Depository Institution Services and Distribution and Sales since early 2012. He joined Fiserv in 2007 and served as Group
President, Financial Institutions from 2007 to 2009 and Group President, Global Sales since 2010. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. Warsop served for 17 years in various capacities, including vice president, U.S. financial services, at Electronic Data
Systems Corp. (“EDS”), a publicly-traded global technology services company. He also served as a vice president with EDS in the United Kingdom and as president of EDS’s business process outsourcing unit in Asia Pacific. 
  16 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Market Price Information  Our common
stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol “FISV.” Set forth below is the high and low sales price of our common stock during the periods presented. 
 




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Quarter Ended
  
    High    
 
  
    Low    
 
  
    High    
 
  
    Low    
 

 March 31
  
$
    63.88
  
  
$
    57.75
  
  
$
    51.58
  
  
$
    44.80
  

 June 30
  
 
64.89
  
  
 
60.46
  
  
 
55.27
  
  
 
44.93
  

 September 30
  
 
65.41
  
  
 
48.75
  
  
 
55.09
  
  
 
44.85
  

 December 31
  
 
61.27
  
  
 
49.35
  
  
 
60.64
  
  
 
53.11
  
 At December 31, 2011, our common stock was held by 2,538 shareholders of record and by a significantly greater
number of shareholders who hold shares in nominee or street name accounts with brokers. The closing price of our common stock on February 21, 2012 was $65.31 per share. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate
paying dividends in the foreseeable future. For additional information regarding our expected use of capital, refer to the discussion in this report under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.”  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any “affiliated purchaser” (as defined in Rule
10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2011:   




















 Period
  
Total Number ofShares Purchased
 
  
Average PricePaid per Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plans orPrograms (1)
 
  
Maximum Numberof Shares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plans orPrograms (1)
 

 October 1-31, 2011
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
5,713,572
  

 November 1-30, 2011
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
5,713,572
  

 December 1-31, 2011
  
 
999,845
  
  
$
    58.04
  
  
 
999,845
  
  
 
4,713,727
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
999,845
  
  



  
 
999,845
  
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  



  


(1)
On May 25, 2011, we announced that our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 7.5 million shares of our common stock. On February 22, 2012,
our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 10.0 million additional shares of our common stock. These authorizations do not expire. 
  17 


Table of Contents
Stock Performance Graph  The stock performance graph and related information presented below is not deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to
Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933
or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing.  The following
graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five years ended December 31, 2011 with the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Computer and Data Processing Services Index. The graph assumes that $100 was
invested on December 31, 2006 in our common stock and each index and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange
Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock.   


  




























 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2006
 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Fiserv, Inc.
  
$
    100
  
  
$
    106
  
  
$
    69
  
  
$
    92
  
  
$
    112
  
  
$
    112
  

 S&P 500 Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
106
  
  
 
67
  
  
 
84
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
99
  

 Nasdaq Computer and Data Processing Services Index
  
 
100
  
  
 
122
  
  
 
70
  
  
 
115
  
  
 
131
  
  
 
127
  

  18 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data  The following
data, which has been affected by acquisitions and dispositions, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
 
























 (In millions, except per share data)
  
 2011
 
 
 2010
 
 
 2009
 
  
 2008
 
  
 2007
 








 Total revenue
  
$
4,337
  
 
$
4,133
  
 
$
4,077
  
  
$
4,587
  
  
$
3,677
  








 Income from continuing operations
  
$
491
  
 
$
506
  
 
$
473
  
  
$
358
  
  
$
412
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
3
  
  
 
211
  
  
 
27
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
472
  
 
$
496
  
 
$
476
  
  
$
569
  
  
$
439
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Net income (loss) per share – basic:
  



 



 



  



  




 Continuing operations
  
$
3.44
  
 
$
3.37
  
 
$
3.06
  
  
$
2.21
  
  
$
2.47
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.07
) 
 
 
0.02
  
  
 
1.30
  
  
 
0.16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3.31
  
 
$
3.30
  
 
$
3.08
  
  
$
3.51
  
  
$
2.64
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Net income (loss) per share – diluted:
  



 



 



  



  




 Continuing operations
  
$
3.40
  
 
$
3.34
  
 
$
3.04
  
  
$
2.20
  
  
$
2.44
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.07
) 
 
 
0.02
  
  
 
1.29
  
  
 
0.16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3.28
  
 
$
3.27
  
 
$
3.06
  
  
$
3.49
  
  
$
2.60
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Total assets
  
$
8,548
  
 
$
8,281
  
 
$
8,378
  
  
$
9,331
  
  
$
11,846
  

 Long-term debt (including current maturities)
  
 
3,395
  
 
 
3,356
  
 
 
3,641
  
  
 
4,105
  
  
 
5,405
  

 Shareholders’ equity
  
 
3,258
  
 
 
3,229
  
 
 
3,026
  
  
 
2,594
  
  
 
2,467
  
  


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. Our discussion is organized as follows: 
 


 
•
 
 Overview. This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, our enterprise priorities
and the trends and developments affecting our industry in order to provide context for management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. 
 


 
•
 
 Critical accounting policies. This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial
condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1 to
the accompanying consolidated financial statements.   


 
•
 
 Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations by comparing the results for the year ended
December 31, 2011 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2010, and comparing the results for the year ended December 31, 2010 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
 


 
•
 
 Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments at
December 31, 2011. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Overview  Company Background  We are a leading global provider of financial services
technology. We provide account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services, Internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. We serve approximately 16,000 clients worldwide including banks, thrifts, credit
unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants and government agencies. The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms
of three to five years, and we have experienced high contract renewal rates with our clients. The majority of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their business and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature.
 Our operations are primarily in the United States and are comprised of the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) segment, the
Financial Institution Services (“Financial”) segment and the Corporate and Other segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, debit and other card-based payment products and services,
Internet and mobile banking software and services, and other electronic payments software and services including account-to-account transfers and person-to-person payments. Our businesses in this segment also provide investment account processing
services for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing
and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. The Corporate and Other segment primarily consists
of unallocated corporate expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and intercompany eliminations.  In September 2011, we
acquired CashEdge Inc. (“CashEdge”), a leading provider of consumer and business payments solutions such as account-to-account transfer, account opening and funding, data aggregation, small business invoicing and payments, and
person-to-person payments, for approximately $460 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition of CashEdge is expected to advance our digital payments strategies.  In the first quarter of 2011, we acquired Mobile Commerce Ltd. (“M-Com”), an international mobile banking and payments provider, and two other companies for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $50 million. M-Com enhances our mobile and payments capabilities, and the other acquired companies add to or enhance specific products or services that we already provide.  Enterprise Priorities  We continue to implement a series of strategic initiatives
to help accomplish our mission of providing integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. These strategic initiatives include active portfolio management of our various businesses, enhancing the
overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. Our key enterprise priorities for 2012 are:
(i) to deliver improved financial performance including an increased level of high quality revenue growth; (ii) to further center the Fiserv culture on growth resulting in more clients and deeper client relationships and to secure a higher
share of strategic solutions; and (iii) to provide innovative solutions that increase differentiation and enhance results for our clients. 
Industry Trends  Market and
regulatory conditions have continued to create a difficult operating environment for financial institutions and other businesses in the United States and internationally. As a result, financial institutions have

  20 


Table of Contents

exercised caution in their information technology spending. Despite this environment, in 2011, our revenue increased 5%, to $4.3 billion, as compared to 2010; net income per share from continuing
operations increased 2% to $3.40, which included a charge of $0.37 per share for the loss on early debt extinguishment, as compared to 2010; and net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations was $953 million. We believe this
revenue growth demonstrates the resilience of our recurring fee-based revenue model, the largely non-discretionary nature of our products and services, and mild improvement in the general condition of the financial industry. In recent years, many of
our financial institution clients have finalized their spending decisions later in the year. As a result, we have seen, and expect to continue to see, a larger percentage of our annual revenue occurring in the second half of the year. We
believe that financial institutions are increasingly focused on technology solutions that we provide to help them win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue and enhance their operating efficiency. We anticipate that we will benefit over
the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house transaction processing solutions to outsourced solutions.  In each
of 2010 and 2009, approximately 1% of all financial institutions in the United States failed or were subject to government action. The number of government actions and the average size of institutions impacted by such actions decreased in 2011 as
compared to 2010. These reductions resulted in the loss of a small number of our clients. In 2012, we believe that the number of government actions will continue to decline as compared to 2011. Bank failures and forced consolidations have been, to
some extent, offset by a general decline in the level of acquisition activity among financial institutions. A consolidation benefits us when a newly combined institution is processed on our platform, or elects to move to one of our platforms, and
negatively impacts us when a competing platform is selected. Consolidations and acquisitions also impact our financial results due to early contract termination fees in our multi-year client contracts. These fees are primarily generated when an
existing client is acquired by another financial institution and can vary from period to period based on the number and size of clients that are acquired and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. We generally do not receive
contract termination fees when a financial institution is subject to a government action.  In addition, legislation such as the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has generated, and will continue to generate, numerous new regulations that will impact the financial industry. It is too early, however, to fully determine the overall impact of this complex
legislation on us or our clients over the long term.  Business Developments 
We continue to invest in the development of new and strategic products in categories such as payments, including person-to-person payments; Mobiliti for
mobile banking and payments services; account processing, including Acumen, our next generation account processing platform for large credit unions; and others that we believe will increase value to our clients and enhance the capabilities of our
existing solutions. We believe our wide range of market-leading solutions along with the investments we are making in new and differentiated products will favorably position us and our clients to capitalize on opportunities in the marketplace.
 Critical Accounting Policies 
General  Our consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates, judgments and
assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical
experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Acquisitions  We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value
of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, can be complex and require significant judgments. We use information available to us to make fair value determinations and engage independent valuation specialists, when necessary, to assist in
the fair value determination of significant acquired long-lived assets. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future
periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate.  Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets  We review the carrying value of goodwill
for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. In 2011, we early adopted guidance from the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the assessment of qualitative
factors in evaluating goodwill for impairment. The adoption of this guidance did not impact our consolidated financial statements. When reviewing goodwill for impairment, we first assess numerous qualitative factors to determine whether it is more
likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units are less than their respective carrying values. Examples of qualitative factors that we assess include our share price, our financial performance, market and competitive factors in our
industry and other events specific to our reporting units. If it is concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then we perform a quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test.
The first step in this test is to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the fair value of the reporting unit
exceeds the carrying value of the unit’s net assets, goodwill of that reporting unit is not impaired and further testing is not required. If the carrying value of the reporting unit’s net assets exceeds the fair value of the unit, then we
perform the second step of the impairment test to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill and any impairment charge. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves judgment and the use of significant estimates
and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding the revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate estimated future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions. Our most recent impairment
assessment in the fourth quarter of 2011 determined that our goodwill was not impaired. Based on the most recent fair value estimates, the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin. 
We review acquired intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be
recoverable. Recoverability is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on estimated fair value. Given the
significance of our goodwill and intangible asset balances, an adverse change in fair value could result in an impairment charge, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Based on our impairment assessments in 2011, we
determined that our acquired intangible assets were not impaired.  Revenue Recognition 
The majority of our revenue is generated from monthly account- and transaction-based fees. Deferred revenue consists primarily of advance billings for
services. Revenue is recognized as services are provided. Revenue is primarily recognized under service agreements that are long-term in nature, generally three to five years, and that do not require management to make significant judgments or
assumptions. Given the nature of our business and the rules governing revenue recognition, our revenue recognition practices do not involve significant estimates that materially affect our results of operations. Additional information about our
revenue recognition policies is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 
  22 


Table of Contents
Other  We do not participate in, nor have we created, any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing, other than letters of credit. We use derivative financial instruments
for managing our exposure to changes in interest rates, managing our ratio of fixed to floating-rate debt and foreign exchange rate risks. We do not enter into any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 
Results of Operations  Components
of Revenue and Expenses  The following summary describes the components of revenue and expenses as presented in our consolidated
statements of income. A description of our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 
Processing and Services  Processing and
services revenue, which in 2011 represented 82% of our consolidated revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years. Revenue is recognized when the related
transactions are processed and services have been performed. Processing and services revenue is most reflective of our business performance because a significant amount of our total operating profit is generated by these services. Cost of processing
and services includes costs directly associated with providing services to clients and includes the following: personnel; equipment and data communication; infrastructure costs, including costs to maintain software applications; client support;
depreciation and amortization; and other operating expenses.  Product  Product revenue, which in 2011 represented 18% of our consolidated revenue, is derived from integrated print and card production (13%) and software licenses (5%). Cost of product includes costs
directly associated with the products sold and includes the following: costs of materials and software development; personnel; infrastructure costs; depreciation and amortization; and other costs directly associated with product revenue. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of: salaries, wages and related expenses paid to sales personnel, administrative employees, and management; advertising and promotional
costs; depreciation and amortization; and other selling and administrative expenses. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Financial Results  The following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year to
year. This information should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.   












































 Years Ended December 31,
(In millions)
  
 
 
 
Percentage of Revenue (1)
 
 
    Increase (Decrease)    
 

  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
  2011  
 
 
  2010  
 
 
  2009  
 
 
2011 vs. 2010
 
 
2010 vs. 2009
 













 Revenue:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Processing and services
  
$
3,543
  
 
$
3,415
  
 
$
3,329
  
 
 
81.7
% 
 
 
82.6
% 
 
 
81.7
% 
 
$
    128
  
 
 
4%
  
 
$
86
  
 
 
3
% 

 Product
  
 
794
  
 
 
718
  
 
 
748
  
 
 
18.3
% 
 
 
17.4
% 
 
 
18.3
% 
 
 
76
  
 
 
11%
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
(4
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
4,337
  
 
 
4,133
  
 
 
4,077
  
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
204
  
 
 
5%
  
 
 
    56
  
 
 
1
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Cost of processing and services
  
 
1,941
  
 
 
1,853
  
 
 
1,844
  
 
 
54.8
% 
 
 
54.3
% 
 
 
55.4
% 
 
 
88
  
 
 
5%
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
-
  

 Cost of product
  
 
601
  
 
 
533
  
 
 
536
  
 
 
75.7
% 
 
 
74.2
% 
 
 
71.7
% 
 
 
68
  
 
 
13%
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(1
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Sub-total
  
 
2,542
  
 
 
2,386
  
 
 
2,380
  
 
 
58.6
% 
 
 
57.7
% 
 
 
58.4
% 
 
 
156
  
 
 
7%
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
-
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
799
  
 
 
740
  
 
 
751
  
 
 
18.4
% 
 
 
17.9
% 
 
 
18.4
% 
 
 
59
  
 
 
8%
  
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(1
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
3,341
  
 
 
3,126
  
 
 
3,131
  
 
 
77.0
% 
 
 
75.6
% 
 
 
76.8
% 
 
 
215
  
 
 
7%
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
996
  
 
 
1,007
  
 
 
946
  
 
 
23.0
% 
 
 
24.4
% 
 
 
23.2
% 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
(1%
) 
 
 
61
  
 
 
6
% 

 Interest expense
  
 
(188
) 
 
 
(198
) 
 
 
(220
) 
 
 
(4.3
%) 
 
 
(4.8
%) 
 
 
(5.4
%) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
(5%
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(10
%) 

 Interest income
  
 
6
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
0.1
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
(40%
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
25
% 

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
(85
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(2.0
%) 
 
 
(0.6
%) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
59
  
 
 
227%
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate
  
$
729
  
 
$
793
  
 
$
734
  
 
 
16.8
% 
 
 
19.2
% 
 
 
18.0
% 
 
$
(64
) 
 
 
(8%
) 
 
$
59
  
 
 
8
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
(1)  Percentage of revenue is calculated as the relevant revenue, expense, income or loss amount divided by total revenue, except for cost of
processing and services and cost of product amounts which are divided by the related component of revenue. 
  24 


Table of Contents
 




















Years Ended December 31,
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate
 
  
 
 

 (In millions)
    
Payments
 
 
Financial
 
 
and Other
 
  
Total
 







 Total revenue:
    



 



 



  




 2011
    
$
    2,381
  
 
$
    2,004
  
 
$
(48
) 
  
$
    4,337
  

 2010
    
 
2,208
  
 
 
1,951
  
 
 
(26
) 
  
 
4,133
  

 2009
    
 
2,160
  
 
 
1,942
  
 
 
(25
) 
  
 
4,077
  







 2011 Revenue growth
    
$
173
  
 
$
53
  
 
$
(22
) 
  
$
204
  

 2011 Revenue growth percentage
    
 
8
% 
 
 
3
% 
 



  
 
5
% 







 2010 Revenue growth
    
$
48
  
 
$
9
  
 
$
(1
) 
  
$
56
  

 2010 Revenue growth percentage
    
 
2
% 
 
 
-
  
 



  
 
1
% 







 Operating income:
    



 



 



  




 2011
    
$
656
  
 
$
613
  
 
$
(273
) 
  
$
996
  

 2010
    
 
625
  
 
 
591
  
 
 
(209
) 
  
 
1,007
  

 2009
    
 
617
  
 
 
569
  
 
 
(240
) 
  
 
946
  







 Operating income growth (decline):
    



 



 



  




 2011
    
$
31
  
 
$
22
  
 
$
(64
) 
  
$
(11
) 

 2011 percentage
    
 
5
% 
 
 
4
% 
 



  
 
(1
%) 

 2010
    
$
8
  
 
$
22
  
 
$
    31
  
  
$
61
  

 2010 percentage
    
 
1
% 
 
 
4
% 
 



  
 
6
% 







 Operating margin:
    



 



 



  




 2011
    
 
27.5
% 
 
 
30.6
% 
 



  
 
23.0
% 

 2010
    
 
28.3
% 
 
 
30.3
% 
 



  
 
24.4
% 

 2009
    
 
28.6
% 
 
 
29.3
% 
 



  
 
23.2
% 







 Operating margin growth (decline): (1)
    



 



 



  




 2011
    
 
(0.8
%) 
 
 
0.3
% 
 



  
 
(1.4
%) 

 2010
    
 
(0.3
%) 
 
 
1.0
% 
 



  
 
1.2
% 
    


(1) 
   Represents the percentage point improvement or decline in operating margin. 
Total Revenue  Total revenue increased
$204 million, or 5%, in 2011 and increased $56 million, or 1%, in 2010 compared to the prior years. The increase in total revenue during 2011 was primarily due to 8% revenue growth in our Payments segment and 3% revenue growth in our Financial
segment, in each case, as compared to 2010. The increase in total revenue during 2010 was primarily due to 2% revenue growth in our Payments segment as compared to 2009. Revenue from acquired companies contributed $30 million and $3 million to
revenue in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Revenue in our Payments segment increased $173 million, or 8%, in 2011 and increased $48 million, or
2%, in 2010 compared to the prior years. Revenue from acquired companies totaled $26 million and positively impacted revenue growth by approximately one percentage point in 2011. Revenue growth in our Payments segment during 2011 and 2010 was
primarily driven by our recurring revenue businesses as processing and services revenue increased $99 million, or 6%, and $58 million, or 4%, in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The growth in both years was primarily due to new clients and increased
transaction volumes from existing clients in our electronic payments businesses, including our electronic banking and card services businesses. In addition, higher postage pass-through revenue, which is included in both product revenue and cost of
product, in our output solutions business contributed approximately three percentage points of growth in this segment in 2011. In 2010, Payments segment revenue growth of 2% was negatively impacted by lower product revenue in our output solutions
business, which decreased $10 million, or 2%, as compared to 2009. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Revenue in our Financial segment increased $53 million, or 3%, in 2011 and increased $9 million, or 0.5%, in
2010 compared to the prior years. Revenue growth in our Financial segment was favorably impacted by increases of $42 million and $31 million, or 2% in each of 2011 and 2010, in processing and services revenue due primarily to increased revenue in
our bank and credit union account processing businesses and, in 2010, by higher contract termination fee revenue. Revenue growth was negatively impacted by volume declines in our check processing business in 2011 and 2010. In 2011, Financial segment
revenue growth was favorably impacted by an $11 million increase in product revenue, primarily due to higher software license revenue, and in 2010, product revenue was negatively impacted by a decline in software license revenue compared to the
prior year periods.  Total Expenses  Total expenses increased $215 million, or 7%, in 2011 compared to 2010 and decreased $5 million, or 0.2%, in 2010 compared to 2009. Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue were 77.0%, 75.6% and
76.8% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue increased to
54.8% in 2011 and decreased to 54.3% in 2010 from 55.4% in 2009. In 2011 and 2010, cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was favorably impacted by increased operating leverage in our recurring revenue
businesses, operating efficiency initiatives across the company, and the implementation of strategic initiatives that lowered our overall cost structure. In 2011, cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was
negatively impacted by increased expenses associated with the development and support of new and existing products and services and increased employee compensation costs. These new products and services include Mobiliti for mobile banking and
payments services and Acumen, our next generation account processing platform for large credit unions.  Cost of product as a percentage of
product revenue was 75.7% in 2011 compared to 74.2% in 2010 and 71.7% in 2009. The increase in cost of product in 2011 was primarily due to an increase in postage pass-through revenue and expenses in our output solutions business. Cost of product
was relatively unchanged in 2010 compared to 2009. Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue, however, increased in 2010 due primarily to a decline in higher-margin software license revenue. 
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $59 million, or 8%, and decreased $11 million, or 1%, in 2011 and 2010, respectively, compared to
the prior years. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily in our Corporate and Other segment due to $18 million of employee severance expenses, increased employee compensation and commission
costs totaling $15 million, and higher merger and integration costs of $12 million. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to lower employee severance expenses and a $5 million gain on
the sale of a facility which reduced expenses in 2010.  Operating Income and Operating Margin 
Total operating income decreased $11 million, or 1%, in 2011 and increased $61 million, or 6%, in 2010 compared to the prior years. Operating income in
2011 was negatively impacted by higher expenses in our Corporate and Other segment and favorably impacted by operating income growth of 5% and 4% in our Payments and Financial segments, respectively. Operating margin decreased to 23.0% in 2011 from
24.4% in 2010 and increased in 2010 from 23.2% in 2009. The operating margin decline of 140 basis points in 2011 was primarily due to increased operating losses in our Corporate and Other segment. The operating margin improvement of 120 basis points
in 2010 was due in part to operational effectiveness activities and the implementation of strategic initiatives that lowered our overall cost structure.  Operating income in our Payments segment increased $31 million, or 5%, and $8 million, or 1%, in 2011 and 2010, respectively, compared to the prior years. Operating margins were 27.5%, 28.3% and 28.6% in
2011, 2010 
  26 


Table of Contents

and 2009, respectively, and decreased 80 basis points in 2011 and 30 basis points in 2010. Payments segment operating income in 2011 and 2010 was favorably impacted by improved revenue growth and
increased operating leverage and scale efficiencies in our electronic payments businesses. Operating margins in 2011 and 2010 were negatively impacted by increased expenses associated with the development and support of new and existing products and
services. In addition, operating margin in the Payments segment in 2011 was negatively impacted by approximately 80 basis points due to increased postage pass-through costs, which are included in both revenue and expenses. 
Operating income in our Financial segment increased $22 million, or 4%, in each of 2011 and 2010 compared to the prior years. Operating margins improved
in both years and were 30.6%, 30.3% and 29.3% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These improvements in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to improved revenue growth and cost efficiencies in our bank and credit union account
and item processing businesses. In addition, in 2011, operating income and operating margin were positively impacted by higher software license revenue and negatively impacted by increased expenses associated with our new Acumen account processing
platform. In 2010, operating income and margins were positively impacted by an increase in higher-margin contract termination fee revenue and negatively impacted by a decrease in higher-margin software license revenue. 
The operating loss in our Corporate and Other segment increased $64 million in 2011 and decreased $31 million in 2010 compared to the prior years. The
operating loss increase in 2011 was primarily due to employee severance costs of $18 million, higher merger and integration costs of $17 million, a $9 million increase in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and a $5 million gain on
the sale of a facility recorded in 2010. The operating loss decrease in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a $21 million decrease in employee severance expenses and lower merger and integration costs associated with our acquisition of
CheckFree Corporation (“CheckFree”).  Interest Expense  Interest expense decreased $10 million, or 5%, and $22 million, or 10%, in 2011 and 2010, respectively, compared to the prior years. These decreases were primarily due to lower average interest rates in
2011 and 2010 as compared to the prior years and, in 2010, a reduction in average outstanding borrowings as compared to 2009.  Loss on
Early Debt Extinguishment  In June 2011, we purchased $700 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.125% senior notes due in November
2012 in a tender offer for $754 million, and in July 2011, we redeemed the remaining $300 million aggregate principal amount of these notes for $322 million. In October 2010, we purchased $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.125% senior
notes due in November 2012 for $276 million. We recorded pre-tax losses on early debt extinguishment for the premiums paid and other costs associated with these transactions of $85 million in 2011 and $26 million in 2010. 
Income Tax Provision  Our effective
income tax rate for continuing operations was 35.1% in 2011, 38.0% in 2010 and 37.2% in 2009. The lower effective tax rate in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the resolution of tax audits and changes in state tax laws. The higher effective
tax rate in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to a tax benefit recognized in 2009 in connection with the final settlement of a CheckFree purchase accounting income tax reserve.  Income from Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliate  Our 49% share of the income of
StoneRiver Group, L.P. (“StoneRiver”) was $18 million, $14 million and $12 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, the $4 million increase in income was primarily due to a $3 million gain on the sale of a business by
StoneRiver. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations  Income (loss) from discontinued operations totaled $(19) million, $(10) million and $3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2009, we recognized a $25 million after-tax gain from the sale of a
business.  Net Income Per Share - Diluted from Continuing Operations  Net income per share-diluted from continuing operations was $3.40 in 2011 compared to $3.34 in 2010 and $3.04 in 2009. Net income per share-diluted from continuing operations was negatively impacted by
losses on early debt extinguishment of $0.37 per share and $0.11 per share in 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, net income per share-diluted from continuing operations was negatively impacted in 2011 by $0.08 per share due to employee
severance expenses. The amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets also reduced net income per share-diluted from continuing operations by $0.69, $0.60 and $0.58 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Liquidity and Capital Resources  Our
primary liquidity needs are: (i) to fund normal operating expenses; (ii) to meet the principal and interest requirements of our outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) to fund capital expenditures and operating lease payments. We believe
these needs will be satisfied using our cash flow generated by operations, our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2011 of $337 million, and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. 
 




















  
  
Years EndedDecember 31,
 
 
Increase (Decrease)
 

 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
$
 
 
      %      
 







 Income from continuing operations
  
$
      491
  
 
$
      506
  
 
$
(15
) 
 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
349
  
 
 
339
  
 
 
10
  
 




 Share-based compensation
  
 
39
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
-  
  
 




 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
85
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
59
  
 




 Dividend from unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
12
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
(28
) 
 




 Working capital
  
 
(20
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 




 Other
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
16
  
 
 
(19
) 
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Operating cash flow
  
$
953
  
 
$
958
  
 
$
(5
) 
 
 
(1
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 







 Capital expenditures
  
$
192
  
 
$
175
  
 
$
          17
  
 
 
    10
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Our net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations, or operating cash flow, decreased $5 million,
or 1%, to $953 million in 2011 from $958 million in 2010. In 2011, our operating cash flow was negatively impacted by a $28 million decrease in the portion of StoneRiver dividends that are included in operating cash flow and a $12 million increase
in working capital compared to 2010. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow to repay debt and to fund capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchases, rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures of $192 million and
$175 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, were less than 5% of our total revenue in each year. The $17 million increase in capital expenditures in 2011 was primarily due to equipment purchases associated with a new data center. 
In 2011, we acquired CashEdge, M-Com, and two other companies for an aggregate purchase price of $511 million, net of cash acquired. In 2011 and 2010, we
received cash dividends of $54 million and $61 million, respectively, from StoneRiver. The portions of these dividends that represented returns on our investment, $12 million in 2011 and $40 million in 2010, are reported in cash flows from operating
activities. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Share Repurchases  We purchased $533 million, $413 million and $175 million of our common stock in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On May 25, 2011, we announced that our board of directors authorized the purchase of
up to 7.5 million shares of our common stock and, as of December 31, 2011, we had 4.7 million shares remaining under this authorization. On February 22, 2012, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 10.0 million
additional shares of our common stock. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans. 
Indebtedness   












  
  
December 31,
 

 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 





 Senior term loan
  
$
1,100
  
  
$
1,100
  

 6.125% senior notes due 2012
  
 
-
  
  
 
999
  

 3.125% senior notes due 2015
  
 
299
  
  
 
299
  

 3.125% senior notes due 2016
  
 
599
  
  
 
-
  

 6.8% senior notes due 2017
  
 
500
  
  
 
500
  

 4.625% senior notes due 2020
  
 
449
  
  
 
449
  

 4.75% senior notes due 2021
  
 
399
  
  
 
-
  

 Other borrowings
  
 
49
  
  
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-term debt (including current maturities)
  
$
3,395
  
  
$
3,356
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 In June 2011, we issued an aggregate of $1.0 billion of senior notes due in 2016 and 2021 and used the proceeds from this
offering to repurchase and redeem our senior notes due in 2012. At December 31, 2011, our long-term debt consisted primarily of $1.1 billion senior term loan borrowings and $2.25 billion of senior notes. We were in compliance with all financial
debt covenants in 2011.  Senior Term Loan  We maintain an unsecured senior term loan facility with a syndicate of banks. Term loan borrowings under this facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a specified margin or the
bank’s base rate and mature in November 2012. The weighted-average variable interest rate on the term loan borrowings was 1.0% at December 31, 2011. The term loan facility contains various restrictions and covenants substantially similar
to those contained in the revolving credit facility described below. At December 31, 2011, a portion of our term loan borrowings, $925 million, was classified in our consolidated balance sheet as long-term debt because we have the intent to
refinance this debt on a long-term basis and could do so under our revolving credit facility that expires in 2014.  Senior Notes
 In June 2011, we issued $1.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $600 million of 3.125% senior notes due in June 2016 and $400 million
of 4.75% senior notes due in June 2021, which pay interest semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year. In September 2010, we issued $300 million of 3.125% senior notes due in October 2015 and $450 million of 4.625% senior notes
due in October 2020, which pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year. Our 6.8% senior notes due in November 2017 pay interest at the stated rate on May 20 and November 20 of each year. The interest rates
applicable to the senior notes are subject to an increase of up to two percent in the event that our credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. The indenture governing the senior notes contains covenants that, among other matters, limit:
our ability to consolidate or merge into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our properties and assets to, another person; our and certain of our subsidiaries’ ability to create or assume liens; and our and certain of our
subsidiaries’ ability to engage in sale and leaseback transactions. 
  29 


Table of Contents
In June 2011, we purchased $700 million aggregate principal amount of our 6.125% senior notes due in
November 2012 in a tender offer for $754 million, and in July 2011, we redeemed the remaining $300 million aggregate principal amount of these notes for $322 million.  Revolving Credit Facility  We maintain a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility with a
syndicate of banks. Borrowings under this facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a specified margin or the bank’s base rate (2.3% at December 31, 2011). There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating
balance requirements. The facility expires in September 2014. As of December 31, 2011, there were letters of credit totaling $28 million and no borrowings outstanding under the facility. The revolving credit facility contains various
restrictions and covenants that require us, among other things, to (i) limit our consolidated indebtedness to no more than three and one-half times consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain
other adjustments and (ii) maintain consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments of at least three times consolidated interest expense. 
Interest Rate Hedge Contracts 
We maintain interest rate swap agreements (“Swaps”) with total notional values of $1.0 billion to hedge against changes in interest rates and
forward-starting interest rate swap agreements (“Forward-Starting Swaps”) with total notional values of $550 million to hedge against changes in interest rates applicable to forecasted fixed rate borrowings. The Swaps and Forward-Starting
Swaps expire in September 2012 and have been designated by us as cash flow hedges. The Swaps effectively fix the interest rates on floating rate term loan borrowings at a weighted-average rate of approximately 5.0%, prior to financing spreads and
related fees. The Forward-Starting Swaps effectively fix the benchmark interest rate on forecasted five-year and ten-year borrowings at weighted-average rates of approximately 3.2% and 3.9%, respectively. 
Shelf Registration Statement  In
2010, we filed a “shelf” registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the registration statement, we may sell common stock, preferred stock and debt securities, or a combination thereof. Each time we sell
securities pursuant to the shelf registration statement, we will provide a prospectus supplement that will contain specific information about the terms of the securities being offered and of the offering. We may offer and sell the securities
pursuant to this prospectus from time to time in one or more of the following ways: through underwriters or dealers, through agents, directly to purchasers or through a combination of any of these methods of sales. Proceeds from the sale of these
securities may be used to repay debt or for working capital, acquisitions or general corporate purposes.  Other 
Access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital, our ability to refinance maturing debt and our ability to fund future acquisitions. Our ability to
access capital on favorable terms depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our debt securities, perception of our potential future earnings and the market price of our common stock. As of
December 31, 2011, we had a credit rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook from Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and BBB- with a stable outlook from Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services
(“S&P”) on our senior unsecured debt securities.  The interest rate payable on our senior notes is subject to adjustment from
time to time if Moody’s or S&P downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the debt rating applicable to the notes. If the ratings from Moody’s or S&P decrease below investment grade, the per annum interest rate on the notes is subject
to increase by up to 2.0%. In no event will the per annum interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate applicable to the senior notes nor will the total increase in the per annum interest rate exceed 2.0% above the original interest
rate. 
  30 


Table of Contents
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 
We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements other than letters of credit. The following table details our contractual cash obligations at
December 31, 2011:   
























 (In millions)
  
 
 
  
Less than
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
More than
 

  
  
Total
 
  
1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
5 years
 








 Long-term debt including interest (1)
  
$
    4,169
  
  
$
    335
  
  
$
    1,214
  
  
$
    1,080
  
  
$
    1,540
  

 Minimum operating lease payments (1)
  
 
350
  
  
 
92
  
  
 
135
  
  
 
71
  
  
 
52
  

 Purchase obligations (1)
  
 
147
  
  
 
86
  
  
 
56
  
  
 
5
  
  
 
-
  

 Income tax obligations
  
 
27
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
15
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Total
  
$
4,693
  
  
$
516
  
  
$
1,420
  
  
$
1,162
  
  
$
1,595
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
    


(1) 
 Interest, operating lease and purchase obligations are reported on a pre-tax basis. 
 


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will
result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. We are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. We actively
monitor these risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management.  In connection with processing electronic payments
transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. These subscriber funds are invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the United
States government. Subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. Based on average subscriber funds balances during 2011 of approximately
$1.0 billion, a 1% increase in applicable interest rates would increase our annual pre-tax income by approximately $10 million, and if applicable interest rates decreased to zero, our annual pre-tax income would decrease by less than $5 million.
 We manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt and through the use of interest rate
hedge contracts. We currently use interest rate swaps with total notional values of $1 billion and forward-starting swaps with total notional values of $550 million at December 31, 2011 to partially hedge our exposure to interest rate changes
and to control financing costs. Generally, under these swaps, we agree with a counter-party to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed notional amount. Based on our outstanding debt with
variable interest rates at December 31, 2011, a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in 2012 by less than $5 million.  We conduct business in the United States and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. dollar denominated
foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. In 2011, 7% of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. Risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the
U.S. dollar. If these rates were 10% higher or lower at December 31, 2011, there would not have been a material adverse impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 
  31 


Table of Contents


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements   








  
  
Page
 




 Consolidated Statements of Income
  
 
33
  




 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  
 
34
  




 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
35
  




 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity
  
 
36
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
37
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
38
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
59
  

  32 


Table of Contents
FISERV, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
















 In millions, except per share data
Years ended December 31,
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 




 Processing and services
  
$
    3,543
  
 
$
    3,415
  
 
$
    3,329
  

 Product
  
 
794
  
 
 
718
  
 
 
748
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
4,337
  
 
 
4,133
  
 
 
4,077
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 




 Cost of processing and services
  
 
1,941
  
 
 
1,853
  
 
 
1,844
  

 Cost of product
  
 
601
  
 
 
533
  
 
 
536
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
799
  
 
 
740
  
 
 
751
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
3,341
  
 
 
3,126
  
 
 
3,131
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
996
  
 
 
1,007
  
 
 
946
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(188
) 
 
 
(198
) 
 
 
(220
) 

 Interest income
  
 
6
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
8
  

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
(85
) 
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
729
  
 
 
793
  
 
 
734
  

 Income tax provision
  
 
(256
) 
 
 
(301
) 
 
 
(273
) 

 Income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
18
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
12
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
491
  
 
 
506
  
 
 
473
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
472
  
 
$
496
  
 
$
476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income (loss) per share - basic:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
3.44
  
 
$
3.37
  
 
$
3.06
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.07
) 
 
 
0.02
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3.31
  
 
$
3.30
  
 
$
3.08
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income (loss) per share - diluted:
  



 



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
3.40
  
 
$
3.34
  
 
$
3.04
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
(0.13
) 
 
 
(0.07
) 
 
 
0.02
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3.28
  
 
$
3.27
  
 
$
3.06
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Shares used in computing net income (loss) per share:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
142.6
  
 
 
150.4
  
 
 
154.5
  

 Diluted
  
 
144.2
  
 
 
151.7
  
 
 
155.4
  

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  33 


Table of Contents
FISERV, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
















 In millions Years ended December 31,
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Net income
  
$
        472
  
 
$
        496
  
 
$
        476
  

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 



 




 Fair market value adjustment on cash flow hedges, net of income taxes of $34 million, $12 million and $1 million
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
(18
) 
 
 
(2
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for net realized losses on cash flow hedges included in interest expense, net of income taxes of $21
million, $23 million and $27 million
  
 
31
  
 
 
34
  
 
 
40
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(8
) 
 
 
3
  
 
 
13
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(28
) 
 
 
19
  
 
 
51
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
$
444
  
 
$
515
  
 
$
527
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  34 


Table of Contents
FISERV, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 In millions December 31,
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 ASSETS
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
337
  
 
$
563
  

 Trade accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts
  
 
666
  
 
 
572
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
44
  
 
 
37
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
309
  
 
 
245
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
1,356
  
 
 
1,417
  





 Property and equipment, net
  
 
258
  
 
 
267
  

 Intangible assets, net
  
 
1,881
  
 
 
1,879
  

 Goodwill
  
 
4,720
  
 
 
4,377
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
333
  
 
 
341
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
    8,548
  
 
$
    8,281
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
  
$
836
  
 
$
537
  

 Current maturities of long-term debt
  
 
179
  
 
 
3
  

 Deferred revenue
  
 
369
  
 
 
351
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
1,384
  
 
 
891
  





 Long-term debt
  
 
3,216
  
 
 
3,353
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
617
  
 
 
627
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
73
  
 
 
181
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
5,290
  
 
 
5,052
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
  



 








 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 




 Preferred stock, no par value: 25.0 million shares authorized; none issued
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value: 450.0 million shares authorized; 197.9 million shares issued
  
 
2
  
 
 
2
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
777
  
 
 
750
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(78
) 
 
 
(50
) 

 Retained earnings
  
 
5,339
  
 
 
4,867
  

 Treasury stock, at cost, 57.8 million and 51.0 million shares
  
 
(2,782
) 
 
 
(2,340
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
3,258
  
 
 
3,229
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
8,548
  
 
$
8,281
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  35 


Table of Contents
FISERV, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 


































 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
AdditionalPaid-In
Capital
 
 
AccumulatedOther
ComprehensiveLoss
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Common Stock
 
  
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
 
  
Treasury Stock
 

 In millions
  
Shares
 
  
Amount
 
  
 
 
 
  
Shares
 
 
Amount
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
198
  
  
$
2
  
  
$
706
  
 
$
(120
) 
 
$
    3,895
  
 

  
 
42
  
 
$
(1,889
) 

 Net income
  



  



  



 



 
 
476
  
 

  



 




 Other comprehensive income
  



  



  



 
 
      51
  
 



 

  



 




 Share-based compensation
  



  



  
 
36
  
 



 



 

  



 




 Shares issued under stock plans including income tax benefits
  



  



  
 
(15
) 
 



 



 

  
 
(1
) 
 
 
          62
  

 Purchases of treasury stock
  



  



  



 



 



 

  
 
4
  
 
 
(178
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
198
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
727
  
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
4,371
  
 

  
 
45
  
 
 
(2,005
) 

 Net income
  



  



  



 



 
 
496
  
 

  



 




 Other comprehensive income
  



  



  



 
 
19
  
 



 

  



 




 Share-based compensation
  



  



  
 
39
  
 



 



 

  



 




 Shares issued under stock plans including income tax benefits
  



  



  
 
(16
) 
 



 



 

  
 
(2
) 
 
 
83
  

 Purchases of treasury stock
  



  



  



 



 



 

  
 
8
  
 
 
(418
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
198
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
750
  
 
 
(50
) 
 
 
4,867
  
 

  
 
51
  
 
 
(2,340
) 

 Net income
  



  



  



 



 
 
472
  
 

  



 




 Other comprehensive loss
  



  



  



 
 
(28
) 
 



 

  



 




 Share-based compensation
  



  



  
 
39
  
 



 



 

  



 




 Shares issued under stock plans including income tax benefits
  



  



  
 
(12
) 
 



 



 

  
 
(2
) 
 
 
91
  

 Purchases of treasury stock
  



  



  



 



 



 

  
 
9
  
 
 
(533
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
198
  
  
$
    2
  
  
$
    777
  
 
$
(78
) 
 
$
5,339
  
 

  
 
58
  
 
$
(2,782
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements. 
  36 


Table of Contents
FISERV, INC. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 In millions Years ended December 31,
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
472
  
 
$
496
  
 
$
476
  

 Adjustment for discontinued operations
  
 
19
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and other amortization
  
 
192
  
 
 
191
  
 
 
188
  

 Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets
  
 
157
  
 
 
148
  
 
 
145
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
39
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
36
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
29
  
 
 
37
  
 
 
64
  

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
85
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
-
  

 Dividend from unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
12
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
-
  

 Settlement of interest rate hedge contracts
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Other non-cash items
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
(21
) 
 
 
(13
) 

 Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from acquisitions and dispositions:
  



 



 




 Trade accounts receivable
  
 
(83
) 
 
 
(12
) 
 
 
44
  

 Prepaid expenses and other assets
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
4
  
 
 
(9
) 

 Accounts payable and other liabilities
  
 
78
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
(71
) 

 Deferred revenue
  
 
10
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
(7
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations
  
 
953
  
 
 
958
  
 
 
850
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Capital expenditures, including capitalization of software costs
  
 
(192
) 
 
 
(175
) 
 
 
(198
) 

 Payments for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired
  
 
(511
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
-
  

 Payments from (advances to) unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
42
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
(57
) 

 Other investing activities
  
 
(4
) 
 
 
19
  
 
 
7
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations
  
 
(665
) 
 
 
(116
) 
 
 
(248
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Proceeds from long-term debt
  
 
1,189
  
 
 
748
  
 
 
-
  

 Repayments of long-term debt, including premium and costs
  
 
(1,226
) 
 
 
(1,060
) 
 
 
(475
) 

 Issuance of common stock and treasury stock
  
 
        73
  
 
 
        62
  
 
 
        45
  

 Purchases of treasury stock
  
 
(533
) 
 
 
(413
) 
 
 
(175
) 

 Other financing activities
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations
  
 
(498
) 
 
 
(671
) 
 
 
(601
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations
  
 
(210
) 
 
 
171
  
 
 
1
  

 Net cash transactions transferred (to) from discontinued operations
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
29
  
 
 
132
  

 Beginning balance
  
 
563
  
 
 
363
  
 
 
230
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
337
  
 
$
563
  
 
$
363
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations cash flow information:
  



 



 




 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
  
$
(16
) 
 
$
14
  
 
$
(6
) 

 Net cash provided by investing activities
  
 
-
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
921
  

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(821
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
29
  
 
 
94
  

 Net cash transactions transferred from (to) continuing operations
  
 
16
  
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
(132
) 

 Beginning balance - discontinued operations
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
38
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance - discontinued operations
  
$
-
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009  1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  Description of the Business
 Fiserv, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”) provide financial services technology to clients worldwide,
including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants and government agencies. The Company provides account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services,
Internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. The Company is principally located in the United States where it operates data and transaction processing centers, develops software, performs item processing and check imaging and provides
technology support.  The Company’s operations are comprised of the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) segment, the
Financial Institution Services (“Financial”) segment and the Corporate and Other segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, debit and other card-based payment products and services,
Internet and mobile banking software and services, and other electronic payments software and services including account-to-account transfers and person-to-person payments. The businesses in this segment also provide investment account processing
services for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing
and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. The Corporate and Other segment primarily consists
of unallocated corporate expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and intercompany eliminations.  Principles of
Consolidation  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Fiserv, Inc. and all 100% owned subsidiaries. Investments in
less than 50% owned affiliates in which the Company has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 
Use of Estimates  The preparation of
financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 
Statements of Comprehensive Income  In
2011, the Company early adopted new accounting guidance from the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) related to financial statement presentation of comprehensive income. Upon adoption of this guidance, the Company has reported a
separate statement of comprehensive income for all periods presented. This guidance does not change the nature of or accounting for items reported within comprehensive income, and the adoption of this guidance did not impact the Company’s
results of operations or financial condition. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Dispositions 
In 2009, the Company completed the sale of its loan fulfillment services business and the remaining operating assets of its investment
support services business (“Fiserv ISS”). Revenue from these disposed of businesses totaled $147 million in 2009. Income (loss) from discontinued operations was ($19) million, ($10) million and $3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and included income tax benefits of $13 million, $14 million and $13 million, respectively. In 2009, income from discontinued operations included an after-tax gain of $25 million, including income taxes of $15 million, with respect to
a contingent purchase price payment for Fiserv ISS. 
Fair Value Measurements 
The Company applies fair value accounting for all assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in its
financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value represents the amount that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining
the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, which are required to be recorded at fair value, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market and the market-based risk measurements or assumptions that market participants
would use in pricing the asset or liability.  The fair values of cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, settlement assets and
obligations, accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate the carrying values due to the short period of time to maturity. The fair value of interest rate hedge contracts is described in Note 4 and was based on valuation models using inputs
which are available through third party dealers and are related to market price risk, such as the LIBOR interest rate curve, credit risk and time value. The fair value of long-term debt is also described in Note 4 and was estimated using discounted
cash flows based on the Company’s current incremental borrowing rates or quoted prices in active markets. 
Derivative Instruments 
Derivative instruments are recorded on the balance sheets as either an asset or liability measured at fair value. If the derivative is
designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the hedged
item affects earnings. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in earnings. To the extent the fair value hedge is effective, there is an offsetting adjustment to the basis
of the item being hedged. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of hedges are recognized in earnings. The Company’s policy is to enter into derivative financial instruments with creditworthy institutions and not to enter into such
instruments for speculative purposes. 
Foreign Currency 
Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, where the functional currency is the local currency, are translated into U.S.
dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates during the period. Gains and losses from foreign currency translation are recorded as a separate component
of accumulated other comprehensive loss. 
Revenue Recognition 
Processing and services revenue is primarily derived from account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, transaction
processing, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit 
  39 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 

processing services, consulting services and software maintenance fees, and is recognized as services are provided. Software maintenance fee revenue for ongoing client support is recognized
ratably over the term of the applicable support period, which is generally 12 months. Deferred revenue consists primarily of advance billings for services and is recognized as revenue when the services are provided. 
Product revenue is primarily derived from integrated print and card production sales and software licenses. The Company recognizes product revenue, such
as software license sales, which represent less than 5% of total revenue, when written contracts are signed, delivery of the product has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. 
The Company includes reimbursements from clients, such as postage and telecommunication costs, in processing and services revenue, product revenue, cost
of processing and services, and cost of product. 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of: salaries, wages and related expenses paid to sales personnel,
administrative employees and management; advertising and promotional costs; depreciation and amortization; and other selling and administrative expenses. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and investments with original maturities of 90 days or less. 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
The Company analyzes trade accounts receivable by considering historical bad debts, client creditworthiness, current economic trends,
changes in client payment terms and collection trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Any change in the assumptions used in analyzing a specific account receivable may result in an additional allowance for
doubtful accounts being recognized in the period in which the change occurs. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $9 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
Settlement Assets and Obligations 
Settlement assets of $183 million and $114 million were included in prepaid expenses and other current assets at December 31,
2011 and 2010, respectively, and settlement obligations of $195 million and $119 million were included in accrued expenses at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Settlement assets and obligations primarily represent amounts receivable
from or payable to clients, agents and payment networks associated with the Company’s walk-in and expedited bill payment service businesses. The majority of these assets and obligations result from timing differences, which are typically less
than seven days, between collecting funds from payment networks or directly from consumers who are making payments and depositing the funds collected into the Company’s bank accounts. Settlement assets and obligations also arise due to the
reporting of transactions to clients prior to fulfilling the payment obligation. The increase in settlement assets and obligations at December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 was primarily due to timing as settlement balances are
typically higher when the last business day of the year is a Friday. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment are reported at cost. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed primarily using the straight-line
method over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the leasehold period, if applicable. Property and equipment consisted of the following at December 31: 
 














 (In millions)
  
Estimated    Useful Lives    
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 

 Land
  
-
  
$
23
  
 
$
23
  

 Data processing equipment
  
3 to 7 years
  
 
489
  
 
 
476
  

 Buildings and leasehold improvements
  
5 to 40 years
  
 
190
  
 
 
184
  

 Furniture and equipment
  
3 to 10 years
  
 
    163
  
 
 
    161
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  

  
 
865
  
 
 
844
  

 Less: accumulated depreciation
  

  
 
(607
) 
 
 
(577
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Total
  

  
$
258
  
 
$
267
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense for all property and equipment totaled $78 million, $84 million and $91 million in 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively. 
Intangible Assets 
Intangible assets consisted of the following at December 31: 
 
















 2011 (In millions)
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Net BookValue
 






 Customer related intangible assets
  
$
1,699
  
  
$
440
  
  
$
1,259
  

 Acquired software and technology
  
 
420
  
  
 
204
  
  
 
216
  

 Trade names
  
 
114
  
  
 
20
  
  
 
94
  

 Capitalized software development costs
  
 
720
  
  
 
477
  
  
 
243
  

 Purchased software
  
 
362
  
  
 
293
  
  
 
69
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Total
  
$
3,315
  
  
$
1,434
  
  
$
1,881
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 2010 (In millions)
  
GrossCarryingAmount
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
  
Net BookValue
 






 Customer related intangible assets
  
$
    1,639
  
  
$
343
  
  
$
1,296
  

 Acquired software and technology
  
 
339
  
  
 
152
  
  
 
187
  

 Trade names
  
 
114
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
100
  

 Capitalized software development costs
  
 
730
  
  
 
512
  
  
 
218
  

 Purchased software
  
 
377
  
  
 
299
  
  
 
78
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Total
  
$
3,199
  
  
$
    1,320
  
  
$
    1,879
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Customer related intangible assets represent customer contracts and relationships obtained as part of acquired businesses
and are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally 10 to 20 years. Acquired software and 
  41 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 

technology represents software and technology intangible assets obtained as part of acquired businesses and are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally four to eight years. Trade
names are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally 10 to 20 years. Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets, which include customer related intangible assets, acquired software and technology and trade names, totaled $157
million, $148 million and $145 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company estimates that annual amortization expense with respect to acquired intangible assets will be approximately $160 million in 2012 through 2014, approximately
$150 million in 2015 and approximately $110 million in 2016.  Capitalized software development costs represent the capitalization of certain
costs incurred to develop new software or to enhance existing software which is marketed externally or utilized by the Company to process client transactions. Costs are capitalized commencing when the technological feasibility of the software has
been established. Routine maintenance of software products, design costs and development costs incurred prior to establishment of a product’s technological feasibility are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software development costs are
amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally five years. Gross software development costs capitalized for new products and enhancements to existing products totaled $93 million, $86 million and $81 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Amortization of previously capitalized development costs was $67 million, $58 million and $45 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Purchased software represents software licenses purchased from third parties and is amortized over the estimated useful lives, generally three to five years. Amortization of purchased software totaled $38
million, $42 million and $43 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Goodwill 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed
in a business combination. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if circumstances indicate possible impairment. In 2011, the Company early adopted guidance from the FASB related to the assessment of
qualitative factors in evaluating goodwill for impairment. The adoption of this guidance did not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements. When reviewing goodwill for impairment, the Company first assesses numerous qualitative
factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units are less than their respective carrying values. If it is concluded that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less
than its carrying value, then the Company performs a two step quantitative impairment test by comparing reporting unit carrying values to estimated fair values. No impairment was identified in the Company’s annual impairment assessment in the
fourth quarter of 2011. The changes in goodwill during 2011 and 2010 were as follows:   
















 (In millions)
  
Payments
 
  
Financial
 
  
Total
 






 Goodwill - December 31, 2009
  
$
3,108
  
  
$
1,263
  
  
$
4,371
  

 Acquired goodwill
  
 
6
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Goodwill - December 31, 2010
  
 
3,114
  
  
 
1,263
  
  
 
4,377
  

 Acquired goodwill
  
 
343
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
343
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Goodwill - December 31, 2011
  
$
    3,457
  
  
$
    1,263
  
  
$
    4,720
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Asset Impairment 
The Company reviews property and equipment, intangible assets and its investment in unconsolidated affiliate for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. The Company reviews capitalized software development costs for impairment at each balance

  42 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 

sheet date. Recoverability of property and equipment and intangible assets is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated
by the asset. The Company’s investment in unconsolidated affiliate is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to its estimated fair value and is impaired if the decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary.
Measurement of any impairment loss is based on estimated fair value. 
Deferred Financing Costs 
Deferred financing costs related to the Company’s long-term debt totaled $35 million and $36 million at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively. Accumulated amortization was $16 million and $18 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Deferred financing costs are reported in other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized
over the term of the underlying debt using the interest method. 
Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 
Accounts payable and accrued expenses consisted of the following at December 31: 
 












 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 





 Trade accounts payable
  
$
96
  
  
$
92
  

 Settlement obligations
  
 
195
  
  
 
119
  

 Accrued compensation and benefits
  
 
157
  
  
 
126
  

 Client deposits
  
 
114
  
  
 
63
  

 Interest rate hedge contracts (1)
  
 
98
  
  
 
-
  

 Other accrued expenses
  
 
176
  
  
 
137
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 Total
  
$
    836
  
  
$
    537
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
 The Company’s
interest rate hedge contracts described in Note 4 expire in September 2012. Accordingly, the fair value of such instruments is reported as a current liability at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2010, a long-term liability of $76 million
was recorded related to the fair value of these instruments. 
Income Taxes 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences attributable to differences between
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply
to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance, if necessary, is recorded against deferred tax assets for which utilization of the asset is not likely. 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes, consisted of the following at December 31: 
 












 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 





 Fair market value adjustment on cash flow hedges
  
$
(71
) 
 
$
(51
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
         3
  

 Other
  
 
        (2
) 
 
 
(2
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Total
  
$
(78
) 
 
$
(50
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  43 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Net Income Per Share 
Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted net
income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and common stock equivalents outstanding during the year. Common stock equivalents consist of stock options and restricted stock units and are computed using the
treasury stock method. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company excluded 0.9 million, 2.8 million and 2.9 million weighted-average shares, respectively, from the calculations of common stock equivalents for anti-dilutive stock options.
 The computation of shares used in calculating basic and diluted net income per share is as follows: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 






 Weighted-average common shares outstanding used for the calculation of net income per share - basic
  
 
142.6
  
  
 
150.4
  
  
 
154.5
  

 Common stock equivalents
  
 
1.6
  
  
 
1.3
  
  
 
0.9
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total shares used for the calculation of net income per share - diluted
  
 
144.2
  
  
 
151.7
  
  
 
155.4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Supplemental Cash Flow Information 
 
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 






 Interest paid
  
$
    183
  
  
$
    182
  
  
$
    211
  

 Income taxes paid
  
 
195
  
  
 
209
  
  
 
242
  

 Liabilities assumed in acquisitions of businesses
  
 
18
  
  
 
1
  
  
 
-
  

 Notes received in sale of businesses
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
10
  

 Treasury stock purchases settled the following year
  
 
9
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
4
  

2.  Acquisitions 
The Company completed four acquisitions in 2011 and one acquisition in 2010. The results of operations for all acquired businesses
have been included in the accompanying consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition. Revenue from acquired companies totaled $30 million in 2011. Pro forma information for the Company’s acquisitions is not provided because
they did not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations.  In September 2011, the Company acquired
CashEdge Inc. (“CashEdge”), a leading provider of consumer and business payments solutions such as account-to-account transfer, account opening and funding, data aggregation, small business invoicing and payments, and person-to-person
payments, for approximately $460 million, net of cash acquired. The acquisition of CashEdge is expected to advance the Company’s digital payments strategies. The purchase price allocation resulted in customer related intangible assets of $54
million, software and technology of $44 million, goodwill of approximately $330 million, net deferred tax assets of $26 million and other identifiable net assets of less than $10 million. The goodwill recognized in this transaction is not expected
to be deductible for tax purposes and is primarily attributed to anticipated revenue and earnings growth associated with the products and services that CashEdge provides and the anticipated value of selling CashEdge’s products and services into
the Company’s existing client base.  In the first quarter of 2011, the Company acquired Mobile Commerce Ltd. (“M-Com”), an
international mobile banking and payments provider, and two other companies for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 
  44 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 

$50 million, net of cash acquired. M-Com enhances the Company’s mobile and payments capabilities, and the other acquired companies add to or enhance specific products or services that
the Company already provides. The purchase price allocations for these acquisitions resulted in technology and customer intangible assets totaling approximately $40 million. The remaining purchase price was primarily allocated to goodwill.

3.  Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliate 
The Company owns a 49% interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P. (“StoneRiver”) and reports its share of StoneRiver’s net
income as income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate. The Company’s investment in StoneRiver was $119 million and $156 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and was reported within other long-term assets in the
consolidated balance sheets. In 2011 and 2010, the Company received cash dividends of $54 million and $61 million, respectively, from StoneRiver which were recorded as reductions in the Company’s investment in StoneRiver. A portion of the
dividends, $12 million in 2011 and $40 million in 2010, represented a return on the Company’s investment and were reported in cash flows from operating activities. In 2010, in a non-cash transaction, the Company retired a $59 million obligation
owed to StoneRiver in exchange for the retirement of loans receivable due from StoneRiver totaling $59 million. Also in 2010, the Company received loan repayments from StoneRiver totaling $28 million. 
4.  Long-Term Debt 
The Company’s long-term debt consisted of the following at December 31: 
 












 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 





 Senior term loan
  
$
1,100
  
 
$
1,100
  

 6.125% senior notes due 2012
  
 
-
  
 
 
999
  

 3.125% senior notes due 2015
  
 
299
  
 
 
299
  

 3.125% senior notes due 2016
  
 
599
  
 
 
-
  

 6.8% senior notes due 2017
  
 
500
  
 
 
500
  

 4.625% senior notes due 2020
  
 
449
  
 
 
449
  

 4.75% senior notes due 2021
  
 
399
  
 
 
-
  

 Other borrowings
  
 
49
  
 
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt
  
 
3,395
  
 
 
3,356
  





 Less: current maturities
  
 
(179
) 
 
 
(3
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Long-term debt
  
$
    3,216
  
 
$
    3,353
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The estimated fair value of total debt was $3.5 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company was
in compliance with all financial debt covenants in 2011. Annual maturities of the Company’s total debt were as follows at December 31, 2011 (in millions):   








 Years ending December 31,
  
 
 




 2012
  
$
179
  

 2013
  
 
2
  

 2014
  
 
968
  

 2015
  
 
299
  

 2016
  
 
599
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1,348
  


  
  
  
 




 Total
  
$
    3,395
  


  
  
  
 

  45 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Senior Term Loan  The Company maintains an unsecured senior term loan facility with a syndicate of banks. Term loan borrowings under this facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a specified margin or
the bank’s base rate and mature in November 2012. The weighted-average variable interest rate on the term loan borrowings was 1.0% at December 31, 2011. The term loan facility contains various restrictions and covenants substantially
similar to those contained in the revolving credit facility described below. At December 31, 2011, $925 million of the Company’s term loan borrowings were classified in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet and this footnote as
maturing in September 2014, the date that the Company’s revolving credit facility expires, because the Company has the intent to refinance this debt on a long-term basis and could do so under its revolving credit facility. 
Senior Notes  In June 2011, the Company
issued $1.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $600 million of 3.125% senior notes due in June 2016 and $400 million of 4.75% senior notes due in June 2021, which pay interest semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year. In
September 2010, the Company issued $300 million of 3.125% senior notes due in October 2015 and $450 million of 4.625% senior notes due in October 2020, which pay interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 of each year. The
Company’s 6.8% senior notes due in November 2017 pay interest at the stated rate on May 20 and November 20 of each year. The interest rates applicable to the senior notes are subject to an increase of up to two percent in the event
that the Company’s credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. The indenture governing the senior notes contains covenants that, among other matters, limit: the Company’s ability to consolidate or merge into, or convey, transfer or
lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to, another person; the Company’s and certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to create or assume liens; and the Company’s and certain of its subsidiaries’ ability to
engage in sale and leaseback transactions.  In June 2011, the Company purchased $700 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.125% senior
notes due in November 2012 in a tender offer for $754 million, and in July 2011, the Company redeemed the remaining $300 million aggregate principal amount of these notes for $322 million. In October 2010, the Company purchased $250 million
aggregate principal amount of its 6.125% senior notes due in November 2012 for $276 million. The Company recorded pre-tax losses on early debt extinguishment for the premiums paid and other costs associated with these transactions of $85 million in
2011 and $26 million in 2010.  Revolving Credit Facility  The Company maintains a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. Borrowings under this facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR plus a specified margin or the
bank’s base rate (2.3% at December 31, 2011). There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The facility expires in September 2014. As of December 31, 2011, there were letters of credit totaling
$28 million and no borrowings outstanding under the facility. The revolving credit facility contains various restrictions and covenants that require the Company, among other things, to (i) limit its consolidated indebtedness to no more than
three and one-half times consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments and (ii) maintain consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain
other adjustments of at least three times consolidated interest expense.  Interest Rate Hedge Contracts 
The Company maintains interest rate swap agreements (“Swaps”) with total notional values of $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010 to
hedge against changes in interest rates and forward-starting interest rate swap 
  46 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 

agreements (“Forward-Starting Swaps”) with total notional values of $550 million and $200 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, to hedge against changes in interest
rates applicable to forecasted fixed rate borrowings. The Swaps and Forward-Starting Swaps expire in September 2012 and have been designated by the Company as cash flow hedges. The Swaps effectively fix the interest rates on floating rate term loan
borrowings at a weighted-average rate of approximately 5.0%, prior to financing spreads and related fees. The Forward-Starting Swaps effectively fix the benchmark interest rate on forecasted five-year and ten-year borrowings at weighted-average
rates of approximately 3.2% and 3.9%, respectively. The fair values of the Swaps and Forward-Starting Swaps totaled $98 million at December 31, 2011 and were recorded in current liabilities and in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of
income taxes, in the consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2010, the fair values of the Swaps and Forward-Starting Swaps totaled $65 million and were recorded as a $76 million long-term liability and an $11 million long-term asset,
respectively. The components of other comprehensive income pertaining to interest rate hedge contracts are presented in the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In 2011 and 2010, interest expense recognized due to hedge ineffectiveness
was not significant, and no amounts were excluded from the assessments of hedge effectiveness. Based on the amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2011, the Company estimates that it will recognize
approximately $35 million in interest expense during the next twelve months related to interest rate hedge contracts.  In connection with its
issuance of senior notes in 2011, the Company entered into a series of treasury lock agreements (“Treasury Locks”), which were designated as cash flow hedges, with total notional values of $600 million to hedge against changes in interest
rates. Upon issuance of the senior notes, the Company paid $6 million to settle the Treasury Locks. This payment was included in cash flows from operating activities, was recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes of $2
million, and will be recognized as interest expense over the terms of the senior notes. 
5.  Income Taxes 
A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company’s effective income tax rate for continuing operations is
as follows:   
















  
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 






 Statutory federal income tax rate
  
 
35.0%
  
 
 
35.0%
  
  
 
35.0%
  

 State income taxes, net of federal effect
  
 
2.2%
  
 
 
2.7%
  
  
 
2.9%
  

 Other, net
  
 
(2.1%
) 
 
 
0.3%
  
  
 
(0.7%
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Effective income tax rate
  
 
35.1%
  
 
 
38.0%
  
  
 
37.2%
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  47 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
The income tax provision for continuing operations was as follows: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
  
    2010    
 
  
    2009    
 






 Current:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
$
    201
  
  
$
    224
  
  
$
    176
  

 State
  
 
18
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
29
  

 Foreign
  
 
8
  
  
 
8
  
  
 
4
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
227
  
  
 
264
  
  
 
209
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Deferred:
  



  



  




 Federal
  
 
21
  
  
 
32
  
  
 
57
  

 State
  
 
5
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
7
  

 Foreign
  
 
3
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
29
  
  
 
37
  
  
 
64
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Income tax provision
  
$
256
  
  
$
301
  
  
$
273
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at December 31: 
 












 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 





 Accrued expenses
  
$
42
  
 
$
36
  

 Interest rate hedge contracts
  
 
48
  
 
 
38
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
37
  
 
 
34
  

 Net operating loss and credit carry-forwards
  
 
75
  
 
 
26
  

 Other
  
 
        19
  
 
 
        19
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
221
  
 
 
153
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Software development costs
  
 
(91
) 
 
 
(80
) 

 Intangible assets
  
 
(630
) 
 
 
(608
) 

 Property and equipment
  
 
(49
) 
 
 
(26
) 

 Other
  
 
(24
) 
 
 
(29
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(794
) 
 
 
(743
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Total
  
$
(573
) 
 
$
(590
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported in the consolidated balance sheets as follows at December 31:
  












 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 





 Current assets
  
$
        44
  
 
$
        37
  

 Noncurrent liabilities
  
 
(617
) 
 
 
(627
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Total
  
$
(573
) 
 
$
(590
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  48 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Unrecognized tax benefits were as follows: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
    2011    
 
 
    2010    
 
 
    2009    
 






 Unrecognized tax benefits - Beginning of year
  
$
    41
  
 
$
    47
  
 
$
77
  

 Increases for tax positions taken during the current year
  
 
5
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
      4
  

 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years
  
 
2
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
1
  

 Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years
  
 
(7
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
-
  

 Decreases for settlements
  
 
(5
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
(34
) 

 Lapse of the statute of limitations
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Unrecognized tax benefits - End of year
  
$
27
  
 
$
41
  
 
$
47
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 At December 31, 2011, unrecognized tax benefits of $20 million, net of federal and state benefits, would affect the
effective income tax rate from continuing operations if recognized. In 2012, reductions to unrecognized tax benefits for decreases in tax positions taken in prior years, settlements and the lapse of statutes of limitations are estimated to total
approximately $3 million. The Company classifies interest and penalties related to income taxes as components of its income tax provision. The income tax provision from continuing operations included interest and penalties on unrecognized tax
benefits of less than $2 million in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. Accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits totaled $5 million and $7 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The Company’s federal tax returns for 2006 through 2011 and tax returns in certain states and foreign jurisdictions for 2005 through 2011 remain
subject to examination by taxing authorities. At December 31, 2011, the Company had federal net operating loss carry-forwards of $157 million, which expire in 2014 through 2031, state net operating loss carry-forwards of $212 million, which
expire in 2012 through 2031, and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards of $63 million, $10 million of which expire in 2016 through 2031 and the remainder of which do not expire. 
6.  Employee Stock and Savings Plans 
Stock Plans  The
Company recognizes the fair value of share-based compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and shares received by employees under the Company’s employee stock purchase plan in cost of processing and services, cost of
product and selling, general and administrative expense in its consolidated statements of income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the underlying awards.  The Company’s share-based compensation primarily consists of the following: 
Stock Options – The Company generally grants stock options to employees and non-employee directors at exercise prices equal
to the fair market value of the Company’s stock on the dates of grant, which are typically in the first quarter of the year. Stock options generally vest over a three year period beginning on the first anniversary of the grant. All stock
options expire ten years from the date of the award. The Company recognizes compensation expense for the fair value of the stock options over the requisite service period of the stock option award. 
  49 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Restricted Stock Units – The Company awards restricted stock units to
employees and non-employee directors. The Company recognizes compensation expense for restricted stock units based on the market price on the date of award over the period during which the awards vest. 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan – The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to
purchase a limited number of shares of common stock each quarter through payroll deductions at 85% of the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the last business day of each calendar quarter. The Company recognizes compensation expense
related to the 15% discount on the purchase date.  Share-based compensation expense was $39 million, $39 million and $36 million in 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. The income tax benefits related to share-based compensation totaled $14 million, $13 million and $12 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost
for unvested stock options and restricted stock units, net of estimated forfeitures, of $54 million is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years.  The weighted-average estimated fair value of stock options granted during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $22.68, $17.46 and $12.76 per share, respectively. The fair values of stock options granted were estimated
on the date of grant using a binomial option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 






 Expected life (in years)
  
 
6.6
  
  
 
6.6
  
  
 
6.5
  

 Average risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.9%
  
  
 
3.3%
  
  
 
2.3%
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
31.0%
  
  
 
31.9%
  
  
 
33.7%
  

 Expected dividend yield
  
 
0%
  
  
 
0%
  
  
 
0%
  
 The Company determined the expected life of stock options using historical data adjusted for known factors that would
alter historical exercise behavior. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect as of the grant date. Expected volatility is determined using weighted-average implied market volatility combined with historical
volatility. The Company believes that a blend of historical volatility and implied volatility better reflects future market conditions and better indicates expected volatility than purely historical volatility. 
A summary of stock option activity is as follows:   




















  
 
Shares(In thousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercisePrice
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualTerm(Years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue(In millions)
 







 Stock options outstanding - December 31, 2010
 
 
6,582
  
 
$
43.57
  
  



  




 Granted
 
 
1,016
  
 
 
61.57
  
  



  




 Forfeited
 
 
(363
) 
 
 
50.16
  
  



  




 Exercised
 
 
(1,341
) 
 
 
41.93
  
  



  





 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Stock options outstanding - December 31, 2011
 
 
5,894
  
 
$
    46.64
  
  
 
6.0
  
  
$
74
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Stock options exercisable - December 31, 2011
 
 
3,929
  
 
$
44.32
  
  
 
4.8
  
  
$
57
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  50 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
A summary of restricted stock unit activity is as follows: 
 












  
  
Shares(In thousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant DateFair Value
 





 Restricted stock units - December 31, 2010
  
 
1,080
  
 
$
43.49
  

 Granted
  
 
567
  
 
 
58.45
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(183
) 
 
 
47.27
  

 Vested
  
 
(294
) 
 
 
45.16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Restricted stock units - December 31, 2011
  
 
1,170
  
 
$
49.56
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The table below presents additional information related to stock option and restricted stock unit activity: 
 
















 (In millions)
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 






 Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised
  
$
26
  
  
$
23
  
  
$
10
  

 Cash received from stock option exercises
  
 
54
  
  
 
47
  
  
 
24
  

 Gross income tax benefit from stock option exercises
  
 
10
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
4
  

 Fair value of restricted stock units upon vesting
  
 
18
  
  
 
14
  
  
 
4
  
 As of December 31, 2011, 3.9 million share-based awards were available for grant under the Fiserv, Inc. 2007
Omnibus Incentive Plan. Under its employee stock purchase plan, the Company issued 0.5 million, 0.5 million and 0.6 million shares in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of January 1, 2012, there were 2.3 million shares
available for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan.  Employee Savings Plans 
The Company and its subsidiaries have defined contribution savings plans covering substantially all employees. Under the plans, eligible participants may
elect to contribute a specified percentage of their salaries, subject to certain limitations. The Company makes matching contributions, subject to certain limitations, and makes discretionary contributions based upon the attainment of specified
financial results. Expenses for company contributions under these plans totaled $38 million, $29 million and $37 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
7.  Leases, Commitments and Contingencies 
Leases  The Company
leases certain facilities and equipment under operating leases. Most leases contain renewal options for varying periods. Future minimum rental payments on operating leases with initial non-cancellable lease terms in excess of one year were due as
follows at December 31, 2011 (in millions):   








 Years Ending December 31,
  
 
 




 2012
  
$
92
  

 2013
  
 
78
  

 2014
  
 
57
  

 2015
  
 
42
  

 2016
  
 
29
  

 Thereafter
  
 
52
  


  
  
  
 




 Total
  
$
350
  


  
  
  
 

  51 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
Rent expense for all operating leases was $113 million, $110 million and $115 million during 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively.  Commitments and Contingencies  Litigation  In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are named
as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the Company. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s consolidated financial statements.  Electronic Payments Transactions 
In connection with the Company’s processing of electronic payments transactions, funds received from subscribers are invested from the time the
Company collects the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. These subscriber funds are invested in short-term instruments that are guaranteed by the United States government. Subscriber funds, which are not included in the
Company’s consolidated balance sheets, can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity, and totaled approximately $1.5 billion at December 31, 2011. 
Indemnifications and Warranties 
Subject to limitations and exclusions, the Company generally indemnifies its clients from certain costs resulting from claims of patent, copyright or
trademark infringement associated with its clients’ use of the Company’s products or services. The Company may also warrant to clients that its products and services will operate substantially in accordance with identified specifications.
From time to time, in connection with sales of businesses, the Company agrees to indemnify the buyers for liabilities associated with the businesses that are sold. Payments net of recoveries under such indemnification or warranty provisions were not
material to the Company’s results of operations or financial position. 
8.  Business Segment Information 
The Company’s operations are comprised of the Payments and Industry Products (“Payments”) segment, the Financial
Institution Services (“Financial”) segment and the Corporate and Other segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, debit and other card-based payment products and services, Internet
and mobile banking software and services, and other electronic payments software and services including account-to-account transfers and person-to-person payments. The businesses in this segment also provide investment account processing services
for separately managed accounts, card and print personalization services, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides banks, thrifts and credit unions with account processing services, item processing and
source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. The Corporate and Other segment primarily consists of
unallocated corporate expenses, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and intercompany eliminations. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
 




















 (In millions)
  
Payments
 
  
Financial
 
  
Corporateand Other
 
 
Total
 







 2011
  



  



  



 




 Processing and services revenue
  
$
1,736
  
  
$
1,820
  
  
$
(13
) 
 
$
3,543
  

 Product revenue
  
 
645
  
  
 
184
  
  
 
(35
) 
 
 
794
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
2,381
  
  
 
2,004
  
  
 
(48
) 
 
 
4,337
  

 Operating income
  
 
656
  
  
 
613
  
  
 
(273
) 
 
 
996
  

 Total assets
  
 
6,092
  
  
 
2,131
  
  
 
325
  
 
 
8,548
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
98
  
  
 
80
  
  
 
14
  
 
 
192
  

 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
95
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
173
  
 
 
349
  







 2010
  



  



  



 




 Processing and services revenue
  
$
1,637
  
  
$
1,778
  
  
$
-
  
 
$
3,415
  

 Product revenue
  
 
571
  
  
 
173
  
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
718
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
2,208
  
  
 
1,951
  
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
4,133
  

 Operating income
  
 
625
  
  
 
591
  
  
 
(209
) 
 
 
1,007
  

 Total assets
  
 
5,707
  
  
 
1,973
  
  
 
601
  
 
 
8,281
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
91
  
  
 
78
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
175
  

 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
90
  
  
 
82
  
  
 
167
  
 
 
339
  







 2009
  



  



  



 




 Processing and services revenue
  
$
    1,579
  
  
$
    1,747
  
  
$
3
  
 
$
    3,329
  

 Product revenue
  
 
581
  
  
 
195
  
  
 
(28
) 
 
 
748
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
2,160
  
  
 
1,942
  
  
 
(25
) 
 
 
4,077
  

 Operating income
  
 
617
  
  
 
569
  
  
 
(240
) 
 
 
946
  

 Total assets
  
 
5,762
  
  
 
2,145
  
  
 
    471
  
 
 
8,378
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
103
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
6
  
 
 
198
  

 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
87
  
  
 
86
  
  
 
160
  
 
 
333
  
 Revenue to clients outside the United States comprised 7%, 6% and 5% of total revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
9.  Subsidiary Guarantors of Long-Term Debt 
Certain of the Company’s 100% owned domestic subsidiaries (“Guarantor Subsidiaries”) jointly and severally and fully
and unconditionally guarantee the Company’s indebtedness under its revolving credit facility, senior term loan and senior notes. The following condensed consolidating financial information is presented on the equity method and reflects
summarized financial information for: (a) the Company; (b) the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis; and (c) the Company’s non-guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis. In 2011, several of the Company’s subsidiaries,
which were not previously guarantor subsidiaries, were merged with and into guarantor subsidiaries. The following condensed consolidating financial information reflects this reorganization for all periods presented. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 



 



 




 Processing and services
  
$
-
  
 
$
    2,582
  
 
$
    1,094
  
 
$
    (133
) 
 
$
    3,543
  

 Product
  
 
-
  
 
 
709
  
 
 
147
  
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
794
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
-
  
 
 
3,291
  
 
 
1,241
  
 
 
(195
) 
 
 
4,337
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cost of processing and services
  
 
-
  
 
 
1,427
  
 
 
647
  
 
 
(133
) 
 
 
1,941
  

 Cost of product
  
 
-
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
91
  
 
 
(62
) 
 
 
601
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
95
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
799
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
95
  
 
 
2,493
  
 
 
948
  
 
 
(195
) 
 
 
3,341
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
(95
) 
 
 
798
  
 
 
293
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
996
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(140
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(182
) 

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
(85
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(85
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and income from investment in unconsolidated
affiliate
  
 
(320
) 
 
 
765
  
 
 
284
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
729
  

 Income tax (provision) benefit
  
 
133
  
 
 
(284
) 
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(256
) 

 Income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
-
  
 
 
18
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
18
  

 Equity in earnings of consolidated affiliates
  
 
678
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(678
) 
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
491
  
 
 
499
  
 
 
179
  
 
 
(678
) 
 
 
491
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(19
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
    472
  
 
$
499
  
 
$
182
  
 
$
(681
) 
 
$
472
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 



 



 




 Processing and services
  
$
-
  
 
$
    2,522
  
 
$
990
  
 
$
(97
) 
 
$
    3,415
  

 Product
  
 
-
  
 
 
617
  
 
 
136
  
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
718
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
-
  
 
 
3,139
  
 
 
    1,126
  
 
 
(132
) 
 
 
4,133
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cost of processing and services
  
 
9
  
 
 
1,369
  
 
 
574
  
 
 
(99
) 
 
 
1,853
  

 Cost of product
  
 
1
  
 
 
473
  
 
 
92
  
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
533
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
99
  
 
 
450
  
 
 
191
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
740
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
109
  
 
 
2,292
  
 
 
857
  
 
 
(132
) 
 
 
3,126
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
(109
) 
 
 
847
  
 
 
269
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
1,007
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(78
) 
 
 
(100
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(188
) 

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(26
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and income from investment in unconsolidated
affiliate
  
 
(213
) 
 
 
747
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
793
  

 Income tax (provision) benefit
  
 
78
  
 
 
(281
) 
 
 
(98
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(301
) 

 Income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
-
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
14
  

 Equity in earnings of consolidated affiliates
  
 
641
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(641
) 
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
506
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
(641
) 
 
 
506
  

 Loss from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
(10
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
(10
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
    496
  
 
$
480
  
 
$
160
  
 
$
    (640
) 
 
$
496
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  54 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF INCOME 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Revenue:
  



 



 



 



 




 Processing and services
  
$
 -
  
 
$
    2,389
  
 
$
    1,018
  
 
$
(78
) 
 
$
    3,329
  

 Product
  
 
-
  
 
 
638
  
 
 
139
  
 
 
(29
) 
 
 
748
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenue
  
 
-
  
 
 
3,027
  
 
 
1,157
  
 
 
(107
) 
 
 
4,077
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expenses:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cost of processing and services
  
 
2
  
 
 
1,299
  
 
 
621
  
 
 
(78
) 
 
 
1,844
  

 Cost of product
  
 
1
  
 
 
473
  
 
 
88
  
 
 
(26
) 
 
 
536
  

 Selling, general and administrative
  
 
100
  
 
 
434
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
751
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total expenses
  
 
103
  
 
 
2,206
  
 
 
926
  
 
 
(104
) 
 
 
3,131
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
 
(103
) 
 
 
821
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
946
  

 Interest (expense) income, net
  
 
46
  
 
 
(252
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(212
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and income from investment in unconsolidated
affiliate
  
 
(57
) 
 
 
569
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
734
  

 Income tax (provision) benefit
  
 
28
  
 
 
(217
) 
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
(273
) 

 Income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate
  
 
-
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
12
  

 Equity in earnings of consolidated affiliates
  
 
502
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(502
) 
 
 
-
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
473
  
 
 
364
  
 
 
140
  
 
 
(504
) 
 
 
473
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
3
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
18
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
3
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
    476
  
 
$
349
  
 
$
158
  
 
$
    (507
) 
 
$
476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
DECEMBER 31, 2011   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
  
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

ASSETS
  



  



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
73
  
  
$
71
  
 
$
193
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
337
  

 Trade accounts receivable, net
  
 
-
  
  
 
402
  
 
 
264
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
666
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
25
  
  
 
167
  
 
 
161
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
353
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
98
  
  
 
640
  
 
 
618
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
1,356
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investments in consolidated affiliates
  
 
7,864
  
  
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(7,864
) 
 
 
-
  

 Goodwill and intangible assets, net
  
 
15
  
  
 
5,306
  
 
 
1,280
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
6,601
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
28
  
  
 
452
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
591
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
8,005
  
  
$
6,398
  
 
$
2,009
  
 
$
(7,864
) 
 
$
8,548
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



  



 



 



 




 Total current liabilities
  
$
397
  
  
$
616
  
 
$
371
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
1,384
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,171
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
43
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
3,216
  

 Due to (from) consolidated affiliates
  
 
524
  
  
 
(344
) 
 
 
(180
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
655
  
  
 
12
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
690
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
4,747
  
  
 
286
  
 
 
257
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
5,290
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
3,258
  
  
 
6,112
  
 
 
1,752
  
 
 
(7,864
) 
 
 
3,258
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
    8,005
  
  
$
    6,398
  
 
$
    2,009
  
 
$
    (7,864
) 
 
$
    8,548
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  55 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET 
DECEMBER 31, 2010   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

ASSETS
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
343
  
 
$
68
  
 
$
152
  
 
$
 -
  
 
$
563
  

 Trade accounts receivable, net
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
376
  
 
 
198
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
572
  

 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
  
 
40
  
 
 
131
  
 
 
111
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
282
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
381
  
 
 
575
  
 
 
461
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
1,417
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investments in consolidated affiliates
  
 
7,387
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(7,387
) 
 
 
-
  

 Goodwill and intangible assets, net
  
 
7
  
 
 
5,405
  
 
 
844
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
6,256
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
38
  
 
 
476
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
608
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
7,813
  
 
$
6,456
  
 
$
1,399
  
 
$
(7,387
) 
 
$
8,281
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
  



 



 



 



 




 Total current liabilities
  
$
87
  
 
$
492
  
 
$
312
  
 
$
 -
  
 
$
891
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
3,347
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
3,353
  

 Due to (from) consolidated affiliates
  
 
396
  
 
 
(202
) 
 
 
(194
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
754
  
 
 
39
  
 
 
15
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
808
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
4,584
  
 
 
335
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
5,052
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
3,229
  
 
 
6,121
  
 
 
1,266
  
 
 
(7,387
) 
 
 
3,229
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
    7,813
  
 
$
    6,456
  
 
$
    1,399
  
 
$
    (7,387
) 
 
$
    8,281
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations
  
$
(10
) 
 
$
    737
  
 
$
    226
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
953
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures, including capitalization of software costs
  
 
(13
) 
 
 
(144
) 
 
 
(35
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(192
) 

 Payments for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired
  
 
-
  
 
 
(473
) 
 
 
(38
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(511
) 

 Other investing activities
  
 
311
  
 
 
45
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
    (311
) 
 
 
38
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities from continuing operations
  
 
298
  
 
 
(572
) 
 
 
(80
) 
 
 
(311
) 
 
 
    (665
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 (Repayments of) proceeds from long-term debt, net
  
 
(80
) 
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
46
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(37
) 

 Purchases of treasury stock
  
 
    (533
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(533
) 

 Other financing activities
  
 
71
  
 
 
(159
) 
 
 
(151
) 
 
 
311
  
 
 
72
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations
  
 
(542
) 
 
 
(162
) 
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
311
  
 
 
(498
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations
  
 
(254
) 
 
 
3
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(210
) 

 Net cash flows from discontinued operations
  
 
(16
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(16
) 

 Beginning balance
  
 
343
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
152
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
563
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
73
  
 
$
71
  
 
$
193
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
337
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  56 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities from continuing operations
  
$
(4
) 
 
$
    749
  
 
$
    213
  
 
$
 -
  
 
$
    958
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures, including capitalization of software costs
  
 
(6
) 
 
 
(135
) 
 
 
(34
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(175
) 

 Other investing activities
  
 
939
  
 
 
22
  
 
 
24
  
 
 
    (926
) 
 
 
59
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities from continuing operations
  
 
933
  
 
 
(113
) 
 
 
(10
) 
 
 
(926
) 
 
 
(116
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Repayments of long-term debt, net
  
 
(308
) 
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(312
) 

 Purchases of treasury stock
  
 
(413
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
(413
) 

 Other financing activities
  
 
51
  
 
 
(734
) 
 
 
(189
) 
 
 
926
  
 
 
54
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations
  
 
(670
) 
 
 
(738
) 
 
 
(189
) 
 
 
926
  
 
 
(671
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations
  
 
259
  
 
 
(102
) 
 
 
14
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
171
  

 Net cash flows from discontinued operations
  
 
29
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
29
  

 Beginning balance
  
 
55
  
 
 
170
  
 
 
138
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
363
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
    343
  
 
$
68
  
 
$
152
  
 
$
 -
  
 
$
563
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009   
























 (In millions)
  
ParentCompany
 
 
GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Non-GuarantorSubsidiaries
 
 
Eliminations
 
 
Consolidated
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations
  
$
44
  
 
$
    552
  
 
$
    258
  
 
$
(4
) 
 
$
850
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Capital expenditures, including capitalization of software costs
  
 
(3
) 
 
 
(155
) 
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
1
  
 
 
(198
) 

 Other investing activities
  
 
(58
) 
 
 
(331
) 
 
 
(172
) 
 
 
511
  
 
 
(50
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations
  
 
(61
) 
 
 
(486
) 
 
 
(213
) 
 
 
512
  
 
 
(248
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 



 



 




 Repayments of long-term debt, net
  
 
(471
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(475
) 

 Purchases of treasury stock
  
 
    (175
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
    (175
) 

 Other financing activities
  
 
554
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
(508
) 
 
 
49
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations
  
 
(92
) 
 
 
-
  
 
 
(1
) 
 
 
    (508
) 
 
 
(601
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents from continuing operations
  
 
(109
) 
 
 
66
  
 
 
44
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
1
  

 Net cash flows from discontinued operations
  
 
132
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
132
  

 Beginning balance
  
 
32
  
 
 
104
  
 
 
94
  
 
 
-
  
 
 
230
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
55
  
 
$
170
  
 
$
138
  
 
$
-
  
 
$
363
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  57 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Continued 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 
10. Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 
Quarterly financial data for 2011 and 2010 was as follows:   
























 (In millions, except per share data)
  
 
 
  
 
 

  
  
FirstQuarter
 
  
SecondQuarter
 
  
ThirdQuarter
 
  
FourthQuarter
 
  
Full Year
 

 2011
  



  



  



  



  




 Total revenue
  
$
    1,048
  
  
$
    1,065
  
  
$
    1,063
  
  
$
    1,161
  
  
$
    4,337
  

 Cost of processing and services
  
 
474
  
  
 
479
  
  
 
490
  
  
 
498
  
  
 
1,941
  

 Cost of product
  
 
150
  
  
 
145
  
  
 
141
  
  
 
165
  
  
 
601
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
203
  
  
 
190
  
  
 
189
  
  
 
217
  
  
 
799
  

 Total expenses
  
 
827
  
  
 
814
  
  
 
820
  
  
 
880
  
  
 
3,341
  

 Operating income
  
 
221
  
  
 
251
  
  
 
243
  
  
 
281
  
  
 
996
  

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
-
  
  
 
61
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
85
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
114
  
  
 
97
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
153
  
  
 
491
  

 Net income
  
 
112
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
143
  
  
 
472
  

 Net income per share - continuing operations:
  



  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
0.78
  
  
$
0.68
  
  
$
0.90
  
  
$
1.09
  
  
$
3.44
  

 Diluted
  
$
0.77
  
  
$
0.67
  
  
$
0.89
  
  
$
1.07
  
  
$
3.40
  








 2010
  



  



  



  



  




 Total revenue
  
$
1,008
  
  
$
1,022
  
  
$
1,025
  
  
$
1,078
  
  
$
4,133
  

 Cost of processing and services
  
 
462
  
  
 
457
  
  
 
461
  
  
 
473
  
  
 
1,853
  

 Cost of product
  
 
136
  
  
 
129
  
  
 
128
  
  
 
140
  
  
 
533
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
172
  
  
 
185
  
  
 
185
  
  
 
198
  
  
 
740
  

 Total expenses
  
 
770
  
  
 
771
  
  
 
774
  
  
 
811
  
  
 
3,126
  

 Operating income
  
 
238
  
  
 
251
  
  
 
251
  
  
 
267
  
  
 
1,007
  

 Loss on early debt extinguishment
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
-
  
  
 
26
  
  
 
26
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
 
123
  
  
 
130
  
  
 
134
  
  
 
119
  
  
 
506
  

 Net income
  
 
121
  
  
 
127
  
  
 
132
  
  
 
116
  
  
 
496
  

 Net income per share - continuing operations:
  



  



  



  



  




 Basic
  
$
0.81
  
  
$
0.86
  
  
$
0.90
  
  
$
0.81
  
  
$
3.37
  

 Diluted
  
$
0.80
  
  
$
0.85
  
  
$
0.89
  
  
$
0.80
  
  
$
3.34
  

  58 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc.:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of
income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, such consolidated financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  As discussed in
Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company has changed its method of presenting comprehensive income in 2011 due to the adoption of FASB Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive
Income. The change in presentation has been applied retrospectively to all periods presented.  We have also audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP  Milwaukee,
Wisconsin  February 24, 2012 
  59 


Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  Not applicable.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures   


(a)
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
December 31, 2011.   


(b)
Management Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our
internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions.  Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control – Integrated Framework. Based on management’s assessment, our management believes that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial
reporting was effective based on those criteria.  Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued their
attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting. The report is included below under the heading “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.” 
 


(c)
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  There were no changes in internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   


(d)
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control
over financial reporting and has issued their report as set forth below. 
  60 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc.:  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control
- Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive
and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to
the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control
- Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  We have also audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated February 24, 2012
expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph related to the Company changing its method of presenting comprehensive income in 2011 due to the adoption of FASB Accounting Standards Update
No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which has been applied retrospectively to all periods presented.  /s/
Deloitte & Touche LLP  Milwaukee, Wisconsin  February 24, 2012 
  61 


Table of Contents


Item 9B.
Other Information  On February 22,
2012, our board of directors approved amendments to our amended and restated by-laws to remove the supermajority voting provisions contained in the by-laws. The by-laws now require the approval of a majority of the votes cast on a proposal to
remove a director of the company from office for cause, to fill the vacancy created by the removal of a director of the company from office for cause, and to alter, amend or repeal the by-laws by shareholder action. A copy of the amendments are
filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. Our amended and restated by-laws, which reflect the foregoing amendments, are filed as Exhibit 3.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. 
PART III   


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  Except for information concerning our executive officers included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption “Executive Officers of the Registrant,” which is incorporated by reference herein,
and the information regarding our Code of Conduct below, the information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Our Board of Directors,” “Nominees for Election,”
“Continuing Directors,” “Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee – Nominations of Directors,” “Shareholder Proposals for the 2012 Annual Meeting,” “Audit Committee – Membership and
Responsibilities,” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no
later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Our board of directors has adopted a Code of Conduct
that applies to all of our directors and employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, corporate controller and other persons performing similar functions. We have posted a copy of our Code of Conduct on the “About
Fiserv - Investors - Corporate Governance” section of our website at www.fiserv.com. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Conduct by posting such
information on the “About Fiserv - Investors - Corporate Governance” section of our website at www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report.
  


Item 11.
Executive Compensation  The information
required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” “Compensation
Committee Report,” “Compensation of Executive Officers,” “Summary Compensation Table,” “Grants of Plan-Based Awards in 2011,” “Outstanding Equity Awards at December 31, 2011,” “Option Exercises
and Stock Vested During 2011,” “Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control,” and “Compensation of Directors” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
The information set forth under the caption “Security Ownership by Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our definitive proxy statement
for our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, is incorporated by reference herein. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Equity Compensation Plan Information 
The table below sets forth information with respect to compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance as of
December 31, 2011.   










  
 
(a)
 
(b)
 
(c)

Plan Category
 
Number of shares to be issued uponexercise
ofoutstanding options
 

Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options
 
Number of
sharesremaining available forfuture issuance underequity compensationplans (excludingsecurities reflected incolumn (a))

 Equity compensation plans approved by our shareholders(1)
 
5,893,885(2)
 
$46.64
 
3,935,415(3)

 Equity compensation plans not approved by our shareholders
 
N/A
 
N/A
 
N/A

 Total
 
5,893,885
 
$46.64
 
3,935,415
  


(1)
Columns (a) and (c) of the table above do not include 1,170,039 unvested restricted stock units outstanding under the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan
or the Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan or 1,264,344 shares authorized for issuance under the Fiserv, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the
employee stock purchase plan is subject to an annual increase on the first day of each fiscal year equal to the lesser of (A) 1,000,000 shares, (B) 1% of the shares of our common stock outstanding on such date or (C) a lesser amount
determined by our board of directors.   


(2)
Consists of options outstanding under the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan and the Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan.
  


(3)
Reflects number of shares available for future issuance under the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan. No additional awards may be granted under the Fiserv, Inc.
Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan.   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions “Corporate Governance – Director Independence,” “Corporate
Governance – Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons,” and “Corporate Governance – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in our definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting
of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
The information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the caption “Audit Fees” in our
definitive proxy statement for our 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
  63 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
Financial Statement Schedules 
Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or accompanying notes.  Exhibits  The exhibits listed in the accompanying exhibit index are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  64 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on February 24, 2012.   






FISERV, INC.




By:  
 
/s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki


 
Jeffery W. Yabuki


 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on February 24, 2012.   






 Name
  
 Capacity




 /s/ Donald F. Dillon Donald F. Dillon
  
 Chairman of the Board




 /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki Jeffery W. Yabuki
  
 Director, President and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)




 /s/ Thomas J. Hirsch Thomas J. Hirsch
  
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)




 /s/ Daniel P. Kearney Daniel P. Kearney
  
 Director




 /s/ Peter J. Kight Peter J. Kight
  
 Director




 /s/ Denis J. O’Leary Denis J. O’Leary
  
 Director




 /s/ Glenn M. Renwick Glenn M. Renwick
  
 Director




 /s/ Kim M. Robak Kim M. Robak
  
 Director




 /s/ Doyle R. Simons Doyle R. Simons
  
 Director




 /s/ Thomas C. Wertheimer Thomas C. Wertheimer
  
 Director

  65 


Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 Exhibit
Number
 
 

Exhibit Description  

 3.1
 
Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)

 3.2
 
Amendments to Amended and Restated By-laws

 3.3
 
Amended and Restated By-laws

 4.1
 
Credit Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2010, among
Fiserv, Inc. and the financial institutions parties thereto (2)

 4.2
 
Loan Agreement, dated as of November 9, 2007, among Fiserv,
Inc. and the financial institutions parties thereto (3)

 4.3
 
Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2007, by and among
Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (4)

 4.4
 
Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 20,
2007, among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (5)

 4.5
 
Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 21,
2010, among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (6)

 4.6
 
Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 21,
2010, among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (6)

 4.7
 
Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 14, 2011,
among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (7)

 4.8
 
Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 14, 2011,
among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (7)

 
 
Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the
Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt that is not filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K.

 10.1
 
Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan, as
amended and restated (8)*

 10.2
 
Amendment to Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock
Plan (9)*

 10.3
 
Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan
(1)*

 
 
Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan Forms of
Award Agreements

 10.4
 
– Form of Amendment to Stock Option Agreement
(9)*

 10.5
 
– Form of Director Restricted Stock Agreement
(10)*

 10.6
 
– Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for
Outside Directors (10)*

 10.7
 
– Form of Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement
for Employee Directors (10)*

 10.8
 
– Form of Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement
for Senior Management (11)*

 
 
Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan Forms of Award
Agreements

 10.9
 
– Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Non-Employee
Director) (1)*

 10.10
 
– Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (Employee)
(1)*

 10.11
 
– Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Non-Employee
Director)*

 10.12
 
– Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
(Employee)*


Table of Contents






 Exhibit
Number
 
 

Exhibit Description  

 10.13
 
– Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement
(Non-Employee Director)*

 10.14
 
– Form of Stock Option Agreement
(Employee)*

 10.15
 
– Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Special
Equity Award 2008) (12)*

 10.16
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December
22, 2008, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (13)*

 10.17
 
Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement, dated February 26, 2009, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (14)*

 10.18
 
Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Employment
Agreement, dated December 30, 2009, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (15)*

 10.19
 
Amended and Restated Key Executive Employment and Severance
Agreement, dated December 22, 2008, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (13)*

 10.20
 
Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, dated
December 1, 2005, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (16)*

 10.21
 
Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, dated
December 1, 2005, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (16)*

 10.22
 
Form of Amended and Restated Key Executive Employment and
Severance Agreement, between Fiserv, Inc. and each of James Cox, Rahul Gupta, Mark Ernst, Thomas Hirsch, Charles Sprague, Steven Tait and Thomas Warsop (13)*

 10.23
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December
22, 2008, between Fiserv, Inc. and Thomas Warsop (13)*

 10.24
 
Employment Agreement, dated January 3, 2011, between
Fiserv, Inc. and Mark A. Ernst (17)*

 10.25
 
Employment Agreement, dated December 22, 2008, between
Fiserv, Inc. and Rahul Gupta*

 10.26
 
Employment Agreement, dated October 27, 2009, between
Fiserv, Inc. and Steven Tait (18)*

 10.27
 
Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated December 11,
2009, between Fiserv, Inc. and Steven Tait (18)*

 10.28
 
Retention Agreement, dated July 27, 2007, between CheckFree
Corporation and Michael P. Gianoni (18)*

 10.29
 
Amendment to Retention Agreement, dated August 2, 2007,
between CheckFree Corporation and Michael P. Gianoni (18)*

 10.30
 
Second Amendment to Retention Agreement, dated December 22,
2008, between CheckFree Corporation and Michael P. Gianoni (18)*

 10.31
 
Form of Non-Employee Director Indemnity Agreement
(12)

 10.32
 
Fiserv, Inc. Non-Employee Director Deferred Compensation
Plan (12)*

 10.33
 
Non-Employee Director Compensation Schedule
(18)*

 10.34
 
Agreement with Peter J. Kight, dated March 31, 2010
(19)*

 21.1
 
Subsidiaries of Fiserv, Inc.

 23.1
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm

 31.1
 
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002


Table of Contents






 Exhibit
Number
 
 

Exhibit Description  

 31.2
 
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 32.1
 
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

 101.INS**
 
XBRL Instance Document

 101.SCH**
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

 101.CAL**
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase
Document

 101.DEF**
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase
Document

 101.LAB**
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase
Document

 101.PRE**
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase
Document
  


*
This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
 


**
Filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the following documents formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Statements
of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (iii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   


(1)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 23, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(2)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 4, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(3)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 13, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(4)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-147309) filed on November 13, 2007, and
incorporated herein by reference.   


(5)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 20, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(6)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 21, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(7)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 14, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(8)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on February 25, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(9)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 24, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.



Table of Contents


(10)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on October 22, 2004, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(11)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 15, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(12)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(13)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(14)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(15)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(16)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 7, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(17)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(18)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.
  


(19)
Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 6, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.




