
10-K
1
a11-31130_110k.htm
10-K






Table of Contents
 

 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 

 
FORM 10-K

 




x 

ANNUAL   REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE   ACT OF 1934   

 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
 
OR
 




o 

TRANSITION   REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE   ACT OF 1934   

 
For the transition period from              to              
 
Commission  file number  001-09848
 

 

 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC.
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 




Delaware 

  

06-1153720  


(State or other jurisdiction of   incorporation or organization) 

  

(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)   

 
9510 Ormsby Station Road, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(502) 891-1000
(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
 
Not Applicable
(Former name, former address and former fiscal year, if changed since last report)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act
 




Title of each class 

  

Name of each exchange on which registered  


Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share 

  

NASDAQ Global Select Market   

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes o No x
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes o No x
 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No o
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. o
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.  See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):
 




Large accelerated filer o 

  

Accelerated filer x  


  

  

   


Non-accelerated filer o 

  

Smaller reporting company o  


(Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

  

    

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act) Yes o No x
 
As of June 30, 2011, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $226,169,053 based on the last sale price of a share of the common stock as of June 30, 2011 $27.40 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Market.
 
Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the issuer’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.
 




Class 

  

Outstanding at February 21, 2012  


Common Stock, $0.10 par value per share 

  

9,367,454 Shares   

 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant’s Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference in Part III to the extent described therein.
 

 

 





Table of Contents
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 



PART I 

  

4  


Item 1. 

Business 

4  


Item 1A.  

Risk Factors 

15  


Item 1B.  

Unresolved   Staff Comments 

24  


Item 2. 

Properties 

24  


Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

24  


Item 4. 

Mine Safety   Disclosures 

26  


  

  

   


PART II 

  

26  


Item 5. 

Market for   Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases   of Equity Securities 

26  


Item 6. 

Selected   Financial Data 

28  


Item 7. 

Management’s   Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

29  


Item 7A.  

Quantitative   and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 

45  


Item 8. 

Financial   Statements and Supplementary Data 

46  


Item 9. 

Changes in   and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

69  


Item 9A.  

Controls and   Procedures 

69  


Item 9B.  

Other Information 

69  


  

  

   


PART III 

  

70  


Item 10. 

Directors, Executive   Officers and Corporate Governance 

70  


Items 11,   12, 13 and 14. Executive Compensation; Security Ownership of Certain   Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters; Certain   Relationships and Related Transactions; and Director Independence; and   Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

71  


  

  

   


PART IV 

  

72  


Item 15. 

Exhibits   and Financial Statement Schedules 

72   
 
2





Table of Contents
 
In this report, the terms “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” mean Almost Family, Inc. and all subsidiaries included in our consolidated financial statements.
 
Special Caution Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, including, without limitation, statements containing the words “believes,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “expects,” “assumes,” “trends” and similar expressions, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based upon the Company’s current plans, expectations and projections about future events.  However, such statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors include, among others, the following:
·                  general economic and business conditions;
·                  demographic changes;
·                  changes in, or failure to comply with, existing governmental regulations;
·                  legislative proposals for healthcare reform;
·                  changes in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement levels;
·                  effects of competition in the markets in which the Company operates;
·                  liability and other claims asserted against the Company;
·                  potential audits and investigations by government and regulatory agencies, including the impact of any negative publicity or litigation;
·                  ability to attract and retain qualified personnel;
·                  availability and terms of capital;
·                  loss of significant contracts or reduction in revenues associated with major payer sources;
·                  ability of customers to pay for services;
·                  business disruption due to natural disasters or terrorist acts;
·                  ability to successfully integrate the operations of acquired businesses and achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies from the acquisition, in each case within expected time-frames or at all;
·                  significant deterioration in economic conditions and significant market volatility;
·                  effect on liquidity of the Company’s financing arrangements; and,
·                  changes in estimates and judgments associated with critical accounting policies and estimates.
 
For a detailed discussion of these and other factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements, please refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report.  The reader should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, the Company does not intend to publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect unforeseen or other events after the date of this report.  The Company has provided a detailed discussion of risk factors within this annual report on Form 10-K and various filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  The reader is encouraged to review these risk factors and filings.
 
3





Table of Contents
 
PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
Introduction
 
Almost Family, Inc. TM and subsidiaries (collectively “Almost Family”) is a leading, regionally focused provider of home health services. We have service locations in Florida, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Missouri, Alabama, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Indiana (in order of revenue significance).
 
We were incorporated in Delaware in 1985.  Through a predecessor merged into the Company in 1991, we have been providing health care services, primarily home health care, since 1976.  We reported approximately $340 million of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Unless otherwise indicated, the financial information included in Part I is for continuing operations.
 
Website Access to Our Reports
 
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website at www.almostfamily.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Information contained on Almost Family’s website is not part of this annual report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference in this document.
 
How We Are Currently Organized and Operate
 
The Company has two reportable segments, Visiting Nurse Services (VN or Visiting Nurse) and Personal Care Services (PC or Personal Care).  Reportable segments have been identified based upon how management has organized the business by services provided to customers and the criteria in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 280, Segment Reporting.
 
Our VN segment provides a comprehensive range of Medicare-certified home health nursing services to patients in need of recuperative care, typically following a period of hospitalization or care in another type of inpatient facility. Our services are often provided to patients in lieu of additional care in other settings, such as long term acute care hospitals, inpatient rehabilitation hospitals or skilled nursing facilities.  Our nurses, therapists, medical social workers and home health aides work closely with patients and their families to design and implement an individualized treatment response to a physician-prescribed plan of care.  Under the umbrella of our “Senior Advocacy” mission, we offer special clinically-based protocols customized to meet the needs of the increasingly medically complex, chronic and co-morbid patient populations we serve.  Examples include Frail Elderly Care Management, Optimum Balance, Cardiocare, Orthopedic and Urology.  VN Medicare revenues are generated on a per episode basis rather than a fee per visit or hourly basis.  Approximately 92% of the VN segment revenues are generated from the Medicare program while the balance is generated from Medicaid and private insurance programs.
 
Our PC segment provides services in patients’ homes primarily on an as-needed, hourly basis. These services include personal care, medication management, meal preparation, caregiver respite and homemaking. Our services are often provided to patients who would otherwise be admitted to skilled nursing facilities for long term custodial care.  PC revenues are generated on an hourly basis.  Approximately 81% of the PC segment revenues are generated from Medicaid and other government programs while the balance is generated from insurance programs and private pay patients.
 
Additional financial information about our segments can be found in Part II, Item 8, Note 11 of our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.
 
4





Table of Contents
 
Our View on Reimbursement and Diversification of Risk
 
Our Company is highly dependent on government reimbursement programs which pay for the majority of the services we provide to our patients.  Reimbursement under these programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, is subject to frequent changes as policy makers balance constituents’ needs for health care services within the constraints of the specific government’s fiscal budgets.  Medicare and Medicaid, respectively, are consuming a greater percentage of federal and states’ budgets, which is exacerbated in times of economic downturn. We believe that these financial issues are cyclical in nature rather than indicative of the long-term prospect for Medicare and Medicaid funding of health care services. Additionally, we believe our services offer the lowest cost alternative to institutional care and are a part of the solution to the federal government’s Medicare and states’ Medicaid financing problems.
 
We believe that an important key to our historical success and to our future success is our ability to adapt our operations to meet changes in reimbursement as they occur.  One important way in which we have achieved this adaptability in the past, and in which we plan to achieve it in the future, is to maintain some level of diversification in our business mix.
 
The execution of our business plan will place primary emphasis on the development of our home health operations.  As our business grows, we may evaluate opportunities for the provision of other health care services in patients’ homes that would be consistent with our Senior Advocacy mission.
 
Our Business Plan
 
Our future success depends on our ability to execute our business plan.  Over the next three to five years we will try to accomplish the following:
 
·                  Generate meaningful same store sales growth through the focused provision of high quality services and attending to the needs of our patients;
 
·                  Expand the significance of our home health services by selectively acquiring other quality providers, through the startup of new agencies and potentially by providing new services in patients’ homes consistent with our Senior Advocacy mission; and
 
·                  Expand our capital base through both earnings performance and by seeking additional capital investments in our Company.
 
Overview of Our Services
 
Visiting Nurse Services
 
Our VN segment services consist primarily of the provision of skilled in-home medical services to patients in need of short-term recuperative health care.  Our patients are referred to us by their physicians or upon discharge from a hospital or other type of in-patient facility.  We operate 47 Medicare-certified home health agencies with a total of 106 locations.  In the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 92% of our visiting nurse segment revenues were derived from the Medicare program.
 
Our Visiting Nurse segment provides a comprehensive range of Medicare-certified home health nursing services.  We receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies.  Our professional staff includes registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, physical, speech and occupational therapists, and medical social workers.  They fulfill medical treatment plans prescribed by physicians.  Our professional staff is subject to state licensing requirements in the particular states in which they practice.  Para-professional staff members (primarily home health aides) also provide care to these patients.
 
Our Visiting Nurse segment operations located in Florida normally experience higher admissions during the first quarter and lower admissions during the third quarter than in the other quarters due to seasonal population fluctuations.
 
5





Table of Contents
 
Personal Care Services
 
Our PC segment services are also provided in patients’ homes.  These services (generally provided by para-professional staff such as home health aides) are generally of a custodial rather than skilled nature.  PC revenues are generated on an hourly basis.  We currently operate 60 Personal Care locations.  In the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 81% of our personal care segment revenues were derived from the Medicaid program.
 
Operating Locations
 
Our operating locations were as follows at December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

Branches 

  

Branches 

   


Geographic Clusters 

  

Visiting   Nurse 

  

Personal   Care 

  

Visiting   Nurse 

  

Personal   Care 

   


Southeast 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Florida 

  

43 

  

7 

  

42 

  

7 

   


Alabama 

  

3 

  

— 

  

2 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Northeast 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Connecticut 

  

4 

  

7 

  

4 

  

7 

   


New Jersey 

  

4 

  

— 

  

4 

  

— 

   


Massachusetts 

  

4 

  

— 

  

3 

  

— 

   


Pennsylvania 

  

3 

  

3 

  

1 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Midwest 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Kentucky 

  

19 

  

4 

  

17 

  

4 

   


Ohio 

  

16 

  

39 

  

7 

  

4 

   


Missouri 

  

4 

  

— 

  

4 

  

— 

   


Illinois 

  

4 

  

— 

  

4 

  

— 

   


Indiana 

  

2 

  

— 

  

2 

  

— 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Total 

  

106 

  

60 

  

90 

  

22 

    
 
Compensation for Services
 
We are compensated for our services by (i) Medicare (Visiting Nurse only), (ii) Medicaid, (iii) other third party payors (e.g., insurance companies and other sources), and (iv) private pay (paid by personal funds).  The rates of reimbursement we receive from Medicare, Medicaid and other government programs are generally dictated by those programs.  In determining charge rates for goods and services provided to our other customers, we evaluate several factors including cost and market competition.  We sometimes negotiate contract rates with third party providers such as insurance companies.
 
Our reliance on government sponsored reimbursement programs makes us vulnerable to possible legislative and administrative regulation changes and budget cut-backs that could adversely affect the number of persons eligible for such programs, the amount of allowed reimbursements or other aspects of the program, any of which could materially affect us.  In addition, loss of certification or qualification under Medicare or Medicaid programs could materially affect our ability to effectively market our services.
 
The following table sets forth our revenues from operations derived from each major payor class during the indicated periods (by percentage of net revenues) for the years ended December 31:
 



Payor Group 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Medicare 

  

77.1 

% 

80.9 

% 

77.8 

%  


Medicaid and Other Government Programs 

  

18.1 

% 

14.5 

% 

16.6 

%  


Insurance and private pay  

  

4.8 

% 

4.6 

% 

5.6 

%   
 
6





Table of Contents
 
Medicare revenues are earned only in our VN segment, where they account for 92% of segment revenues.  Historical changes in payment sources are primarily a result of changes in the types of customers we attract.
 
See “Government Regulation” and “Risk Factors.”  We will monitor the effects of such items and may consider modifications to our expansion and development strategy when and if necessary.
 
Acquisitions
 
The Company has completed several acquisitions over the past three years and will continue to seek to acquire other quality providers of Medicare-certified home health and/or personal care services.
 
Factors which may affect future acquisition decisions include, but are not limited to, the quality and potential profitability of the business under consideration, and our profitability and ability to finance the transaction.
 
2011 Acquisitions
 
On August 5, 2011, we acquired the stock of Cambridge Home Health Care Holdings, Inc. (“Cambridge”).  Cambridge owned and operated 37 home health branches in Ohio and Pennsylvania.  The total purchase price for the stock was $32.8 million, all of which was funded with cash on hand.
 
On April 1, 2011, we acquired the assets of the Medicare-certified home health agency owned by Caregivers, Inc. in Ohio.  The total purchase price was $5.3 million.  The transaction was funded with cash on hand and a promissory note.
 
2010 Acquisition
 
On November 2, 2010, we acquired the assets of a small Medicare-certified home health agency owned by Fayette County Memorial Hospital located in Washington Court House, Ohio.  The transaction was funded with cash on hand and a promissory note.
 
2009 Acquisition
 
On June 1, 2009, we acquired the assets of the Medicare-certified home health agencies affiliated with Florida-based Central Florida Health Alliance (“CFHA”), a two-hospital health care company system with home health branches in Leesburg and The Villages for a purchase price of $5.2 million.
 
Competition, Marketing and Customers
 
The visiting nurse industry is highly competitive and fragmented.  Competitors include larger publicly held companies such as Amedisys, Inc. (NasdaqGS: AMED), Gentiva Health Services, Inc. (NasdaqGS: GTIV), and LHC Group, Inc. (NasdaqGS: LHCG), and numerous privately held multi-site home care companies, privately held single-site agencies and a significant number of hospital-based agencies. Competition for customers at the local market level is very fragmented and market specific.  Generally, each local market has its own competitive profile and no one competitor has significant market share across all our markets.  To the best of our knowledge, no individual provider has more than 7% share of the national market.
 
We believe the primary competitive factors are quality of service and reputation among referral sources.  We market our services through our site managers and marketing staff.  These individuals contact referral sources in their areas to market our services.  Major referral sources include: physicians, hospital discharge planners, Offices on Aging, social workers, and group living facilities.  We also utilize, to a lesser degree, consumer-direct sales, marketing and advertising programs designed to attract customers.
 
The personal care industry is likewise highly competitive and fragmented.  Competitors include home health providers, senior adult associations, and the private hiring of caregivers.  We market our services primarily through our site managers, and we compete by offering a high quality of care and by helping families identify and access solutions for care.  Major referral sources include case managers, physicians and hospital discharge planners.
 
7





Table of Contents
 
Government Regulation
 
Overview
 
The health care industry has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, extensive and dynamic change. In addition to economic forces and regulatory influences, continuing political debate is subjecting the health care industry to significant reform. Health care reforms have been enacted as discussed elsewhere in this document and proposals for additional changes are continuously formulated by departments of the Federal government, Congress, and state legislatures.
 
We expect legislators and government officials to continuously to review and assess alternative health care delivery systems and payment methodologies. Changes in the law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a dramatic effect on the definition of permissible or impermissible activities, the relative cost of doing business, and the methods and amounts of payments for medical care by both governmental and other payors.  We expect legislative changes intended to “balance the budget” and slow the annual rate of growth of Medicare and Medicaid to continue. Such future changes may further impact reimbursement for our services. There can be no assurance that future legislation or regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on our operations.
 
Medicare Rates
 
In 2000, Medicare implemented the Prospective Payment System (“PPS”) and began paying providers of home health care at fixed, predetermined rates for services and supplies bundled into 60-day episodes of home health care. An episode of home health care spans a 60-day period, starting with the first day a billable visit is furnished to a Medicare beneficiary and ending 60 days later. If a patient is still in treatment on the 60th day a new episode begins on the 61st day regardless of whether a billable visit is rendered on that day and ends 60 days later. The first day of a consecutive episode, therefore, is not necessarily the new episode’s first billable visit. A base episode payment is established by the Medicare Program through federal legislation for all episodes of care ended on or after the applicable time periods detailed below:
 



Period  

  

Base episode   Payment (1) 

   


January 1, 2009 through December 31,   2009 

  

$ 

2,272 

   


January 1, 2010 through December 31,   2010 

  

$ 

2,313 

   


January 1, 2011 through December 31,   2011 

  

$ 

2,192 

   


January 1, 2012 through December 31,   2012 

  

$ 

2,139 

    
 

(1)           The actual episode payment rates vary from those presented in the table, depending on the home health resource groups (“HHRGs”) to which Medicare patients are assigned and the per episode payment is typically reduced or increased by such factors as the patient’s clinical, functional, and services utilization characteristics.
 
Payment rates are subject to adjustment based on certain variables including, but not limited to: (a) an outlier payment if our patient’s care was unusually costly (capped at 10% of total reimbursement); (b) a low utilization payment adjustment (“LUPA”) if the number of visits was fewer than five; (c) a partial payment if our patient transferred to another provider or we received a patient from another provider before completing the episode; (d) a payment adjustment based upon the level of therapy services required (thresholds set at 6, 14 and 20 visits); (e) the number of episodes of care provided to a patient; (f) changes in the base episode payments established by the Medicare program; and (g) adjustments to the base episode payments for case mix and geographic wages.
 
Under PPS for Medicare reimbursement, we record net revenues based on a reimbursement rate that varies based on the severity of the patient’s condition, service needs and other related factors. We record net revenues as services are rendered to patients over the 60-day episode period. At the end of each month, a portion of our revenue is estimated for episodes in progress.
 
Medicare reimbursement on an episodic basis is subject to change if the actual number of therapy visits differs from the number anticipated at the start of care or if the patient is discharged but readmitted to another agency within the same 60-day episodic period.  Our revenue recognition under the Medicare reimbursement program is discussed in greater detail in Part II, Item 7 “Critical Accounting Policies” and Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”.
 
On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), and on March 30, 2010, the President signed the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010. These “acts” are collectively referred to below as the “Legislation.”  Many of the provisions of the Legislation do not take effect for an extended period of time and most will require the publication of implementing regulations and/or the issuance of programmatic guidelines.
 
8





Table of Contents
 
Among other things, the Legislation as it currently exists:
·                  Reduces Medicare reimbursement rates for home health care services we provide to our patients.  While implications on rates for 2013 appear clear, implications on rates are significantly less clear for years 2014 through 2017 in which the rebasing described below is to occur.
·                  Imposes new requirements on employer-sponsored health plans including expanding eligibility of employees and dependants, which may increase the cost of providing such benefits.
·                  Includes enhanced program integrity provisions, provider billing limitations, provider overpayment notification requirements and overpayment recoupment capabilities for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).
·                  Includes a number of other provisions that could reasonably be expected to have an impact on our business.
 
Recently a number of efforts have been made by certain members of Congress to repeal or otherwise slow implementation of the Legislation.  Also, there have been a number of court cases filed challenging the legality of the Legislation on constitutional and other grounds.  In our view it is reasonable to expect these activities to continue to occur over the next few years.  Additionally, very often, sweeping new legislation is followed by subsequent legislation to address previously unanticipated consequences, or to further define provisions that were too vague to implement based on the language of the original legislation.
 
As a result of the broad scope of the Legislation, the significant changes it will effect in the healthcare industry and the complexity of the technical issues it addresses, we are unable to predict, at this time, all the ramifications the Legislation and the implementing regulations may have on our business as a health care provider or a sponsor of an employee health insurance benefit plan.  The Legislation and implementing regulations and programmatic guidelines could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition in ways not currently anticipated by us.
 
Additionally, we may be unable to take actions to mitigate any or all of the negative implications of the Legislation and implementing regulations or programmatic guidelines.
 
Some of the more significant changes to home health reimbursement included in the Legislation, as it currently exists, are as follows:
·                  A “Market Basket Update” reduction of 1% per year in each of 2011, 2012, and 2013 which has and will reduce our annual cost inflation updates.  CMS market basket updates are to reflect price inflation experienced by health care providers.
·                  A 3% “Rural Rate Add-on” effective April 1, 2010 through December 2015.  Approximately 9% of our Medicare patients live in rural areas.
·                  A 10% “Outlier Cap” which limits the amount of “outlier” reimbursement a provider may receive to 10% of total reimbursement.  Less than 1% of our revenue would be considered “outlier” reimbursement.  Home health agencies receive additional or “outlier” payments for 60-day home health episodes of care which carry unusually high costs.
·                  A “Rebasing” of rates phased in over four years from 2014 through 2017.  These provisions require CMS to recalculate or “rebase” home health reimbursement to more closely align with the costs of providing care.  Any reduction in reimbursement rates resulting from “rebasing” cannot exceed 3.5% per year in each of the four phase-in years.  There are certain requirements for the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (“MedPac”) and the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary to assess and report on the impact of rebasing on access and quality of care.  Home health reimbursement rates have not been “rebased” since the inception of the prospective payment system in October 1, 2000.  Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the impact this “rebasing” work may have when it is completed.
·                  Beginning in 2015 and through 2019, an annual “Productivity” adjustment, estimated to result in a 1% per year payment reduction.
 
Broader policy changes are contained in the Health Care Reform Legislation, that seek to expand access to affordable health insurance.  The legislative changes will and already have affected provider operations in addition to payments.  For example, the Legislation required that physicians ordering home health services document a face-to-face encounter with the patient.  The Legislation also includes a number of pilot programs, demonstration 
 
9





Table of Contents
 
projects and studies, the results of which could lead to alternative health care delivery and payment systems.  The President is charged with appointing a 15-member Independent Medicare Advisory Board (“IMAB”) empowered to recommend changes to the President and Congress to reduce the growth of Medicare spending.  With limited exceptions, Congress is required to implement the IMAB’s proposals to achieve savings.  An exception exists if Congress adopts alternative proposals resulting in an equivalent level of savings.
 
Independent of the Legislation, CMS when establishing Medicare rates for 2010 included a “market basket update” rate increase of 2.0% plus a 2.5% “outlier policy” adjustment minus a 2.75% “case mix creep” adjustment.
 
MedPac annually issues a Report to the Congress on Medicare Payment Policy which includes specific recommendations for payment policy changes for all categories of providers including home health.  Historically, the Congress and/or CMS have sometimes implemented MedPac’s recommendations and sometimes they have not.  In its latest published recommendations dated March 2011, MedPac recommended: 1) elimination of the 2012 “market basket” or inflationary update, 2) acceleration of rebasing to 2013, as opposed to the 2014-2017 phase in currently legislated, 3) policy changes intended to strengthen program integrity and payment accuracy and 4) policy changes that establish beneficiary incentives with regard to service utilization.  To date, the Congress has not acted on any of MedPac’s March 2011 recommendations.  MedPac’s next set of recommendations are expected to be issued in March of 2012.  We are unable to predict what those recommendations may be.  We are unable to predict whether, or in what form, the Congress or CMS might implement MedPac’s recommendations.
 
In November 2010, CMS released final revisions to Medicare home health reimbursement rates and regulations for 2011.  Among other changes, the rules include:
·                  A “market basket update” rate increase of 2.4%, less 1.0% from the Legislation, minus the 2.5% “outlier provision”, less a 3.79% “case mix creep” adjustment (for an effective rate cut of approximately 5.2%).
·                  Regulations implementing a requirement included in the Legislation for a face-to-face encounter between the patient and the physician ordering home health services.
·                  Regulations intended to address concerns over therapy utilization by requiring additional documentation justifying therapy visits based on specific goals, accepted standards of care, and objective and quantifiable measures of patients’ progress towards those goals.
·                  Revisions to its previously issued “36 Month Rule” which limits the sale or transfer of the Medicare Provider Agreement for any Medicare-certified home health agency that has been in existence for less than 36 months or that has undergone a change of ownership in the last 36 months.  This “36 Month Rule” limitation may reduce the number of home health agencies that otherwise would have been available for acquisition and may limit our ability to successfully pursue our acquisition strategy.
 
The final rules became effective January 1, 2011.  However, CMS delayed enforcement of face-to-face encounter requirements until April 1, 2011, which was also the effective date for therapy reassessment requirements.  Both requirements are discussed further below.
 
PPACA mandates that prior to certifying a patient’s eligibility for the home health benefit, the certifying physician must document that he or she, or an allowed non-physician practitioner (“NPP”) has had a face-to-face encounter with the patient.  Under the face-to-face encounter rules, the face-to-face encounter with the patient must occur during a timeframe starting 90 days prior to the home health start of care and ending 30 days after the start of care. Currently, CMS requires the encounter to be composed by the physician in a separate document that may not be combined with the patient’s plan of care which is also certified and signed by the ordering physician.
 
Under the therapy assessment and reassessment rules, a professional qualified therapist assessment must take place at least once every 30 days during a therapy patient’s course of treatment.  Further and subject to certain exceptions, those patients needing 13 or 19 therapy visits require a qualified therapist to perform the therapy services required, assess the patient, and measure and document effectiveness of the therapy both on the 13th visit and the 19th visit, for all therapy disciplines caring for the patient.
 
As a condition of payment, documentation regarding both these new rules must be maintained in the home health agency’s patient medical records. These and other regulations driven by implementing the provisions of the PPACA may similarly increase our costs, decrease our revenues, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct our business. Refer to the results of operations for the impact of these items on revenue, operating and net income for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
10





Table of Contents
 
On October 31, 2011, CMS released the final Medicare home health reimbursement rates and regulations for 2012.  Among other changes, the rule includes:
·                  A “market basket update” rate increase of 1.4%, less a 3.79% “case mix creep” adjustment (for an effective rate cut of approximately 2.31%).
·                  Removal of two hypertension codes from the case-mix system, lowering high therapy episodes payments and recalibrating case-mix weights, all of which are intended to be budget neutral nationwide, however, reimbursement may increase or decrease for individual providers based on their 2012 patient mix.
·                  Added clarifications regarding face-to-face regulations to allow physicians who attend to a home health patient in an acute or post-acute setting to inform the certifying physician of their encounters with the patient in order to satisfy the face-to-face encounter requirement.
·                  A negative case-mix coding adjustment to the national standardized 60-day episode payment rates for 2013 of 1.32%.
We currently estimate that the 2012 final rule may reasonably be expected to reduce our Medicare reimbursement for 2012 between 4.5% and 5.0% as compared to 2011 assuming no changes in the mix of patients we serve.
 
On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act (BCA) was signed into law creating the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction.  This “Super Committee” was tasked with finding $1.5 trillion in total Federal spending reductions over 10 years.  According to the BCA, if the Super Committee’s bill achieved at least $1.5 trillion and was enacted by Congress, the debt ceiling would be raised by $1.5 trillion.  Nevertheless, if the Super Committee failed to produce a bill or its bill was not enacted, automatic, across-the-board budget cuts (“sequestration”) of $1.2 trillion starting in 2013 would be triggered.  The Super Committee indeed failed to produce a bill, and as a result, absent any legislative action to prevent it, all Medicare providers, including the Company, will be subject to rate reductions of up to 2% on January 2, 2013.
 
There has been a great deal of legislative and regulatory change enacted or proposed in the recent years and months and not all implementing regulations have been published.  Further, CMS has increased its audit process.  Additionally, as also indicated above it is reasonable to expect more changes.  Government might take or consider taking further actions because the number of Medicare beneficiaries and their related expenditures are growing at a faster rate than the government’s revenue.  Medicare is consuming a greater percentage of the federal budget.  This issue is exacerbated when revenues slow in a down economy.  We believe that these financial issues are cyclical in nature rather than indicative of the long-term prospect for Medicare funding of health care services.  Additionally, we believe our services offer the lowest cost alternative to institutional care and are a part of the solution to the federal government’s budget problems.  Management is currently working to evaluate the implications of these changes and to develop appropriate courses of action for the Company.
 
Given the broad and far reaching implications of all these changes, the incomplete nature of these changes, the pace at which the changes are taking place and the prospects for future changes to be made, we cannot predict the ultimate impact, which may be material and adverse, that health care reform efforts and resulting Medicare reimbursement rates will have on our liquidity, our results of operations, the realizability of the carrying amounts of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or our financial condition.  Further, we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such material adverse effect, if it were to occur, might have on our ability to continue to comply with the financial covenants of our revolving credit facility and our ability to continue to access debt capital through that facility.
 
Refer to the Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” below Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information.
 
Medicaid Reimbursement
 
As shown in “Compensation for Services” above, approximately 18% of our 2011 consolidated net service revenues were derived from state Medicaid and Other Government Programs, many of which currently face significant budget issues.  The financial condition of the Medicaid programs in each of the states in which we operate is cyclical and many states may be expected from time to time to take actions or evaluate taking actions to control the rate of growth of Medicaid expenditures.  Among these actions are the following:
·              redefining eligibility standards for Medicaid coverage,
·              redefining coverage criteria for home and community based care services,
·              slowing payments to providers by increasing the minimum time in which payments are made,
·              limiting reimbursement rate increases or implementing rate cuts,
·              increased utilization of self-directed care alternatives,
·              shifting beneficiaries from traditional coverage to Medicaid managed care providers, and
·              changing regulations under which providers must operate.
 
Governments might take or consider taking further actions because the number of Medicaid beneficiaries and their related expenditures are growing at a faster rate than the governments’ revenue.  Medicaid is consuming a greater percentage of states’ budgets.  This issue is exacerbated when revenues slow in a down economy.  We believe that these financial issues are cyclical in nature rather than indicative of the long-term prospect for Medicaid funding of 
 
11





Table of Contents
 
health care services.  Additionally, we believe our services offer the lowest cost alternative to institutional care and are a part of the solution to the states’ Medicaid financing problems.
 
Permits and Licensure
 
Many states require companies providing certain health care services to be licensed as home health agencies. In addition, certain health care practitioners employed by us require state licensure and/or registration and must comply with laws and regulations governing standards of practice. The failure to obtain, renew or maintain any of the required regulatory approvals or licenses could adversely affect our business. We believe we are currently licensed appropriately where required by the laws of the states in which we operate.  There can be no assurance that either the states or the federal government will not impose additional regulations upon our activities which might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.
 
Certificates of Need
 
Certain states require companies providing health care services to obtain a certificate of need issued by a state health-planning agency.  Where required by law, we have obtained certificates of need from those states. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any certificates of need which may be required in the future if we expand the scope of our services or if state laws change to impose additional certificate of need requirements, and any attempt to obtain additional certificates of need will cause us to incur certain expenses.
 
Medicare and Medicaid Participation
 
Effective March 25, 2011, CMS implemented new enrollment regulations which were a response to aspects of the Legislation designed to enhance enrollment procedures to protect against fraud.  The regulations authorize the establishment of risk categories with risk level dictating the enrollment screening activities, i.e., more rigorous screening as the perceived risk increases.  For Medicare, there are three categories of providers i.e., “limited,” “moderate,” or “high” risk, and CMS has placed newly enrolling home health agencies in the “high risk” category, with existing enrolled home health agencies categorized as “moderate risk.”  In addition to the screening procedures for low risk provider, providers in the moderate risk category will be subject to unannounced site visits. For high risk providers, any individual with a 5% or more ownership interest will be subject to fingerprint-based criminal history record checks.  Additionally, the new regulations authorize Medicare and state Medicaid agencies to impose temporary enrollment moratoria for a particular type of provider if determined to be necessary to combat fraud, waste, or abuse.  To the extent that home health agencies are subject to a moratorium, any newly enrolling home health agency, including any change of ownership subject to the 36 month rule, and any expansion to add a branch would be affected by the moratorium.
 
Other Regulations
 
A series of laws and regulations dating back to the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (“OBRA 1987”) and through the Legislation have been enacted and apply to us. Changes in applicable laws and regulations have occurred from time to time since OBRA 1987 including reimbursement reductions and changes to payment rules.  Changes are also expected to occur continuously for the foreseeable future.
 
As a provider of services under Medicare and Medicaid programs, we are subject to the Medicare and Medicaid anti-kickback statute and other “fraud and abuse laws.” The anti-kickback statute prohibits any bribe, kickback, rebate or remuneration of any kind in return for, or as an inducement for, the referral of Medicare or Medicaid patients. We may also be affected by the Federal physician self-referral prohibition, known as the “Stark” law, which, with certain exceptions, prohibits physicians from referring patients to entities in which they have a financial interest or from which they receive financial benefit.  Penalties for violations of the federal Stark law include payment sanctions, civil monetary penalties, and/or program exclusion.  Many states in which we operate have adopted similar self-referral laws, as well as laws that prohibit certain direct or indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between health care providers, if such arrangements are designed to induce or to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider.
 
Health care is an area of extensive and dynamic regulatory change. Changes in laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations can have a dramatic effect on our permissible activities, the relative 
 
12





Table of Contents
 
costs associated with our doing business, and the amount and availability of reimbursement we receive from government and third-party payors. Furthermore, we will be required to comply with applicable regulations in each new state in which we desire to provide services.
 
As a result of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and other legislative and administrative initiatives, Federal and state enforcement efforts against the health care industry have increased dramatically, subjecting all health care providers to increased risk of scrutiny and increased compliance costs.
 
We are subject to routine and periodic surveys, audits and investigations by various governmental agencies.  In addition to surveys to determine compliance with the conditions of participation, CMS has engaged a number of contractors (including Fiscal Intermediaries, Recovery Audit Contractors, Program Safeguard Contractors, Zone Program Integrity Contractors, and Medicaid Integrity Contributors) to conduct audits to evaluate billing practices and identify overpayments.  In addition to audits by CMS contractors, individual states are implementing similar programs such as using Medicaid Recovery Audit Contractors.  We believe that we are in material compliance with applicable laws. However, we are unable to predict what additional government regulations, if any, affecting our business may be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws and regulations might be interpreted or whether we will be able to comply with such laws and regulations either in the markets in which we presently conduct, or wish to commence, business.
 
Insurance Programs and Costs
 
We bear significant insurance risk under our large-deductible workers’ compensation insurance program and our self-insured employee health program.  Under the workers’ compensation insurance program, we bear risk up to $400,000 per incident, after which stop-loss coverage is maintained.  We purchase stop-loss insurance for the employee health plan that places a specific limit, generally $100,000, on our exposure for any individual covered life.
 
Malpractice and general patient liability claims for incidents which may give rise to litigation have been asserted against us by various claimants.  The claims are in various stages of processing and some may ultimately be brought to trial.  We are aware of incidents that have occurred through December 31, 2011, that may result in the assertion of additional claims.  We currently carry professional and general liability insurance coverage (on a claims made basis) for this exposure with no deductible.
 
We also carry D&O coverage for potential claims against our directors and officers, including securities actions, with deductibles ranging from $100,000 to $250,000 per claim.
 
Total premiums, excluding estimated exposure to claims and deductibles, for all our non-health insurance programs were approximately $1,851,000 for the contract year ended March 31, 2011.  On April 1, 2011, we completed our renewal for the contract year ending March 31, 2012 with total estimated premiums of $2,033,000.
 
We record estimated liabilities for our insurance programs based on information provided by the third-party plan administrators, historical claims experience, the life cycle of claims, expected costs of claims incurred but not paid, and expected costs to settle unpaid claims.  We monitor our estimated insurance-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries on a monthly basis and as required by Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries, have recorded amounts due under insurance policies in other current assets, while recording the estimated carrier liability in other current liabilities in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  As facts change, it may become necessary to make adjustments that could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.
 
We believe that our present insurance coverage is adequate.  As part of our on-going risk management and cost control efforts, we continually seek alternatives that might provide a different balance of cost and risk, including potentially accepting additional self-insurance risk in lieu of higher premium costs.
 
13





Table of Contents
 
Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
See Part III, Item 10 of this Form 10-K for information about the Company’s executive officers.
 
Employees and Labor Relations
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 9,000 employees.  None of our employees are represented by a labor organization.  We believe our relationship with our employees is satisfactory.
 
14





Table of Contents
 
ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS
 
Described below and elsewhere in this report are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.  Investing in our common stock involves a degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risks, as well as other information in this filing and the incorporated documents before investing in our common stock.
 
Risks Related to Our Industry
 
Complying with health care reform legislation and the implementing regulations and programmatic guidelines could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition in ways not currently anticipated by us.
 
The US Congress has been pursuing a comprehensive reform of the US health care system since early 2009.  Refer to Part I, Item 1, “Government Regulation” for further discussion.  Very often, sweeping new legislation is followed by subsequent legislation to address previously unanticipated consequences, or to further define provisions that were too vague to implement based on the language of the original legislation and by legal actions to challenge its constitutionality.  In our view it is reasonable to expect this to occur over the next few years.  As a result of the broad scope of the Legislation, the significant changes it will effect in the healthcare industry and society generally, and the complexity of the technical issues it addresses, we are unable to predict, at this time, all the ramifications the Legislation and the implementing regulations may have on our business as a health care provider or a sponsor of an employee health insurance benefit plan.  The Legislation and implementing regulations and programmatic guidelines could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition in ways not currently anticipated by us.
 
Additionally, we may be unable to take actions to mitigate any or all of the negative implications of the Legislation and implementing regulations or programmatic guidelines which may result in unfavorable earnings, losses, or impairment charges.
 
The Legislation may be modified through subsequent legislative action or judicial challenge.  We can provide you with no assurance that the ultimate outcome of the Legislation, health care reform efforts and/or the federal budget and resulting Medicare reimbursement rates will not have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, our results of operation, the realizability of the carrying amounts of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or our financial condition.  Further, we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such material adverse effect, if it were to occur, might have on our ability to continue to comply with the financial covenants of our revolving credit facility and our ability to continue to access debt capital through that facility.
 
Current economic conditions including the status of Federal and State budgets and the related implications on capital markets may have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and financial condition, as well as our ability to access credit and capital.
 
As widely reported, global capital and credit markets continue to recover from extreme disruptions and turmoil in 2008 and 2009, including the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. The downturn resulted in severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability as compared to periods prior to 2008. Although there are currently signs of economic recovery, there can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in credit and financial markets and confidence in economic conditions or that the apparent current economic recovery can be sustained.  While the ultimate outcome of these events and/or recovery cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on the Company.  Economic conditions (and stimulus efforts by the Federal government) have caused significant Federal and state budget deficits.  Efforts to reduce spending at the Federal and/or state levels may result in reductions in reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid and other third-party payors which may in turn result in decreased revenue growth and a decrease in our profitability. Our contractors and suppliers may also be negatively impacted by these conditions and our ability to provide patient care at a lower cost may diminish and reduce our profitability. The continuing disruption in the credit and capital markets may restrict our access to capital. As a result, our ability to incur additional indebtedness to fund operations and acquisitions may be constrained. If the economic conditions deteriorate or do not continue to improve, our results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.
 
15





Table of Contents
 
Our profitability depends principally on the level of government-mandated payment rates. Reductions in rates, or rate increases that do not cover cost increases, may adversely affect our business.
 
We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare and Medicaid for our services based on the level of care that we provide patients. Consequently, our profitability largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing services. Although current Medicare legislation provides for an annual adjustment of the various payment rates based on the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, these Medicare payment rate increases may be less than actual inflation or could be eliminated or reduced in any given year.  Consequently, if our cost of providing services, which consists primarily of labor costs, is greater than the respective Medicare or Medicaid payment rate, our profitability would be negatively impacted.
 
“Rebasing” of Medicare Reimbursement rates for home health care could adversely affect our business.
 
As previously disclosed, the Legislation requires a rebasing of home health reimbursement rates phased in over four years from 2014 through 2017.  These provisions require CMS to recalculate or “rebase” home health reimbursement to more closely align with the costs of providing care.  Any reduction in reimbursement rates resulting from rebasing cannot exceed 3.5% per year in each of the four phase-in years.  There are certain requirements for MedPac and the HHS Secretary to assess and report on the impact of rebasing on access and quality of care.  Home health reimbursement rates have not been rebased since the inception of the prospective payment system in October 1, 2000.  Additionally, the Congress or CMS may take actions that could change the timing of implementation of rebasing.  Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty the impact rebasing of home health reimbursement rates may have when it is completed.
 
If any of our agencies fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program, which would adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability.
 
Each of our home care agencies must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program. If any of our agencies fail to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency then fails to institute a plan of correction to correct the deficiency within the correction period provided by the state surveyor, that agency could be terminated from the Medicare program.  Additionally, failure to comply with the conditions of participation related to enrollment could result in a deactivation or revocation of billing privileges.  To the extent that billing privileges are revoked there is a mandated one to three-year bar to re-enrollment.  The failure to pass a site verification visit, for example, could result in a revocation of billing privileges with a mandated two-year bar to re-enrollment.  Although the revocation would only immediately affect the particular enrollment subject to the revocation, CMS has indicated that following a revocation it will review the enrollment files for providers under common ownership or control to determine if a similar sanction is warranted for any of the other related providers. Any termination of one or more of our home care agencies from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenue and profitability.
 
Any changes to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results.
 
The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, regulate how we do business, the services we offer, and our interactions with patients and the public. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws and regulations, or their interpretations, or the enactment of new laws or regulations could reduce our profitability by:
·                  increasing our liability;
·                  increasing our administrative and other costs;
·                  increasing or decreasing mandated services;
·                  forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers; or
·                  requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems.
 
Violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in interpretations of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs, the suspension or revocation of our licenses, or claims for damages. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed on us, we might suffer a substantial reduction in profitability.
 
We have been and could become the subject of governmental investigations, claims and litigation.
 
The Company is currently the subject of a number of civil investigations, and qui tam or “whistleblower” suits relating to its Medicare-reimbursed operations.  For further discussion of investigations and lawsuits, please refer to Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”.  Many of these appear to be similar to investigations and claims relating to other providers of home health services.  We may become, or unknown to us may already be, the subject of investigations, qui tams, or lawsuits that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and liquidity.
 
16





Table of Contents
 
Governmental agencies and their agents, such as the Medicare Administrative Contractors (“MACs”), fiscal intermediaries and carriers, as well as the OIG, CMS and state Medicaid programs, conduct audits of our health care operations.  Depending on the nature of the conduct found in such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operation and liquidity.
 
In December 2011, home health providers, including the Company, began receiving pre-pay Additional Development Requests (“ADRs”) from the Palmetto Government Benefits Administration (“PGBA”) as a result of additional CMS funding allocations to the MACs to conduct pre-payment reviews.  The ADRs appear to be both general and focused in nature.  The PGBA acts as one of our four fiscal intermediaries, but processes the majority of our claims.  We have received ADRs from PGBA and expect other fiscal intermediaries to also issue ADRs in the future.  If such ADRs result in reimbursement adjustments, we may suffer reduced profitability.
 
If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing patient referral sources or to establish new referral sources, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected.
 
Our success depends significantly on referrals from physicians, hospitals, case managers and other patient referral sources in the communities that our home care agencies serve, as well as on our ability to maintain good relationships with these referral sources. Our referral sources are not contractually obligated to refer home care patients to us and may refer their patients to other providers. Our growth and profitability depend on our ability to establish and maintain close working relationships with these patient referral sources and to increase awareness and acceptance of the benefits of home care by our referral sources and their patients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our existing referral source relationships or that we will be able to develop and maintain new relationships in existing or new markets. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably.
 
We are subject to federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other healthcare providers, including potential or current referral sources.
 
We are required to comply with federal and state laws, generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” that prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between healthcare providers that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular provider for medical services.  We are also required to comply with the “Stark” law, which places restrictions on physicians who refer patients to entities in which they have a financial interest or from which they receive financial benefit.  In addition to the federal anti-kickback and Stark laws, some of the states in which we operate have enacted laws prohibiting certain business relationships between physicians and other providers of healthcare services. We currently have contractual relationships with certain physicians who provide consulting services to our Company. Many of these physicians are current or potential referral sources. Although we believe our physician consultant arrangements currently comply with state and federal anti-kickback and Stark laws, we cannot assure you that courts or regulatory agencies will not interpret these laws in ways that will implicate our physician consultant arrangements. Violations of anti-kickback and similar laws could lead to fines or sanctions, including under the False Claims Act, that may have a material adverse effect on our operations.
 
We may be subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims.
 
The services we offer involve an inherent risk of professional liability and related substantial damage awards. On any given day, we have several hundred nurses and therapists and other direct care personnel driving to and from patients’ homes where they deliver medical and other care. Due to the nature of our business, we and the caregivers who provide services on our behalf may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These caregivers could be considered our agents, and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We maintain malpractice and various other liability insurance or re-insurance policies and are responsible for deductibles and, as applicable, amounts in excess of the limits of our coverage. Although we contract with highly rated carriers, we cannot guarantee collection of amounts expected to be recovered under various insurance or reinsurance policies.
 
17





Table of Contents
 
Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems.
 
Our business is characterized by delays in reimbursement from the time we provide services to the time we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. Data submission requirements change from time to time for payors or payments to us may be delayed pending additional data or documentation requests by the fiscal intermediary, or our ability to effectively respond to such requirements may delay our payment cycle.  If we have information system problems or issues that arise with Medicare or Medicaid, we may encounter delays in our payment cycle. Such a timing delay may cause working capital shortages.  Working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our results of operations and liquidity.  System problems, Medicare or Medicaid issues or industry trends may extend our collection period, adversely impact our working capital.  Our working capital management procedures may not successfully negate this risk.  There are often timing delays when attempting to collect funds from Medicaid programs. Delays in receiving reimbursement or payments from these programs may adversely impact our working capital.
 
Our industry is highly competitive.
 
Our home health care agencies compete with local and regional home health care companies, hospitals, nursing homes, and other businesses that provide home nursing services, some of which are large established companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Our primary competition comes from local companies in each of our markets, and these privately-owned or hospital-owned health care providers vary by region and market. We compete based on the availability of personnel; the quality, expertise, and value of our services; and in select instances, on the price of our services. Increased competition in the future from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.
 
Some of our existing and potential new competitors may enjoy greater name recognition and greater financial, technical, and marketing resources than we do. This may permit our competitors to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of services. These competitors may undertake more far-reaching and effective marketing campaigns and may offer more attractive opportunities to existing and potential employees and services to referral sources.
 
We expect our competitors to develop new strategic relationships with providers, referral sources, and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of strategic relationships by our competitors, could cause a decline in revenue or loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. Additionally, we compete with a number of non-profit organizations that can finance acquisitions and capital expenditures on a tax-exempt basis or receive charitable contributions that are unavailable to us.
 
We expect that industry forces will continue to have an impact on our business and that of our competitors. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant changes driven by efforts to reduce costs, and we expect these cost containment measures to continue in the future. Frequent regulatory changes in our industry, including reductions in reimbursement rates and changes in services covered, have increased competition among home health care providers. If we are unable to react competitively to new developments, our operating results may suffer.
 
A shortage of qualified registered nursing staff, physical therapists, occupational therapists and other caregivers could adversely affect our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel and could increase operating costs.
 
We rely significantly on our ability to attract and retain caregivers who possess the skills, experience, and licenses necessary to meet the requirements of our patients.  We compete for personnel with other providers of health care services.  Our ability to attract and retain caregivers depends on several factors, including our ability to provide these caregivers with attractive assignments and competitive benefits and salaries.  We cannot assure you that we will succeed in any of these areas.  In addition, there are occasional shortages of qualified healthcare personnel in some of the markets in which we operate.  As a result, we may face higher costs of attracting caregivers and
 
18





Table of Contents
 
providing them with attractive benefit packages than we originally anticipated and, if that occurs, our profitability could decline.  Finally, although this is currently not a significant factor in our existing markets, if we expand our operations into geographic areas where healthcare providers have historically unionized, we cannot assure you that the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements will not have a negative effect on our ability to timely and successfully recruit qualified personnel.  Generally, if we are unable to attract and retain caregivers, the quality of our services may decline, and we could lose patients and referral sources.
 
Risks Related to Our Business
 
We depend on government sponsored reimbursement programs with Medicare accounting for the largest portion of our revenues.
 
For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we received 77%, 81% and 78%, respectively, of our revenue from Medicare.  Reductions in Medicare reimbursement could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Such reductions in payments to us could be caused by:
·                  administrative or legislative changes to the base episode rate;
·                  the elimination or reduction of annual rate increases based on medical inflation;
·                  the imposition by Medicare of co-payments or other mechanisms shifting responsibility for a portion of payment to beneficiaries;
·                  adjustments to the relative components of the wage index;
·                  changes to our case mix or therapy thresholds; or
·                  other adverse changes to the way we are paid for delivering our services.
 
Our non-Medicare revenues and profitability also are affected by the continuing efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by lowering reimbursement rates, narrowing the scope of covered services, increasing case management review of services, and negotiating reduced contract pricing.  Any changes in reimbursement levels from these third-party payor sources and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability.  We can provide no assurance that we will continue to maintain the current payor or revenue mix.
 
Our reliance on government sponsored reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid makes us vulnerable to possible legislative and administrative regulations and budget cut-backs that could adversely affect the number of persons eligible for such programs, the amount of allowed reimbursements or other aspects of the programs, any of which could materially affect us.  In addition, loss of certification or qualification under Medicare or Medicaid programs could materially affect our ability to effectively market our services.
 
We have a significant dependence on state Medicaid reimbursement programs.
 
Approximately 18%, 15% and 17% of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 revenues, respectively, were derived from state Medicaid and other government programs, many of which currently face significant budget issues. Further, the acquisitions completed by us in 2011 increased our dependence on Medicaid reimbursement. Specifically, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 8.3%, 6.1% and 2.8% of our revenues were generated from Medicaid reimbursement programs in the states of Ohio, Connecticut and Kentucky, respectively. Such amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010, were approximately 4.1%, 6.0% and 3.1%, respectively and 4.4%, 7.5% and 3.1%, respectively for the year ended December 31, 2009.
 
The financial condition of the Medicaid programs in each of the states in which we operate is cyclical and many may be expected from time to time to take actions or evaluate taking actions to control the rate of growth of Medicaid expenditures. Among these actions are the following:
·  redefining eligibility standards for Medicaid coverage,
·  redefining coverage criteria for home and community based care services,
·  slowing payments to providers by increasing the minimum time in which payments are made,
·  limiting reimbursement rate increases,
·  increased utilization of self-directed care alternatives,
·  shifting beneficiaries from traditional coverage to Medicaid managed care providers, and
·  changing regulations under which providers must operate.
 
19





Table of Contents
 
States may be expected to address these issues because the number of Medicaid beneficiaries and their related expenditures are growing at a faster rate than the government’s revenue. Medicaid is consuming a greater percentage of states’ budgets.  This issue is exacerbated when revenues slow in a slowing economy. It is possible that the actions taken by the state Medicaid programs in the future could have a significant unfavorable impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
 
Migration of our Medicare beneficiary patients to Medicare managed care providers could negatively impact our operating results.
 
Historically, we have generated a substantial portion of our revenue from the Medicare fee-for-service market.  The Congress continues to allocate significant additional funds and other incentives to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries. If these increased funding levels have the intended result, the size of the potential Medicare fee-for-service market could decline, thereby reducing the size of our potential patient population, which could cause our operating results to suffer.
 
Our growth strategy depends on our ability to manage growing and changing operations.
 
Our business plan calls for significant growth in our business over the next several years.  This growth will place significant demands on our management and information technology systems, internal controls, and financial and professional resources. In addition, we will need to further develop our financial controls and reporting systems to accommodate future growth. This could require us to incur expenses for hiring additional qualified personnel, retaining professionals to assist in developing the appropriate control systems, and expanding our information technology infrastructure. Our inability to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.
 
Our growth strategy depends on our ability to develop and to acquire additional agencies on favorable terms and to integrate and operate these agencies effectively. If we are unable to do so, our future growth and operating results could be negatively impacted.
 
With regard to development, we expect to continue to open agencies in our existing and new markets. Our new agency growth, however, will depend on several factors, including our ability to:
·                  obtain locations for agencies in markets where need exists;
·                  identify and hire a sufficient number of sales personnel and appropriately trained home care and other health care professionals;
·                  obtain adequate financing to fund growth; and
·                  operate successfully under applicable government regulations.
 
With regard to acquisitions, we are focusing significant time and resources on the acquisition of home healthcare providers, or of certain of their assets, in targeted markets. We may be unable to identify, negotiate, and complete suitable acquisition opportunities on reasonable terms. We may incur future liabilities related to acquisitions. Should any of the following problems, or others, occur as a result of our acquisition strategy, the impact could be material:
·                  difficulties integrating personnel from acquired entities and other corporate cultures into our business;
·                  difficulties integrating information systems;
·                  the potential loss of key employees or referral sources of acquired companies or a reduction in patient referrals by hospitals from which we have acquired home health care agencies;
·                  the assumption of liabilities and exposure to undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies;
·                  the acquisition of an agency with undisclosed compliance problems;
·                  the diversion of management attention from existing operations;
·                  difficulties in recouping partial episode payments and other types of misdirected payments for services from the previous owners; or
·                  an unsuccessful claim for indemnification rights from previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of acquisition.
 
CMS has placed certain limitations on the sale or transfer of the Medicare Provider Agreement for any Medicare-certified home health agency that has been in existence for less than 36 months or that has undergone a change of
 
20





Table of Contents
 
ownership in the last 36 months.  This limitation may reduce the number of home health agencies that otherwise would have been available for acquisition and may limit our ability to successfully pursue our acquisition strategy.
 
We may require additional capital to pursue our acquisition strategy.
 
At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $33.7 million and additional borrowing capacity of approximately $119.2 million.  Based on our current plan of operations, including acquisitions, we cannot assure you that this amount will be sufficient, nor continue to be fully available, to support our current growth strategies.  We cannot readily predict the timing, size, and success of our acquisition efforts and the associated capital commitments.  If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we obtain additional equity or debt financing.
 
We have as recently as the third quarter of 2009, issued additional shares of our common stock pursuant to our December 2008 shelf registration statement. At some future point, we may elect to issue additional equity or debt securities in conjunction with raising capital or completing an acquisition.  We cannot assure you that such issuances will not be dilutive to existing shareholders.  Conversely, our board may approve stock repurchase programs in the future, which may use funds previously otherwise available for the pursuit of growth.
 
Our business depends on our information systems. Our inability to effectively integrate, manage, and keep secure our information systems could disrupt our operations.
 
Our business depends on effective and secure information systems that assist us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing claims, reporting financial results, measuring outcomes and quality of care, managing regulatory compliance controls, and maintaining operational efficiencies.  These systems include software developed in-house and systems provided by external contractors and other service providers.  To the extent that these external contractors or other service providers become insolvent or fail to support the software or systems, our operations could be negatively affected.  Our agencies also depend upon our information systems for accounting, billing, collections, risk management, quality assurance, payroll, learning management and other information.  If we experience a reduction in the performance, reliability, or availability of our information systems, our operations and ability to process transactions and produce timely and accurate reports could be adversely affected.
 
Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs.  Our acquisition activity requires transitions and integration of various information systems.  We regularly upgrade and expand our information systems’ capabilities.  If we experience difficulties with the transition and integration of information systems or are unable to implement, maintain, or expand our systems properly, we could suffer from, among other things, operational disruptions, regulatory problems, and increases in administrative expenses.
 
Our business requires the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks.  Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments could result in compromises or breaches of our security systems and patient data stored in our information systems.  Anyone who circumvents our security measures could misappropriate our confidential information or cause interruptions in our services or operations.  The Internet is a public network, and data is sent over this network from many sources.  In the past, computer viruses or software programs that disable or impair computers have been distributed and have rapidly spread over the Internet.  Computer viruses could be introduced into our systems, or those of our providers or regulators, which could disrupt our operations or make our systems inaccessible to our providers or regulators.  We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches.  Our security measures may be inadequate to prevent security breaches, and our business operations would be negatively impacted by cancellation of contracts and loss of patients if security breaches are not prevented.
 
Further, our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins and similar events.  A failure to implement our disaster recovery plans or ultimately restore our information systems after the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Because of the confidential health information we store and transmit, loss of electronically-stored information for any reason could expose us to a risk of regulatory action, litigation, possible liability and loss.
 
21





Table of Contents
 
We face additional federal requirements in the transmission and retention and protection of health information.
 
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) was enacted to ensure that employees can retain and at times transfer their health insurance when they change jobs and to simplify healthcare administrative processes.  The enactment of HIPAA expanded protection of the privacy and security of personal medical data and required the adoption of standards for the exchange of electronic health information.  Among the standards that the Secretary of Health and Human Services has adopted pursuant to HIPAA are standards for electronic transactions and code sets, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals, security and electronic signatures, privacy and enforcement.  Failure to comply with HIPAA could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us.
 
The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), effective February 22, 2010, sets forth health information security breach notification requirements.  The HITECH Act requires patient notification for all breaches, media notification of breaches of over 500 patients and at least annual reporting of all breaches to the Secretary of HHS.  The HITECH Act also includes 4 tiers of sanctions for breaches ($100 to $1.5 million).  Failure to comply with HITECH could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us.
 
We develop our clinical software system in-house. Failure of, or problems with, our system could harm our business and operating results.
 
We develop and utilize a proprietary clinical software system to collect assessment data, log patient visits, generate medical orders, and monitor treatments and outcomes in accordance with established medical standards.  The system integrates billing and collections functionality as well as accounting, human resource, payroll, and employee benefits programs provided by third parties.  Problems with, or the failure of, our technology and systems could negatively impact data capture, billing, collections, and management and reporting capabilities.  Any such problems or failures could adversely affect our operations and reputation, result in significant costs to us, and impair our ability to provide our services in the future.  The costs incurred in correcting any errors or problems may be substantial and could adversely affect our profitability.
 
We depend on outside software providers.
 
We depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information systems in operating our business, some of which are provided by outside software providers.  These information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading, and enhancement to meet our operational needs.  If our providers are unable to maintain or expand our information systems properly, we could suffer from operational disruptions and an increase in administrative expenses, among other things.
 
Our insurance liability coverage may not be sufficient for our business needs.
 
We bear significant insurance risk under our large-deductible workers’ compensation insurance program and our self-insured employee health program.  We also carry D&O coverage for potential claims against our directors and officers, including securities actions.  For additional information, please refer to Part I, Item 1, “Insurance Programs and Costs” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”.  Claims made to date or in the future may exceed the limits of such insurance, if any.  Such claims, if successful and in excess of such limits, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business or on our assets.  Our insurance coverage also includes fire, property damage, and general liability with varying limits.  Although we maintain insurance consistent with industry practice, we cannot assure you that the insurance we maintain will satisfy claims made against us.  In addition, as a result of operating in the home healthcare industry, our business entails an inherent risk of claims, losses and potential lawsuits alleging employee accidents that may occur in a patient’s home.  Finally, insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms.  Any claims made against us, regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, could damage our reputation and business.
 
22





Table of Contents
 
We estimate Medicare and Medicaid liabilities that may be payable by us in the future. These liabilities may be subject to audit or further review, and we may owe additional amounts beyond what we expect and have reserved.
 
The Company is paid for its services primarily by federal and state third-party reimbursement programs, commercial insurance companies, and patients. Revenues are recorded at established rates in the period during which the services are rendered.  Appropriate allowances are recorded when the services are rendered, if necessary, to give recognition to third party payment arrangements.
 
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation.  It is common for issues to arise related to: 1) medical coding, particularly with respect to Medicare, 2) patient eligibility, particularly related to Medicaid; and 3) other reasons unrelated to credit risk, all of which may result in adjustments to recorded revenue amounts.  Management continuously evaluates the potential for revenue adjustments and when appropriate provides allowances for losses based upon the best available information.  There is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates could change by material amounts in the near term.
 
We depend on the services of our executive officers and other key employees.
 
Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management team, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, William B. Yarmuth, and our other named executive officers.  We also depend upon the continued employment of the individuals that manage several of our key functional areas, including operations, business development, accounting, finance, human resources, marketing, information systems, contracting and compliance.  The departure of any member of our senior management team or inability to appropriately implement succession plans may materially affect our operations.
 
Our operations could be affected by natural disasters.
 
A substantial number of our agencies are located in Florida, increasing our exposure to hurricanes and other natural disasters.  The occurrence of natural disasters in the markets in which we operate could not only affect the day-to-day operations of our agencies but also could disrupt our relationships with patients, employees and referral sources located in the affected areas.  In addition, any episode of care that is not completed due to the impact of a natural disaster will generally result in lower revenue for the episode.  We cannot assure you that hurricanes or other natural disasters will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the future.
 
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock
 
The price of our common stock may be volatile and this may adversely affect our stockholders.
 
The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of health care companies. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:
·                  our operating and financial performance;
·                  variances in our quarterly financial results compared to expectations;
·                  the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock;
·                  future sales of common stock or the perception that sales could occur;
·                  investor perception of our business and our prospects;
·                  developments relating to litigation or governmental investigations;
·                  changes or proposed changes in health care laws or regulations or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; or
·                  general industry, economic and stock market conditions
 
In addition, the stock market in general has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of health care provider companies. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class-action litigation has often been brought against companies following
 
23





Table of Contents
 
periods of volatility in the market price of their respective securities. As previously mentioned and discussed more fully in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”, four putative class action lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky against us, our officers and or certain directors. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive to defend and may divert our management team’s attention as well as resources from the operation of our business.
 
Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the availability of those shares for future sale, could adversely affect our stock price and limit our ability to raise capital.
 
At December 31, 2011, 9,367,454 shares of our common stock were outstanding.  In 2007, we established the 2007 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan for the benefit of employees and directors providing for the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of common stock.  Moreover, as of December 31, 2011, 536,996 shares of our common stock remained reserved for issuance pursuant to our incentive compensation plans and 300,000 shares of our common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan.  The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of substantial amounts of our common stock to the public or the perception that substantial sales could occur.  These sales also may make it more difficult for us to sell common stock in the future to raise capital.
 
We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future, and you should not expect to receive dividends on shares of our common stock.
 
We do not pay dividends and intend to retain all future earnings to finance the continued growth and development of our business.  In addition, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future.  Any future payment of cash dividends will depend upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings, and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors.
 
Our Board of Directors may use anti-takeover provisions or issue stock to discourage control contests.
 
We have implemented anti-takeover provisions or provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect, including advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. These provisions, and others that the Board of Directors may adopt hereafter, may discourage offers to acquire us and may permit our Board of Directors to choose not to entertain offers to purchase us, even if such offers include a substantial premium to the market price of our stock.  Therefore, our stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to profit from a sale of control.
 
ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
 
NONE.
 
ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
 
Our executive offices are located in Louisville, Kentucky, in approximately 33,000 square feet of space leased from an unaffiliated party.
 
We have 205 real estate leases ranging from approximately 100 to 33,000 square feet of space in their respective locations.  See Part I, Item 1, “Business - Operating Segments” and Part II, Item 8, Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.  We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our current needs, and that additional or substitute facilities will be available if needed.
 
ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
From time to time, we are subject to various legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business, including claims for damages for personal injuries.  In our opinion the ultimate resolution of any of these pending ordinary course claims and legal proceedings will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.
 
In addition as previously disclosed, the Company has complied with a civil subpoena from the United States
 
24





Table of Contents
 
Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General received in December 2009.  The subpoena sought the production of various business records relating to the Company’s visiting nurse operations in Birmingham, Alabama, which were acquired in July 2006.  The Company was advised that the subpoena relates to an investigation arising in the context of a False Claims Act qui tam complaint containing allegations regarding the Company’s Medicare practices.  During 2011 the following developments occurred:  1) a qui tam complaint was filed regarding the Company’s Medicare practices at facilities in Tampa, Florida, which were acquired in October 2007.  This complaint was transferred to the United States District Court in the Northern District of Birmingham, Alabama; 2) the United States filed a motion to extend its intervention deadlines in both cases; 3) the Court denied the motions; 4) the United States has elected not to intervene at this time however its investigation remains open and it could elect to intervene in the future; and 5) the Court issued an order unsealing the Tampa case, but we have not yet been served a copy of the complaint.  The Company is cooperating fully with these investigations.
 
On April 27, 2010, The Wall Street Journal published an article exploring the relationship between the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services home health payment policies and the utilization rates of certain home health agencies.  Following The Wall Street Journal article, on May 12, 2010, the United States Senate Finance Committee (the “Committee”) sent a letter to each of the publicly traded companies mentioned in the article requesting information including Medicare utilization rates for therapy visits.  We cooperated fully with the Senate Finance Committee in providing the requested information.  On October 3, 2011, the Committee issued a report on the findings of its inquiry, which found that, among other things, “…none of the documents provided to the Committee by Almost Family show that executives ever pushed therapists to target thresholds or pursue more profitable clinical regimens.”
 
In June 2010, we received a notice of investigation and a civil subpoena for documents from the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We continue to cooperate with the investigation.  The Company and its officers and directors have continued to respond to additional document requests from the SEC Staff and the Staff recently took testimony of several officers and directors primarily with respect to their sales of common stock of the Company during May 2010.
 
Four derivative complaints have been filed in Jefferson Circuit Court, Kentucky, against the members of our board of directors and our chief financial officer. All four lawsuits name the Company as a nominal defendant.  All of the complaints refer to The Wall Street Journal article and the subsequent governmental investigations and make various allegations that the individual defendants breached duties owed to the Company in connection with Medicare reimbursements for home therapy visits.  The complaints seek damages from each of the individual defendants on behalf of the Company, various corporate governance reforms, and an award of attorneys’ fees and costs.  The Defendants have not filed a responsive pleading.  Our outside directors (and the Company as nominal defendant) filed a motion to stay the proceedings in light of the derivative complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky (discussed below).  However, dismissal of the federal court action (Huston) mentioned below mooted that motion and it was withdrawn.  On December 15, 2011 counsel for the Plaintiffs in these actions filed an amended consolidated complaint repeating the basic allegations and claims set out in the four original derivative complaints.  The suit is titled:  “In Re Almost Family, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation.  On February 13, 2012, the independent directors filed a motion to dismiss the complaint because the Plaintiffs failed to make any demand on the Board.  The officer Defendants filed a separate motion to dismiss.
 
A fifth derivative complaint titled Richard W. Carey, Derivatively and on Behalf of Almost Family, Inc. v. William B. Yarmuth, Steven B. Bing, Donald G. McClinton, Tyree G. Wilburn, Jonathan D. Goldberg, W. Earl Reed, III and Henry M. Altman, Jr., was filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, 3:11-CV-163-H.  The lawsuit names the Company as a nominal defendant and is substantially duplicative of the derivative complaint pending in the Jefferson Circuit Court.  The Court granted the Defendants’ motion to stay the lawsuit pending further order of the Court.
 
Four putative class action lawsuits pending against Almost Family in the United States District Court for the Western District of Kentucky were consolidated into a single class action lawsuit entitled In Re Almost Family Securities Litigation.  The consolidated complaint was filed on March 4, 2011.  The complaint refers to The Wall Street Journal article and the subsequent governmental investigations and alleges that the Company, its chief executive officer and chief financial officer violated federal securities laws.  The Company and its officers filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.  On February 10, 2012, the Court entered an order dismissing the complaint with prejudice.  The time for appeal of the decision has not yet expired.
 
25





Table of Contents
 
We are unable to assess the probable outcome or potential liability, if any, arising from these matters.
 
ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
 
Not applicable.
 
PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 
Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select market under the symbol “AFAM”  Set forth below are the high and low sale prices for the common stock for the periods indicated as reported by NASDAQ:
 



Closing Common Stock Prices 

  

  

  

  

   


Quarter Ended: 

  

High 

  

Low 

   


March 31, 2010 

  

41.13 

  

33.86 

   


June 30, 2010 

  

43.96 

  

34.84 

   


September 30, 2010 

  

31.08 

  

24.01 

   


December 31, 2010 

  

38.84 

  

28.61 

   


March 31, 2011 

  

40.23 

  

33.39 

   


June 30, 2011 

  

37.53 

  

23.95 

   


September 30, 2011 

  

27.65 

  

15.76 

   


December 31, 2011 

  

19.64 

  

12.53 

    
 
On February 21, 2012, the last reported sale price for the common stock reported by NASDAQ was $20.60 and there were approximately 334 holders of record of our common stock.  No cash dividends have been paid by us during the periods indicated above.  We do not presently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and will retain our earnings for future operations and the growth of our business.
 
26





Table of Contents
 
STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH
 
The following stock performance graph does not constitute soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates the performance graph by reference therein.
 
The Performance Graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock, $0.10 par value per share, for the five-year period ended December 31, 2011, with the cumulative total return on the Russell 2000 index and an industry peer group over the same period (assuming the investment of $100 in each on December 31, 2006 and the reinvestment of dividends, if any). The peer group we selected is comprised of: Amedisys, Inc. (AMED); Gentiva Health, Inc. (GTIV) and LHC Group, Inc. (LHCG). The cumulative total stockholder return on the following graph is historical and is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock.
 

 



  

  

12/06 

  

12/07 

  

12/08 

  

12/09 

  

12/10 

  

12/11 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Almost Family, Inc. 

  

$ 

100.00 

  

$ 

88.69 

  

$ 

205.31 

  

$ 

180.43 

  

$ 

175.37 

  

$ 

75.68 

   


Russell 2000 

  

100.00 

  

98.43 

  

65.18 

  

82.89 

  

105.14 

  

100.75 

   


Peer Group 

  

100.00 

  

115.85 

  

131.06 

  

135.45 

  

110.97 

  

36.14 

   




















  
 
27





Table of Contents
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The following table sets forth selected financial information derived from the consolidated financial statements of the Company for the periods and at the dates indicated.  The information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this and prior year Form 10-Ks.
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


(In thousands except per share data)  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

2008 

  

2007 

   


Results of operations data:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net service revenues  

  

$ 

339,853 

  

$ 

335,295 

  

$ 

295,982 

  

$ 

209,333 

  

$ 

128,834 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

20,802 

  

$ 

30,713 

  

$ 

24,564 

  

$ 

16,293 

  

$ 

7,603 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Per share:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Number of shares  

  

9,278 

  

9,123 

  

8,372 

  

7,369 

  

5,436 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2.24 

  

$ 

3.37 

  

$ 

2.93 

  

$ 

2.21 

  

$ 

1.40 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Diluted:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Number of shares  

  

9,360 

  

9,352 

  

8,589 

  

7,572 

  

5,600 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2.22 

  

$ 

3.28 

  

$ 

2.86 

  

$ 

2.16 

  

$ 

1.36 

    
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


Balance sheet data  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

2008 

  

2007 

   


Working capital  

  

$ 

63,948 

  

$ 

72,100 

  

$ 

39,568 

  

$ 

11,082 

  

$ 

5,505 

   


Total assets  

  

250,822 

  

220,127 

  

183,389 

  

157,097 

  

67,360 

   


Long-term liabilities  

  

15,707 

  

10,311 

  

9,140 

  

29,902 

  

17,552 

   


Total liabilities  

  

44,525 

  

37,959 

  

34,412 

  

62,314 

  

32,518 

   


Stockholders’ equity  

  

206,297 

  

182,168 

  

148,977 

  

94,783 

  

34,842 

   

















  
 
28





Table of Contents
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
OVERVIEW
 
The Company has two reportable segments, Visiting Nurse (VN) and Personal Care (PC).  Reportable segments have been identified based upon how management has organized the business by services provided to customers and the criteria in ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting.
 
Our VN segment provides skilled medical services in patients’ homes largely to enable recipients to reduce or avoid periods of hospitalization and/or nursing home care.  VN Medicare revenues are generated on a per episode basis rather than a fee per visit or an hourly basis. Approximately 92% of the VN segment revenues are generated from the Medicare program while the balance is generated from Medicaid and private insurance programs.
 
Our PC segment services are also provided in patients’ homes.  These services (generally provided by paraprofessional staff such as home health aides) are generally of a custodial rather than skilled nature.  PC revenues are typically generated on an hourly basis. Approximately 81% of the PC segment revenues are generated from Medicaid and other government programs while the balance is generated from insurance programs and private pay patients.
 
Our View on Reimbursement and Diversification of Risk
 
Our Company is highly dependent on government reimbursement programs which pay for the majority of the services we provide to our patients.  Reimbursement under these programs, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, is subject to frequent changes as policy makers balance their own needs to meet the health care needs of constituents while also meeting their fiscal objectives.  Medicare and Medicaid are consuming a greater percentage of federal and states’ budgets, respectively, which is exacerbated in times of economic downturn. We believe that these financial issues are cyclical in nature rather than indicative of the long-term prospect for Medicare and Medicaid funding of health care services. Additionally, we believe our services offer the lowest cost alternative to institutional care and are a part of the solution to both balancing the federal budget and the states’ Medicaid financing problems.
 
We believe that an important key to our historical success and to our future success is our ability to adapt our operations to meet changes in reimbursement as they occur.  One important way in which we have achieved this adaptability in the past, and in which we plan to achieve it in the future, is to maintain some level of diversification in our business mix.
 
The execution of our business plan will place primary emphasis on the development of our home health operations.  As our business grows we may evaluate opportunities for the provision of other health care services in patients’ homes that would be consistent with our Senior Advocacy mission.
 
Our Business Plan
 
Our future success depends on our ability to execute our business plan.  Over the next three to five years we will try to accomplish the following:
 
·                  Generate meaningful same store sales growth through the focused provision of high quality services and attending to the needs of our patients;
 
·                  Expand the significance of our home health services by selectively acquiring other quality providers, through the startup of new agencies and potentially  by providing new services in patients’ homes consistent with our Senior Advocacy mission; and
 
·                  Expand our capital base through both earnings performance and by seeking additional capital investments in our Company.
 
29





Table of Contents
 
Health Care Reform Legislation and Medicare Regulations
 
The U.S. Congress has been pursuing a comprehensive reform of the U.S. healthcare system since early 2009.  Numerous changes have been enacted, proposed and continue to be debated.  Many of the change provisions do not take effect for an extended period of time and most will require the publication of implementing regulations and/or the issuance of programmatic guidelines.  Refer to Part I, Item 1, “Government Regulations” and Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”.
 
Recently a number of efforts have been made by certain members of Congress to repeal or otherwise slow implementation.  Also, there have been a number of court cases filed challenging the legality of the Legislation on constitutional and other grounds.  In our view it is reasonable to expect these activities to continue to occur over the next few years.  Additionally, very often, sweeping new legislation is followed by subsequent legislation to address previously unanticipated consequences, or to further define provisions that were too vague to implement based on the language of the original legislation.
 
As a result of the broad scope of the Legislation, the significant changes it will effect in the healthcare industry and society generally, and the complexity of the technical issues it addresses, we are unable to predict, at this time, all the ramifications the Legislation and the implementing regulations may have on our business as a health care provider or a sponsor of an employee health insurance benefit plan.  The Legislation and implementing regulations and programmatic guidelines could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition in ways not currently anticipated by us.
 
Independent of the Legislation MedPac annually issues a report to the Congress on Medicare Payment Policy in which it makes specific recommendations for payment policy changes for all categories of providers including home health.  We are unable to predict what future recommendations may be.  Additionally, we are unable to predict whether, or in what form, the Congress or CMS might implement MedPac’s historical or future recommendations.
 
It is reasonable to expect that the Legislation might have a more immediate and negative impact on those providers generating lower margins than us, with more leverage relative to earnings than us, with less capital resources than us, or with less ability to adapt their operations.  Certain aspects of the Legislation appear to align with certain recommendations of MedPac.  MedPac suggests, in connection with its recommendation for a rebasing or recalculation of home health reimbursement rates, that such change may result in some agencies exiting Medicare.  Based on this and our own interpretation of the potential implications of such a rebasing, we believe that the Legislation may result in a contraction of the number of home health providers.  In the event of such a contraction in the number of providers, we believe the surviving providers may benefit from a higher rate of admissions growth than would have otherwise occurred.  Those surviving providers may earn incremental margins on those higher admissions that may serve to offset a portion of the rate reduction from the Medicare program.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting such higher admissions.
 
It is also reasonable to expect that the rate cuts, if enacted as presently outlined, will present additional opportunities for us to make acquisitions of other providers at valuations and on terms that are attractive to us and enable us to spread our segment and unallocated corporate overhead expenses across a larger business base.  However there can be no assurance that we will be successful in making such acquisitions.
 
There has been a great deal of legislative and regulatory change enacted or proposed in the last several months and, not all implementing regulations have been published.  Additionally, as also indicated above it is reasonable to expect more changes.  Such changes may similarly increase our costs, decrease our revenues, expose us to expanded liability or require us to revise the ways in which we conduct our business. Refer to the results of operations for the impact of these items on revenue, operating and net income for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Management is currently working to evaluate the implications of these changes and to develop appropriate courses of action for the Company.  Additionally, we may be unable to take actions to mitigate any or all of the negative implications of the Legislation and implementing regulations or programmatic guidelines.
 
Given the broad and far reaching implications of all these changes, the incomplete nature of these changes, the pace at which the changes are taking place and the prospects for future changes to be made, we cannot predict the
 
30





Table of Contents
 
ultimate impact, which may be material and adverse, that health care reform efforts and resulting Medicare reimbursement rates will have on our liquidity, our results of operations, the realizability of the carrying amounts of our intangible assets, including goodwill, or our financial condition.  Further, we are unable to predict what effect, if any, such material adverse effect, if it were to occur, might have on our ability to continue to comply with the financial covenants of our revolving credit facility and our ability to continue to access debt capital through that facility.
 
We may contemplate formulating and taking actions intended to mitigate or otherwise offset some of the negative effects of reimbursement changes.  These actions may include any or all of the following:
·                  Attempting to increase our revenues by: investing more resources in sales and marketing activities, development of diagnosis related specialty programs and increasing our educational programs regarding the value of home health to drive admission growth, establishing startup branch operations to expand our service territories, and acquisitions of underperforming providers with strong referral relationships,
·                  Attempting to reduce our costs by: developing a more efficient delivery model, increasing the productivity standards for our staff, optimizing the appropriate use of different levels of professional staff, limiting or eliminating the growth in wage rates, limiting or reducing the size of our work force, closing unprofitable branch operations and accelerating our efforts to evaluate the use of various technological approaches to the delivery of patient care to improve patient outcomes and/or improve the productivity of our workforce,
·                  Evaluating the potential implications of health care reform on our employee benefit plans, and possible changes we may need to make to our plans, and
·                  Potentially other actions we deem appropriate including evaluation of potential additional service offerings in patients’ homes consistent with our Senior Advocacy mission or changing the mix of the types of services we provide.
 
Although we will attempt to mitigate or otherwise offset the negative effect of health care reform on our reimbursement revenue and our employee benefit plans, our actions may not ultimately be cost effective or prove successful.
 
Governmental Inquiries and Shareholder Litigation
 
See Part II, Item 8, Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of certain governmental inquiries and subsequent related litigation.  The Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters. However, the Company may incur on-going expenses, net of insurance recoveries, if any, related to responding to these inquiries and complaints.
 
Seasonality
 
Our Visiting Nurse segment operations located in Florida (which generated approximately 43% of that segment’s revenues in 2011) normally experience higher admissions during the first quarter and lower admissions during the third quarter than in the other quarters due to seasonal population fluctuations.
 
Critical Accounting Policies
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. When more than one accounting principle, or the method of its application, is generally accepted, we select the principle or method that is appropriate in the specific circumstances. Application of these accounting principles requires us to make estimates about the future resolution of existing uncertainties; as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. We evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, collectability of accounts receivable, insurance reserves, goodwill, intangibles, income taxes, stock-based compensation, litigation, and contingencies on an on-going basis.  We base these estimates on our historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances.  In preparing these consolidated financial statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of the amounts and disclosures included in the consolidated financial statements.
 
31





Table of Contents
 
Revenue Recognition
 
We recognize revenues when patient services are provided, primarily in our patients’ homes.  Net service revenues are stated at amounts estimated by us to be their net realizable values. We are paid for our services primarily by federal and state third-party reimbursement programs and, to a lesser degree, commercial insurance companies and patients.
 
Medicare Revenues
Approximately 77% of our net service revenues are derived from the Medicare program.  Net service revenues are recorded under the Medicare payment program PPS based on a 60-day episode payment rate that is subject to adjustment based on certain variables including, but not limited to: (a) an outlier payment if our patient’s care was unusually costly (capped at 10% of total reimbursement); (b) a LUPA if the number of visits was fewer than five; (c) a partial payment if our patient transferred to another provider or we received a patient from another provider before completing the episode; (d) a payment adjustment based upon the level of therapy services required (thresholds set at 6, 14 and 20 visits); (e) the number of episodes of care provided to a patient; (f) changes in the base episode payments established by the Medicare program; and (g) adjustments to the base episode payments for case mix and geographic wages.
 
At the beginning of each Medicare episode we calculate an estimate of the amount of expected reimbursement based on the variables outlined above and recognize Medicare revenue on an episode-by-episode basis during the course of each episode over its expected number of visits.  Over the course of each episode, as changes in the variables become known, we calculate and record adjustments as needed to reflect changes in expectations for that episode from those established at the start of the 60 day period until its ultimate outcome at the end of the 60 day period is known.
 
Non-Medicare Revenues
Substantially all remaining revenues are derived from services provided under a per visit, per hour or unit basis (as opposed to episodic) for which revenues are calculated and recorded using payor-specific or patient-specific fee schedules based on the contracted rates in each third party payor agreement.
 
Revenue Adjustments
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation.  As a result, we may adjust previously recorded revenue amounts due to issues related to: a) medical coding, particularly with respect to Medicare, b) patient eligibility, particularly with respect to Medicaid, and c) other reasons unrelated to credit risk.  Revenue adjustments, if any, to reflect actual payment amounts for completed episodes or services provided under per visit, per hour or unit basis which differ from our estimates or audit adjustments are recorded when known and estimable.  Historically, revenue adjustments have not been significant and as such, we believe that net service revenues and accounts receivable - net reflect their net realizable value.  Changes in estimates related to prior periods decreased revenues by approximately $215,000, $182,000, and $242,000 in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable are reported at their estimated net realizable value and are net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts and adjustments. Accounts receivable consist primarily of amounts due from third-party payors and patients. We evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on certain factors, such as payor types, historical collection trends and aging categories. We calculate our reserve for uncollectible accounts based on the length of time that the receivables are past due.  The percentage applied to the receivable balances in the various aging categories is based on historical collection experience, business and economic conditions and reimbursement trends.
 
Insurance Programs
 
We bear significant insurance risk under our large-deductible workers’ compensation insurance program and our self-insured employee health program.  Under the workers’ compensation insurance program, we bear risk up to $400,000 per incident.  We purchase stop-loss insurance for the employee health plan that places a specific limit, generally $100,000, on our exposure for any individual covered life.
 
32





Table of Contents
 
Malpractice and general patient liability claims for incidents which may give rise to litigation have been asserted against us by various claimants.  The claims are in various stages of processing and some may ultimately be brought to trial.  We are aware of incidents that have occurred through December 31, 2011 that may result in the assertion of additional claims.  We currently carry professional and general liability insurance coverage (on a claims made basis) for this exposure with no deductible.  We also carry D&O coverage (also on a claims made basis) for potential claims against our directors and officers, including securities actions, with deductibles ranging from $100,000 to $250,000 per claim.
 
We record estimated liabilities for our insurance programs based on information provided by the third-party plan administrators, historical claims experience, the life cycle of claims, expected costs of claims incurred but not paid, and expected costs to settle unpaid claims.  We monitor our estimated insurance-related liabilities and recoveries, if any, on a monthly basis and as required by ASU 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries, record amounts due under insurance policies in other current assets, while recording the estimated carrier liability in other current liabilities in our December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  As facts change, it may become necessary to make adjustments that could be material to our results of operations and financial condition.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Intangible assets are stated at fair value at the time of acquisition and goodwill represents the excess cost over the fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  Finite lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized.  We perform impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived assets as required by ASC Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other on at least an annual basis. The impairment analysis requires numerous subjective assumptions and estimates to determine fair value of the respective reporting units.  We estimate the fair value of the related reporting units using a combined market approach (guideline company and similar transaction method) and income approach (discounted cash flow analysis).  These models are based on our projections of future revenues and operating costs and are reconciled to our consolidated market capitalization.  The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate based on our weighted average cost of capital as well as the weighted average cost of capital of other market participants of 15.5% and a terminal growth rate of 3.0%.  A 200 basis point change in either assumption (either individually or in the aggregate) would not result in any impairment of our goodwill balances.  As of December 31, 2011, we completed our impairment review and determined that no impairment existed.  Future Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, admissions, volumes, our liquidity and ability to control costs and other factors may have a significant impact on our business and could require the recognition of impairment charges in the future.
 
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
We account for taxes in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes.  As of December 31, 2011, we have net deferred tax liabilities of approximately $6.2 million.  The net deferred tax liability is composed of approximately $7.4 million of current deferred tax assets and approximately $13.6 million of long-term deferred tax liabilities.  We have provided a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets based upon our estimates of realizability of those assets through future taxable income.  This valuation allowance was based in large part on our history of generating operating income or losses in individual tax locales and expectations for the future.  Our ability to generate the expected amounts of taxable income from future operations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive pressures on revenues and margins and legislation and regulation at all levels of government.  Further, we have book goodwill of $56.9 million which is not deductible for tax purposes.  The remaining deductible goodwill provides an annual tax deduction approximating $5.0 million through 2021.  We have considered the above factors in reaching our conclusion that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be sufficient to fully utilize the deferred tax assets (net of the valuation allowance) as of December 31, 2011.
 
33





Table of Contents
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions as outlined in ASC Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation.  To estimate the fair value of options, we use the Monte Carlo option valuation model which requires the input of several subjective assumptions.  These assumptions include estimating the length of time employees will retain their vested stock options before exercising them (expected term), the estimated volatility of our common stock price over the expected term, projected suboptimal exercise behavior, and the number of options that will ultimately not complete their vesting requirements (forfeitures), among others.  Changes in any of our assumptions could materially affect stock-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated statements of operations.
 
34





Table of Contents
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2010
(In thousands)
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

Change 

   


Consolidated  

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% 

   


Net service revenues:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse  

  

$ 

284,509 

  

83.7 

% 

$ 

294,915 

  

88.0 

% 

$ 

(10,406 

) 

-3.5 

%  


Personal Care  

  

55,344 

  

16.3 

% 

40,380 

  

12.0 

% 

14,964 

  

37.1 

%  


  

  

339,853 

  

100.0 

% 

335,295 

  

100.0 

% 

4,558 

  

1.4 

%  


Operating income before corporate expenses:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse  

  

46,132 

  

16.2 

% 

66,316 

  

22.5 

% 

(20,184 

) 

-30.4 

%  


Personal Care  

  

8,382 

  

15.1 

% 

5,513 

  

13.7 

% 

2,869 

  

52.0 

%  


  

  

54,514 

  

16.0 

% 

71,829 

  

21.4 

% 

(17,315 

) 

-24.1 

%  


Corporate expenses  

  

19,953 

  

5.9 

% 

20,172 

  

6.0 

% 

(219 

) 

-1.1 

%  


Operating income  

  

34,561 

  

10.2 

% 

51,657 

  

15.4 

% 

(17,096 

) 

-33.1 

%  


Interest expense, net  

  

(180 

) 

-0.1 

% 

(266 

) 

-0.1 

% 

86 

  

-32.3 

%  


Income tax expense  

  

(13,579 

) 

-4.0 

% 

(20,678 

) 

-6.2 

% 

7,099 

  

-34.3 

%  


Net income  

  

$ 

20,802 

  

6.1 

% 

$ 

30,713 

  

9.2 

% 

$ 

(9,911 

) 

-32.3 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


EBITDA (1)  

  

$ 

38,799 

  

11.4 

% 

$ 

56,075 

  

16.7 

% 

$ 

(17,276 

) 

-30.8 

%   
 

(1)  See page 46 for discussion of EBITDA.
 
Results for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the impact of the Medicare reimbursement rate cuts which reduced consolidated and VN segment revenue and pre-tax operating income by $15.7 million and further includes the results of our Cambridge acquisition, which closed in August 2011.  Refer to the VN and PC segment discussions, respectively, regarding the Medicare rate cuts and the Cambridge acquisition.
 
On a consolidated basis, net service revenues increased $4.6 million or about 1.4% to $339.9 million in 2011, up from $335.3 million in 2010 primarily due to net service revenues from our Cambridge acquisition and VN segment volume growth which was partially offset by the Medicare rate cuts.
 
Operating income before corporate expenses declined $17.3 million from the prior year largely as a result of the Medicare rate cuts and performance issues in our Florida VN operations, which were partially offset by operating income before corporate expenses from our Cambridge acquisition.  Refer to segment results for further discussion of those matters.
 
Corporate expenses in 2011 included approximately $1.3 million of governmental inquiries and resulting litigation costs, net of insurance recoveries, up from $1.2 million in 2010, and approximately $1.2 million of costs related to acquisition and transition activities for which costs in 2010 were not material.  Corporate expenses include the costs of our management incentive program, which declined $2.5 million in 2011 from 2010, as 2011 incentive targets were not achieved, while certain 2010 targets were.  Acquisition and transition costs were not significant in 2010.
 
The effective tax rate was approximately 39.5% in 2011, down from 40.2% in 2010, primarily due to the impact of a lower state tax rate from the Cambridge acquisition.
 
35





Table of Contents
 
Visiting Nurse Segment-Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Approximately 92% of the VN segment revenues were generated from the Medicare program while the balance was generated from Medicaid and private insurance programs.  In addition to our focus on operating income from the Visiting Nurse segment, we also measure this segment’s performance in terms of admissions, episodes, visits, patient months of care, revenue per episode and visits per episode. (In thousands, except statistical information)
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% 

   


Net service revenues 

  

$ 

284,509 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

294,915 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

(10,406 

) 

-3.5 

%  


Cost of service revenues 

  

130,792 

  

46.0 

% 

126,122 

  

42.8 

% 

4,670 

  

3.7 

%  


Gross margin 

  

153,717 

  

54.0 

% 

168,793 

  

57.2 

% 

(15,076 

) 

-8.9 

%  


General and administrative expenses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and benefits 

  

81,965 

  

28.8 

% 

76,319 

  

25.9 

% 

5,646 

  

7.4 

%  


Other 

  

25,620 

  

9.0 

% 

26,158 

  

8.9 

% 

(538 

) 

-2.1 

%  


Total general and administrative expenses 

  

107,585 

  

37.8 

% 

102,477 

  

34.7 

% 

5,108 

  

5.0 

%  


Operating income before corporate expenses 

  

$ 

46,132 

  

16.2 

% 

$ 

66,316 

  

22.5 

% 

$ 

(20,184 

) 

-30.4 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average number of locations 

  

98 

  

  

  

86 

  

  

  

12 

  

14.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


All payors: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Patients Months 

  

210,135 

  

  

  

205,681 

  

  

  

4,454 

  

2.2 

%  


Admissions 

  

61,596 

  

  

  

58,291 

  

  

  

3,305 

  

5.7 

%  


Billable Visits 

  

1,912,543 

  

  

  

1,886,287 

  

  

  

26,256 

  

1.4 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Medicare Statistics: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Revenue (in thousands) 

  

$ 

261,960 

  

92.1 

% 

$ 

271,248 

  

92.0 

% 

$ 

(9,288 

) 

-3.4 

%  


Billable visits 

  

1,616,288 

  

  

  

1,581,360 

  

  

  

34,928 

  

2.2 

%  


Admissions 

  

56,007 

  

  

  

52,757 

  

  

  

3,250 

  

6.2 

%  


Recertifications 

  

32,549 

  

  

  

34,285 

  

  

  

(1,736 

) 

-5.1 

%  


Episodes Completed 

  

87,533 

  

  

  

86,414 

  

  

  

1,119 

  

1.3 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Revenue per completed episode 

  

$ 

3,002 

  

  

  

$ 

3,140 

  

  

  

$ 

(138 

) 

-4.4 

%   
 
VN segment net service revenues declined to $284.5 million in 2011, a 3.5% decrease from $294.9 million in 2010 as a result of the 2011 and 2012 Medicare rate cuts totaling $15.7 million, partially offset by higher volumes.  Episodic volumes increased due to a 6.2% increase in Medicare admissions (4.7% of which was organically generated), partially offset by a 5.1% decrease in recertifications (subsequent episodes on previously admitted patients).  Also, during 2011, the Company recorded a $1.3 million revenue allowance for episodes started after April 1, 2011 related to the new face-to-face and therapy reassessment regulations.
 
Cost of service revenues grew 3.7% exceeding the 1.4% rate of growth in visits primarily due to disruption in labor costs in Florida beginning in the second quarter of 2011 resulting from management changes in the midst of complying with new regulatory requirements.
 
General and administrative expenses - Salaries and benefits grew by about $5.6 million primarily as a result of new branches in operation, expansion of our sales and marketing work force and labor cost issues primarily in Florida in 2011.  General and administrative expenses - Other decreased primarily due to a lower provision for uncollectible accounts.
 
The table below highlights the impact of Medicare rate changes on VN segment net service revenues:
 
36





Table of Contents
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


2012 rate cut 

  

$ 

(614 

) 

$ 

— 

   


2011 rate cut 

  

(15,100 

) 

(1,200 

)  


2010 rate increases 

  

— 

  

5,264 

   


  

  

$ 

(15,714 

) 

$ 

4,064 

    
 
Episodes in progress at December 31, 2011 and 2010 reflect the impact of the 2012 and 2011 rate cuts, respectively, because the cuts were effective for episodes in the year in which the episodes completes.
 
37





Table of Contents
 
Personal Care Segment-Years Ended December 31, 2011 and 2010
Approximately 81% of the PC segment revenues were generated from Medicaid and other government programs while the balance is generated from insurance programs and private pay patients.  (In thousands, except statistical information)
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% 

   


Net service revenues 

  

$ 

55,344 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

40,380 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

14,964 

  

37.1 

%  


Cost of service revenues 

  

36,250 

  

65.5 

% 

26,420 

  

65.4 

% 

9,830 

  

37.2 

%  


Gross margin 

  

19,094 

  

34.5 

% 

13,960 

  

34.6 

% 

5,134 

  

36.8 

%  


General and administrative expenses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and benefits 

  

6,979 

  

12.6 

% 

5,225 

  

12.9 

% 

1,754 

  

33.6 

%  


Other 

  

3,733 

  

6.7 

% 

3,222 

  

8.0 

% 

511 

  

15.9 

%  


Total general and administrative expenses 

  

10,712 

  

19.4 

% 

8,447 

  

20.9 

% 

2,265 

  

26.8 

%  


Operating income before corporate expenses 

  

$ 

8,382 

  

15.1 

% 

$ 

5,513 

  

13.7 

% 

$ 

2,869 

  

52.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average number of locations 

  

30 

  

  

  

22 

  

  

  

8 

  

36.4 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Admissions 

  

3,573 

  

  

  

2,863 

  

  

  

710 

  

24.8 

%  


Patient months of care 

  

55,107 

  

  

  

44,823 

  

  

  

10,284 

  

22.9 

%  


Patient days of care 

  

763,647 

  

  

  

578,879 

  

  

  

184,768 

  

31.9 

%  


Billable hours 

  

3,076,193 

  

  

  

2,263,702 

  

  

  

812,491 

  

35.9 

%  


Revenue per billable hour 

  

$ 

17.99 

  

  

  

$ 

17.84 

  

  

  

$ 

0.15 

  

0.9 

%   
 
Our 2011 PC results include acquisitions including Cambridge, which was effective August 5, 2011 and increased net service revenues, gross margin and operating income before corporate expenses by $14.7 million, $4.9 million and $2.8 million, respectively.
 
Organic PC segment net service revenues also increased $0.3 million, or 0.8%, due to an organic increase in average rate per hour (which was generated from changes in discipline, payor and geographic mix rather than actual rate increases).
 
Total general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues reduced to 19.4% from 20.9% due to our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure over a larger revenue base.
 
As a result, PC segment operating income before corporate expenses increased to $8.4 million from $5.5 million in 2010, while operating income before corporate expenses as a percent of revenues increased to 15.1% in 2011 from 13.7% in 2010.
 
38





Table of Contents
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009
(in thousands)
 



  

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

Change 

   


Consolidated  

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% 

   


Net service revenues:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse  

  

$ 

294,915 

  

88.0 

% 

$ 

256,060 

  

86.5 

% 

$ 

38,855 

  

15.2 

%  


Personal Care  

  

40,380 

  

12.0 

% 

39,922 

  

13.5 

% 

458 

  

1.1 

%  


  

  

335,295 

  

100.0 

% 

295,982 

  

100.0 

% 

39,313 

  

13.3 

%  


Operating income before corporate expenses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse  

  

66,316 

  

22.5 

% 

53,973 

  

21.1 

% 

12,343 

  

22.9 

%  


Personal Care  

  

5,513 

  

13.7 

% 

5,100 

  

12.8 

% 

413 

  

8.1 

%  


  

  

71,829 

  

21.4 

% 

59,073 

  

20.0 

% 

12,756 

  

21.6 

%  


Corporate expenses  

  

20,172 

  

6.0 

% 

17,205 

  

5.8 

% 

2,967 

  

17.2 

%  


Operating income  

  

51,657 

  

15.4 

% 

41,868 

  

14.1 

% 

9,789 

  

23.4 

%  


Interest expense, net  

  

(266 

) 

-0.1 

% 

(803 

) 

-0.3 

% 

537 

  

-66.9 

%  


Income tax expense  

  

(20,678 

) 

-6.2 

% 

(16,501 

) 

-5.6 

% 

(4,177 

) 

25.3 

%  


Net income 

  

$ 

30,713 

  

9.2 

% 

$ 

24,564 

  

8.3 

% 

$ 

6,149 

  

25.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


EBITDA (1)  

  

$ 

56,075 

  

16.7 

% 

$ 

45,624 

  

15.4 

% 

$ 

10,451 

  

22.9 

%   
 

(1)  See page 46 for discussion of EBITDA.
 
On a consolidated basis, our 2010 net service revenues increased 13.3% to approximately $335.3 million compared to $296.0 million in 2009.  Organic revenue growth was approximately $37.0 million or 94.2% of our total growth while acquisitions increased revenue by approximately $2.3 million.
 
Operating income in 2010 grew approximately 23% over 2009 primarily due to VN segment revenue growth of approximately 15%.  Operating income as a percent of revenues increased to 15.4% in 2010 versus 14.1% in 2009 based primarily on VN Medicare rate increases and organic volume growth.  Unallocated corporate expenses included $1.2 million (or 0.4% of revenue) in fees and expenses associated with the governmental inquiries discussed previously.
 
The $0.5 million decrease in interest expense related to lower principal amounts outstanding in 2010, compared to 2009 on funds borrowed to finance our acquisitions.  The weighted prime rate-based interest rates were 3.33% and 3.40% in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  The weighted average LIBOR-based rate was 1.93% and 2.26% in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
The effective income tax rate was 40.2% in both 2010 and 2009.  Net income for 2010 was $30.7 million or $3.28 per diluted share compared to $24.6 million or $2.86 per diluted share in 2009.
 
39





Table of Contents
 
Visiting Nurse Segment-Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
Approximately 92% of the VN segment revenues were generated from the Medicare program while the balance was generated from Medicaid and private insurance programs. (In thousands, except statistical information)
 



  

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Amount  

  

% Rev 

  

Amount  

  

% Rev 

  

Amount  

  

% 

   


Net service revenues 

  

$ 

294,915 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

256,060 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

38,855 

  

15.2 

%  


Cost of service revenues 

  

126,122 

  

42.8 

% 

110,661 

  

43.2 

% 

15,461 

  

14.0 

%  


Gross margin 

  

168,793 

  

57.2 

% 

145,399 

  

56.8 

% 

23,394 

  

16.1 

%  


General and administrative expenses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and benefits 

  

76,319 

  

25.9 

% 

66,929 

  

26.1 

% 

9,390 

  

14.0 

%  


Other 

  

26,158 

  

8.9 

% 

24,497 

  

9.6 

% 

1,661 

  

6.8 

%  


Total general and administrative expenses 

  

102,477 

  

34.7 

% 

91,426 

  

35.7 

% 

11,051 

  

12.1 

%  


Operating income before corporate expenses 

  

$ 

66,316 

  

22.5 

% 

$ 

53,973 

  

21.1 

% 

$ 

12,343 

  

22.9 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average number of locations 

  

86 

  

  

  

76 

  

  

  

10 

  

13.2 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


All payors: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Patients Months 

  

205,681 

  

  

  

185,959 

  

  

  

19,722 

  

10.6 

%  


Admissions 

  

58,291 

  

  

  

52,029 

  

  

  

6,262 

  

12.0 

%  


Billable Visits 

  

1,886,287 

  

  

  

1,712,480 

  

  

  

173,807 

  

10.1 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Medicare Statistics: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Revenue (in thousands) 

  

$ 

271,248 

  

92.0 

% 

$ 

230,383 

  

90.0 

% 

$ 

40,865 

  

17.7 

%  


Billable visits 

  

1,581,360 

  

  

  

1,395,001 

  

  

  

186,359 

  

13.4 

%  


Admissions 

  

52,757 

  

  

  

47,110 

  

  

  

5,647 

  

12.0 

%  


Recertifications 

  

34,285 

  

  

  

29,326 

  

  

  

4,959 

  

16.9 

%  


Episodes Completed 

  

86,414 

  

  

  

76,436 

  

  

  

9,978 

  

13.1 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Revenue per completed episode 

  

$ 

3,140 

  

  

  

$ 

2,974 

  

  

  

$ 

166 

  

5.6 

%   
 
Net service revenues in the VN segment for 2010 rose 15.2% to approximately $294.9 million.  The $38.9 million increase was primarily driven by 12% growth in Medicare admissions and episodes and a 5.6% increase in revenue per episode.  Revenue per episode increased approximately 3.0% due to acuity with the remaining 2.6% from a combination of Medicare rate changes and in the geographic mix of the patients we served.  A Medicare rate increase of approximately 1.75% on January 1, 2010 and a rural-rate add-on of 3% on April 1, 2010 (effectively 0.2% for the Company) were partially offset by the impact of the 5.2% Medicare reimbursement rate cut for 2011 which reduced revenue by $1.2 million for episodes started in the fourth quarter which did not complete until 2011.  The increase in the average number of visits per episode was caused by the increased acuity level (care needs) of our patients.
 
The combination of the Medicare rate increases and ability to leverage our existing infrastructure over higher volumes, enabled gross margin as a percentage of revenue to improve to 57.2% in 2010 from 56.8% in 2009, while total general and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue declined to 34.7% from 35.7%.
 
40





Table of Contents
 
Personal Care Segment-Years Ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
Approximately 69% of the PC segment revenues were generated from Medicaid and other government programs while the balance is generated from insurance programs and private pay patients.  (In thousands, except statistical information)
 



  

  

2010 

  

2009 

  

Change 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% Rev 

  

Amount 

  

% 

   


Net service revenues 

  

$ 

40,380 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

39,922 

  

100.0 

% 

$ 

458 

  

1.1 

%  


Cost of service revenues 

  

26,420 

  

65.4 

% 

26,629 

  

66.7 

% 

(209 

) 

-0.8 

%  


Gross margin 

  

13,960 

  

34.6 

% 

13,293 

  

33.3 

% 

667 

  

5.0 

%  


General and administrative expenses: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and benefits 

  

5,225 

  

12.9 

% 

5,086 

  

12.7 

% 

139 

  

2.7 

%  


Other 

  

3,222 

  

8.0 

% 

3,107 

  

7.8 

% 

115 

  

3.7 

%  


Total general and administrative expenses 

  

8,447 

  

20.9 

% 

8,193 

  

20.5 

% 

254 

  

3.1 

%  


Operating income before corporate expenses 

  

$ 

5,513 

  

13.7 

% 

$ 

5,100 

  

12.8 

% 

$ 

413 

  

8.1 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average number of locations 

  

22 

  

  

  

22 

  

  

  

— 

  

0.0 

%  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Admissions 

  

2,863 

  

  

  

3,055 

  

  

  

(192 

) 

-6.3 

%  


Patient months of care 

  

44,823 

  

  

  

45,242 

  

  

  

(419 

) 

-0.9 

%  


Patient days of care 

  

578,879 

  

  

  

572,407 

  

  

  

6,472 

  

1.1 

%  


Billable hours 

  

2,263,702 

  

  

  

2,280,233 

  

  

  

(16,531 

) 

-0.7 

%  


Revenue per billable hour 

  

$ 

17.84 

  

  

  

$ 

17.51 

  

  

  

$ 

0.33 

  

1.9 

%   
 
Net service revenues in the personal care segment were flat for 2010 at $40.4 compared to 2009 at $39.9 million.  Our net effective rate per hour increased approximately 1.9% due to changes in state, payor and service mix approximately offsetting a 0.7% decrease in billable hours.  Gross margin as a percentage of revenue improved to 34.6% in 2010 from 33.3% in 2009 due to improved control over direct care staff pay rates and overtime and due to mix changes.  General and administrative expense as a percent of revenues was 20.9%, which was consistent with the prior year.
 
As a result, operating income before corporate expenses in the PC segment increased 8.1% to $5.5 million in 2010 from $5.1 million in 2009 and operating income as a percent of revenue increased to 13.7% in 2010 from 12.8% in 2009.
 
41





Table of Contents
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
We believe that a certain amount of debt has an appropriate place in our overall capital structure and it is not our strategy to eliminate all debt financing.  We believe that our cash flow from operations, cash on hand, and borrowing capacity on our bank credit facility, described below, will be sufficient to cover operating needs, future capital expenditure requirements and scheduled debt payments of miscellaneous small borrowing arrangements and capitalized leases.  In addition, it is likely that we will pursue growth from acquisitions, partnerships and other ventures that would be funded from excess cash from operations, cash on hand, credit available under the bank credit agreement and other financing arrangements that are normally available in the marketplace.  Further, our board may pursue a stock repurchase program.
 
On August 5, 2009, the Company entered into a Distribution Agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.  According to the Distribution Agreement, the Company could offer and sell from time to time up to 1.6 million shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $50 million through J.P. Morgan, as distribution agent.  Sales of stock were made by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions on the Nasdaq Global Select Market at market prices.  The Company issued 968,000 of our shares of common stock pursuant to this Distribution Agreement, which terminated June 30, 2010 with no additional shares issued.
 
Revolving Credit Facility
 
At December 31, 2011, the Company had a $125 million senior secured revolving credit facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, as Syndication Agent and certain other lenders (the Facility).  The Facility consists of a $125 million credit line with a maturity date of December 2, 2015 and an “accordion” feature providing for potential future expansion of the facility to $175 million.  Borrowings (other than letters of credit) under the credit facility are at either the bank’s prime rate plus a margin (ranging from 1.25% to 2.25%, currently 1.25%) or LIBOR plus a margin (ranging from 2.25% to 3.25%, currently 2.25%).  The margin for prime rate or LIBOR borrowings is determined by the Company’s leverage.  Borrowings under the Facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest in all tangible and intangible assets of the Company, and all existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors.
 
The weighted average prime rate-based interest rates were 4.50% and 3.33% for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The weighted average LIBOR rate was 2.59% and 1.98% for 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The Company pays a quarterly commitment fee of 0.30% to 0.50% on the average daily unused facility balance based on leverage. Borrowings are subject to various covenants including a multiple of 3.0 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). “EBITDA” may include “Acquired EBITDA” from pro-forma acquisitions pursuant to a calculation rider, up to 50% of “Adjusted EBITDA”, as defined. Borrowings under the Facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, the formula permitted all $125 million to be used, of which no amounts were outstanding. We had irrevocable letters of credit totaling $5.8 million outstanding in connection with our self-insurance programs, which resulted in a total of $119.2 million being available for use at December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the Facility’s various financial covenants. Under the most restrictive of its covenants, we were required to maintain minimum net worth of at least $147.9 million at December 31, 2011.  At such date, our net worth was approximately $206.3 million.
 
We believe that this Facility will be sufficient to fund our operating needs for at least the next year.  We will continue to evaluate additional capital, including possible debt and equity investments in the Company, to support a more rapid development of the business than would be possible with internal funds.
 
42





Table of Contents
 
Cash Flows
 
Key elements to the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows were as follows for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
 



Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents 

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Provided by (used in): 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Operating activities 

  

$ 

25,932 

  

$ 

34,769 

  

$ 

26,917 

   


Investing activities 

  

(40,053 

) 

(5,407 

) 

(8,461 

)  


Financing activities 

  

(129 

) 

(808 

) 

(249 

)  


Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash   equivalents 

  

$ 

(14,250 

) 

$ 

28,554 

  

$ 

18,207 

    
 
2011 Compared to 2010
Net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from current period net income of $20.8 million, net of changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses.  Days revenues in accounts receivable were 46 at December 31, 2011 and 43 at December 31, 2010.
 
The cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the acquisitions completed in April and August of 2011 for total cash of approximately $37.1 million, with the remainder due to capital expenditures.
 
Net cash used in financing activities for 2011 decreased over the prior year period primarily due to a $0.3 million increase in the tax benefit from share-based awards.  The Company received a current tax deduction, subject to IRS limits, for option award exercises, restriction lapses for restricted awards and distribution of shares in connection the terminated Directors Deferred Compensation Plan.  Such deductions are shown in the cash flow statement as a financing cash inflow.
 
2010 Compared to 2009
Net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from current period income of $34.8 million, net of changes in accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses.  Days revenues in accounts receivable were 43 and 41 at December 31, 2011 and 2009, respectively.
 
The cash used in investing activities is primarily related to capital expenditures and additional amounts paid under earn-out agreements entered into in conjunction with our historical acquisitions.
 
Net cash used in financing activities resulted primarily from the payments of $1.8 million on capital leases and notes payable which were offset by the impact of the tax benefit of stock option exercises.  The Company’s stock option plans permit optionees to have option shares withheld on exercises in lieu of submitting to the Company the amount necessary for income tax withholdings.  Such withholding of shares in lieu of taxes is shown in the cash flow as a repurchase of shares in the amount of $0.6 million.  The Company receives a current tax deduction for compensation expense subject to IRS limits.  Such deductions related to stock option exercises in 2010 are shown in the cash flow statement as a financing cash inflow of approximately $1.2 million.
 
Medicaid Reimbursement
 
We have a significant dependence on state Medicaid reimbursement programs.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 8.2%, 6.1%, 2.8%, 0.6%, 0.2%, 0.1% and 0.1% of our revenues were generated from Medicaid reimbursement programs in the states of Ohio, Connecticut, Kentucky, Florida, New Jersey, Indiana, and Pennsylvania, respectively.  The state of Ohio Medicaid Program implemented a 3% rate reduction across the board beginning January 1, 2010 which continued in 2011.  Connecticut’s program is frozen and they are not admitting any new clients.
 
Acquisitions
 
The Company completed several acquisitions over the past three fiscal years and will continue to actively seek to acquire other quality providers of home health services like our current operations.
 
43





Table of Contents
 
Factors which may affect future acquisition decisions include, but are not limited to, the quality and potential profitability of the business under consideration, potential regulatory limitations and our profitability and ability to finance the transaction.  See Part II, Item 8, Note 12 to the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details regarding these acquisitions.
 
2011 Acquisitions
During 2011, we acquired 9 VN and 38 PC branch locations in Ohio and Pennsylvania.  We funded these acquisitions with cash on hand of $37.1 million and issuance of a $1 million promissory note at 6% interest.
 
2010 Acquisition
During 2010, we acquired one VN branch which expanded our operations in Ohio. The acquisition was funded with cash on hand and a promissory note.
 
2009 Acquisition
During 2009 we acquired 2 VN branch locations which expanded our operations in Florida.  We funded this acquisition by issuing a $1.2 million promissory note at 6% interest and using cash on hand along with our senior credit facility to make cash payment of $4.0 million.
 
Contractual Obligations
 
The following table provides information about the payment dates of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011, excluding current liabilities except for the current portion of long-term debt and additional consideration on acquisitions (in thousands):
 



  

  

2012 

  

2013 

  

2014 

  

2015 

  

2016 

  

Total 

   


Revolving credit facility 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Notes payable 

  

1,200 

  

625 

  

500 

  

— 

  

— 

  

2,325 

   


Operating leases 

  

5,124 

  

3,513 

  

2,130 

  

1,157 

  

528 

  

12,452 

   


Total 

  

$ 

6,324 

  

$ 

4,138 

  

$ 

2,630 

  

$ 

1,157 

  

$ 

528 

  

$ 

14,777 

    
 
Commitments and Contingencies
 
Letters of Credit
 
We have outstanding letters of credit totaling $5.8 million at December 31, 2011, which benefit our third-party insurer/administrators for our self-insurance programs.  The amount of such insurance program letters of credit is subject to negotiation annually upon renewal and may vary in the future based upon such negotiation, our historical claims experience and expected future claims.  It is reasonable to expect that the amount of the letter of credit will increase in the future, however, we are unable to predict to what degree.
 
We currently have no contingent obligations related to acquisition agreements.  However, we periodically seek acquisition candidates and may reasonably be expected to enter into acquisitions in the future.
 
Our commitments and contingencies are also impacted by our general and professional liabilities, pending litigation and health care reform discussed elsewhere in this form 10-K.  Please refer to Part I, Item 1, “Government Regulation”, Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings”, Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview” and Part II, Item 8, “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”.
 
Impact of Inflation
 
We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on income during the past several years.
 
44





Table of Contents
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measure
 
The information provided in some of the tables use certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules.  In accordance with SEC rules, the Company has provided, in the supplemental information and the footnotes to the tables, a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.
 
EBITDA
 
Earnings before interest, income tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) is not a measure of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the US (GAAP).  It should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, or any other measure calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  The items excluded from EBITDA are significant components in understanding and evaluating financial performance and liquidity.  Management routinely calculates and communicates EBITDA and believes that it is useful to investors because it is commonly used as an analytical indicator within our industry to evaluate performance, measure leverage capacity and debt service ability, and to estimate current or prospective enterprise value. EBITDA is also used in certain covenants contained in our credit agreement.
 
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of net income to EBITDA as of December 31 (in thousands):
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net income  

  

$ 

20,802 

  

$ 

30,713 

  

$ 

24,564 

   


Add back:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Interest expense  

  

180 

  

266 

  

803 

   


Income tax expense  

  

13,579 

  

20,678 

  

16,501 

   


Depreciation and amortization  

  

2,816 

  

2,913 

  

2,385 

   


Amortization of stock-based compensation  

  

1,422 

  

1,505 

  

1,371 

   


Earnings before interest, income taxes,   depreciation and amortization (EBITDA)  

  

$ 

38,799 

  

$ 

56,075 

  

$ 

45,624 

    
 
ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
Derivative Instruments
 
We do not use derivative instruments.
 
Market Risk of Financial Instruments
 
Our primary market risk exposure with regard to financial instruments is to changes in interest rates.
 
At December 31, 2011, the Company had no outstanding amounts on its revolving credit facility and, therefore, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in short-term interest rates would not have impacted our annual pre-tax earnings.
 
45





Table of Contents
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In thousands, except per share data)
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net service revenues  

  

$ 

339,853 

  

$ 

335,295 

  

$ 

295,982 

   


Cost of service revenues (excluding depreciation   and amortization)  

  

167,058 

  

152,545 

  

137,128 

   


Gross margin  

  

172,795 

  

182,750 

  

158,854 

   


General and administrative expenses:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Salaries and benefits  

  

97,514 

  

91,309 

  

81,371 

   


Other  

  

40,720 

  

39,784 

  

35,615 

   


Total general and administrative expenses  

  

138,234 

  

131,093 

  

116,986 

   


Operating income  

  

34,561 

  

51,657 

  

41,868 

   


Interest expense, net  

  

(180 

) 

(266 

) 

(803 

)  


Income before income taxes  

  

34,381 

  

51,391 

  

41,065 

   


Income tax expense  

  

(13,579 

) 

(20,678 

) 

(16,501 

)  


Net income  

  

$ 

20,802 

  

$ 

30,713 

  

$ 

24,564 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Per share amounts-basic:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average shares outstanding  

  

9,278 

  

9,123 

  

8,372 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2.24 

  

$ 

3.37 

  

$ 

2.93 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Per share amounts-diluted:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average shares outstanding  

  

9,360 

  

9,352 

  

8,589 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

2.22 

  

$ 

3.28 

  

$ 

2.86 

    
 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
46





Table of Contents
 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
 



  

  

As of December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


ASSETS 

  

  

  

  

   


CURRENT ASSETS:  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash and cash equivalents  

  

$ 

33,693 

  

$ 

47,943 

   


Accounts receivable - net  

  

45,166 

  

39,772 

   


Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

  

6,437 

  

3,513 

   


Deferred tax assets  

  

7,470 

  

8,521 

   


TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS  

  

92,766 

  

99,749 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT - NET  

  

5,229 

  

4,514 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


GOODWILL  

  

132,653 

  

101,060 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS  

  

19,709 

  

14,285 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


OTHER ASSETS  

  

465 

  

519 

   


TOTAL ASSETS  

  

$ 

250,822 

  

$ 

220,127 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


LIABILITIES   AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 

  

  

  

  

   


CURRENT LIABILITIES:  

  

  

  

  

   


Accounts payable  

  

$ 

6,489 

  

$ 

5,424 

   


Accrued other liabilities  

  

21,129 

  

20,529 

   


Current portion - capital leases and notes payable    

  

1,200 

  

1,695 

   


TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES  

  

28,818 

  

27,648 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


LONG-TERM LIABILITIES:  

  

  

  

  

   


Notes payable  

  

1,125 

  

1,325 

   


Deferred tax liabilities  

  

13,631 

  

8,763 

   


Other liabilities  

  

951 

  

223 

   


TOTAL LONG-TERM LIABILITIES  

  

15,707 

  

10,311 

   


TOTAL LIABILITIES  

  

44,525 

  

37,959 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY:  

  

  

  

  

   


Preferred stock, par value $0.05; authorized 2,000   shares; none issued or outstanding  

  

— 

  

— 

   


Common stock, par value $0.10; authorized 25,000;   9,381 and 9,243 issued and outstanding  

  

938 

  

924 

   


Treasury stock, at cost, 13 and 4 shares  

  

(431 

) 

(139 

)  


Additional paid-in capital  

  

100,678 

  

97,073 

   


Retained earnings  

  

105,112 

  

84,310 

   


TOTAL STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

  

206,297 

  

182,168 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY  

  

$ 

250,822 

  

$ 

220,127 

    
 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
47





Table of Contents
 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(In thousands)
 



  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

Additional 

  

  

  

Total 

   


  

  

Common Stock 

  

Treasury Stock 

  

Paid-in 

  

Retained 

  

Stockholders’ 

   


  

  

Shares 

  

Amount 

  

Shares 

  

Amount 

  

Capital 

  

Earnings 

  

Equity 

   


Balance, December 31, 2008 

  

8,116 

  

$ 

811 

  

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

64,938 

  

$ 

29,033 

  

$ 

94,783 

   


Options exercised, net of shares surrendered or   withheld 

  

20 

  

2 

  

— 

  

— 

  

98 

  

— 

  

100 

   


Restricted stock awards and stock-based   compensation 

  

47 

  

5 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,366 

  

— 

  

1,371 

   


Tax benefit from exercise of non- qualified stock   options 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

203 

  

— 

  

203 

   


Stock offering 

  

968 

  

97 

  

— 

  

— 

  

27,860 

  

— 

  

27,957 

   


Net income 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

24,564 

  

24,564 

   


Balance, December 31, 2009 

  

9,151 

  

$ 

915 

  

— 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

94,465 

  

$ 

53,597 

  

$ 

148,977 

   


Options exercised, net of shares surrendered or   withheld 

  

80 

  

8 

  

(4 

) 

(139 

) 

(129 

) 

— 

  

(260 

)  


Restricted stock awards and stock-based   compensation 

  

12 

  

1 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,504 

  

— 

  

1,505 

   


Tax benefit from exercise of non- qualified stock   options 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,233 

  

— 

  

1,233 

   


Net income 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

30,713 

  

30,713 

   


Balance, December 31, 2010 

  

9,243 

  

$ 

924 

  

(4 

) 

$ 

(139 

) 

$ 

97,073 

  

$ 

84,310 

  

$ 

182,168 

   


Stock award maturities, net of shares surrendered   or withheld 

  

125 

  

13 

  

(9 

) 

(292 

) 

632 

  

— 

  

353 

   


Restricted stock awards and stock-based   compensation 

  

13 

  

1 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,422 

  

— 

  

1,423 

   


Tax benefit from stock-based compensation 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

1,551 

  

— 

  

1,551 

   


Net income 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

20,802 

  

20,802 

   


Balance, December 31, 2011 

  

9,381 

  

$ 

938 

  

(13 

) 

(431 

) 

$ 

100,678 

  

$ 

105,112 

  

$ 

206,297 

    
 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
48





Table of Contents
 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands) 
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Cash flows from operating activities:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income  

  

$ 

20,802 

  

$ 

30,713 

  

$ 

24,564 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Adjustments to reconcile income to net cash   provided by operating activities:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Depreciation and amortization  

  

2,816 

  

2,913 

  

2,385 

   


Provision for uncollectible accounts  

  

2,355 

  

3,691 

  

3,762 

   


Stock-based compensation  

  

1,422 

  

1,505 

  

1,371 

   


Deferred income taxes  

  

4,371 

  

2,770 

  

695 

   


  

  

31,766 

  

41,592 

  

32,777 

   


Change in certain net assets and liabilities, net   of the effects of acquisitions:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


(Increase) decrease in:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Accounts receivable  

  

(1,630 

) 

(8,255 

) 

(3,958 

)  


Prepaid expenses and other current assets  

  

1,163 

  

(1,184 

) 

570 

   


Other assets  

  

55 

  

68 

  

(69 

)  


(Decrease) increase in:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Accounts payable and accrued expenses  

  

(5,418 

) 

2,548 

  

(2,220 

)  


Net cash provided by operating activities  

  

25,936 

  

34,769 

  

27,100 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash flows from investing activities:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital expenditures  

  

(2,889 

) 

(2,607 

) 

(2,134 

)  


Acquisitions, net of cash acquired  

  

(37,164 

) 

(2,800 

) 

(6,510 

)  


Net cash used in investing activities  

  

(40,053 

) 

(5,407 

) 

(8,644 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash flows from financing activities:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net revolving credit facility repayments  

  

— 

  

— 

  

(23,998 

)  


Proceeds from stock option exercises  

  

292 

  

380 

  

113 

   


Purchase of common stock in connection with stock   options  

  

(440 

) 

(640 

) 

(14 

)  


Tax benefit from non-qualified stock option   exercises  

  

1,610 

  

1,233 

  

203 

   


Proceeds from stock offering, net  

  

— 

  

— 

  

27,957 

   


Principal payments on capital leases and notes   payable  

  

(1,595 

) 

(1,781 

) 

(4,510 

)  


Net cash used in financing activities  

  

(133 

) 

(808 

) 

(249 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash   equivalents  

  

(14,250 

) 

28,554 

  

18,207 

   


Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period  

  

47,943 

  

19,389 

  

1,182 

   


Cash and cash equivalents at end of period  

  

$ 

33,693 

  

$ 

47,943 

  

$ 

19,389 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Supplemental disclosures of cash   flow information:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Cash payment of interest, net of amounts   capitalized  

  

$ 

180 

  

$ 

266 

  

$ 

1,133 

   


Cash payment of taxes  

  

$ 

8,778 

  

$ 

17,954 

  

$ 

14,175 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Summary of non-cash investing and   financing activities:  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Settlement of Directors Deferred Compensation Plan    

  

$ 

501 

  

$ 

— 

  

$ 

— 

   


Acquisitions funded by notes payable  

  

$ 

1,000 

  

$ 

125 

  

$ 

1,200 

    
 
The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these financial statements.
 
49





Table of Contents
 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unless otherwise indicated all dollar and share amounts are in thousands)
 
NOTE 1 - SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Consolidation and Description Of Business
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Almost Family, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively “Almost Family” or the “Company”). The Company is a leading, regionally focused provider of home health services and has service locations in Florida, Kentucky, Ohio, Connecticut, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Missouri, Alabama, Illinois, Pennsylvania and Indiana (in order of revenue significance).
 
The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1985.  Through a predecessor that merged into the Company in 1991, we have been providing health care services, primarily home health care, since 1976.  All material intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
Uninsured deposits at December 31, 2011, and 2010 were approximately $32,436 and $47,500, respectively.  These amounts have been deposited with national financial institutions.
 
Property and Equipment
 
Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives (generally two to ten years for medical and office equipment and three years for internally developed software).  Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the terms of the respective leases (generally three to ten years).
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets acquired are stated at fair value at the date of acquisition.  Subsequent to acquisition, the Company conducts annual reviews for impairment, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred, under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other.  The Company has completed its most recent annual impairment tests as of December 31, 2011 and has determined that no impairment existed.
 
Other intangible assets consist of licenses, certificates of need, non-compete agreements, and trade names.  Licenses, certificates of need and trade names have indefinite lives and are not amortized.  Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, such as the cost of non-compete agreements for which their estimated useful life is usually 3 years, beginning after the earn-out period, if any.
 
50





Table of Contents
 
The following table summarizes the activity related to our goodwill and other intangible assets for 2011 and 2010
 



  

  

  

  

Other Intangible Assets 

   


  

  

  

  

Certificates of 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

Need and 

  

  

  

Non-compete 

  

  

   


  

  

Goodwill 

  

Licenses 

  

Trade Name 

  

 Agreements 

  

Total 

   


Balances at 12-31-09 

  

$ 

99,333 

  

$ 

6,591 

  

$ 

7,381 

  

$ 

366 

  

$ 

14,338 

   


Additions 

  

1,727 

  

250 

  

— 

  

— 

  

250 

   


Amortization 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(303 

) 

(303 

)  


Balances at 12-31-10 

  

$ 

101,060 

  

$ 

6,841 

  

$ 

7,381 

  

$ 

63 

  

$ 

14,285 

   


Additions 

  

31,593 

  

2,250 

  

3,040 

  

230 

  

5,520 

   


Amortization 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

  

(96 

) 

(96 

)  


Balances at 12-31-11 

  

$ 

132,653 

  

$ 

9,091 

  

$ 

10,421 

  

$ 

197 

  

$ 

19,709 

    
 
At December 31, 2011, the Visiting Nurse (VN) segment includes $102,207, $8,481, $7,701 and $34, while the Personal Care (PC) segment includes $30,447, $610, $2,720 and $163 of total goodwill, certificates of need and licenses, trade names and non-compete agreements, respectively.  At December 31, 2010, $97,233 and $3,827 of total goodwill relates to the VN segment and the PC segment, while all other intangible assets relate to the VN segment. Purchase price allocations for 2011 acquisitions are preliminary as discussed in Note 12.
 
Capitalization Policies
 
Maintenance, repairs and minor replacements are charged to expense as incurred.  Major renovations and replacements are capitalized to appropriate property and equipment accounts.  Upon sale or retirement of property, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the accounts and the related gain or loss is recognized in income.
 
The Company capitalizes the cost of internally developed computer software for the Company’s own use.  Software development costs of approximately $535, $513 and $293 were capitalized in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Insurance Programs
 
The Company bears significant insurance risk under its large-deductible workers’ compensation insurance program and its self-insured employee health program.  Under the workers’ compensation insurance program, the Company bears risk up to $400 per incident, after which stop-loss coverage is maintained.  The Company purchases stop-loss insurance for the employee health plan that places a specific limit, generally $100, on its exposure for any individual covered life.
 
Malpractice and general patient liability claims for incidents which may give rise to litigation have been asserted against the Company by various claimants.  The claims are in various stages of processing and some may ultimately be brought to trial.  The Company is aware of incidents that have occurred through December 31, 2011 that may result in the assertion of additional claims.  The Company currently carries professional and general liability insurance coverage (on a claims made basis) for this exposure with no deductible.  The Company also carries D&O coverage (also on a claims made basis) for potential claims against our directors and officers, including securities actions, with deductibles ranging from $100 to $250 per claim.
 
The Company records estimated liabilities for its insurance programs based on information provided by the third-party plan administrators, historical claims experience, the life cycle of claims, expected costs of claims incurred but not paid, and expected costs to settle unpaid claims.  The Company monitors its estimated insurance-related liabilities and recoveries, if any, on a monthly basis and as required by ASU No. 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries, records amounts due under insurance policies in other current assets, while recording the estimated carrier liability in other current liabilities in the December 31, 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  As facts change, it may become necessary to make adjustments that could be material to the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.
 
51





Table of Contents
 
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns.  Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the Company’s book and tax bases of assets and liabilities and tax carry-forwards using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.
 
Seasonality
 
Our VN segment operations located in Florida (which generated approximately 43% of that segment’s revenues in 2011) normally experience higher admissions during the first quarter and lower admissions during the third quarter than in the other quarters due to seasonal population fluctuations.
 
Net Service Revenues
 
The Company is paid for its services primarily by federal and state third-party reimbursement programs, commercial insurance companies, and patients. Revenues are recorded at established rates in the period during which the services are rendered.  Appropriate allowances to give recognition to third party payment arrangements are recorded when the services are rendered.
 
Approximately 77% of the Company’s net service revenues are derived from the Medicare program.  Net service revenues are recorded under the Medicare payment program (“PPS”) based on a 60-day episode payment rate that is subject to adjustment based on certain variables including, but not limited to: (a) an outlier payment if our patient’s care was unusually costly (capped at 10% of total reimbursement); (b) a low utilization payment adjustment (“LUPA”) if the number of visits was fewer than five; (c) a partial payment if a patient is transferred to another provider or received from another provider before completing the episode; (d) a payment adjustment based upon the level of therapy services required (thresholds set at 6, 14 and 20 visits); (e) the number of episodes of care provided to a patient; (f) changes in the base episode payments established by the Medicare Program; and (g) adjustments to the base episode payments for case mix and geographic wages.
 
At the beginning of each Medicare episode the Company calculates an estimate of the amount of expected reimbursement based on the variables outlined above and recognizes Medicare revenue on an episode-by-episode basis during the course of each episode over its expected number of visits.  Over the course of each episode, as changes in the variables become known, adjustments are calculated and recorded as needed to reflect changes in expectations for that episode from those established at the start of the 60 day period until its ultimate outcome at the end of the 60 day period is known.
 
Substantially all remaining revenues are earned on a per visit, hour or unit basis (as opposed to episodic).  For all services provided, the Company uses either payor-specific or patient-specific fee schedules for the recording of revenues at the amounts actually expected to be received.
 
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are extremely complex and subject to interpretation.  It is common for issues to arise related to: 1) medical coding, particularly with respect to Medicare, 2) patient eligibility, particularly related to Medicaid, and 3) other reasons unrelated to credit risk, all of which may result in adjustments to recorded revenue amounts.  The Company continuously evaluates the potential for revenue adjustments and when appropriate provides allowances for losses based upon the best available information.  There is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded estimates could change by material amounts in the near term.
 
52





Table of Contents
 
Revenue and Receivable Concentrations
 
The following table sets forth the percent of the Company’s revenues generated from Medicare, state Medicaid programs and other payors for the year ended December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Medicare 

  

77.1 

% 

80.9 

% 

77.8 

%  


Medicaid & other government programs: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Ohio 

  

8.3 

% 

4.1 

% 

4.4 

%  


Connecticut 

  

6.1 

% 

6.0 

% 

7.5 

%  


Kentucky 

  

2.8 

% 

3.1 

% 

3.1 

%  


Florida 

  

0.6 

% 

0.7 

% 

0.6 

%  


Others 

  

0.3 

% 

0.6 

% 

1.0 

%  


Subtotal 

  

18.1 

% 

14.5 

% 

16.6 

%  


All other payors 

  

4.8 

% 

4.6 

% 

5.6 

%  


Total 

  

100.0 

% 

100.0 

% 

100.0 

%   
 
Concentrations in the Company’s accounts receivable were as follows as of December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

Amount 

  

Percent 

  

Amount 

  

Percent 

   


Medicare 

  

$ 

32,150 

  

58.8 

% 

$ 

33,480 

  

65.8 

%  


Medicaid & other government programs: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Ohio 

  

7,828 

  

14.3 

% 

1,853 

  

3.6 

%  


Connecticut 

  

4,730 

  

8.7 

% 

5,327 

  

10.5 

%  


Kentucky 

  

3,387 

  

6.2 

% 

4,053 

  

8.0 

%  


Others 

  

1,115 

  

2.0 

% 

1,383 

  

2.7 

%  


Subtotal 

  

17,060 

  

31.2 

% 

12,616 

  

24.8 

%  


All other payors 

  

5,433 

  

10.0 

% 

4,824 

  

9.5 

%  


Subtotal 

  

54,642 

  

100.0 

% 

50,920 

  

100.0 

%  


Third party payable 

  

(2,812 

) 

  

  

(3,623 

) 

  

   


Allowance for uncollectible accounts 

  

(6,664 

) 

  

  

(7,525 

) 

  

   


Total 

  

$ 

45,166 

  

  

  

$ 

39,772 

  

  

    
 
At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had $2,812 and $3,623 of payables outstanding primarily related to filed or estimated cost reports with the Kentucky Medicaid program.  Medicare accounts receivable at December 31, 2011 are reduced by unbillable amounts pertaining to the new face-to-face regulation which was effective April 1, 2011, and outlier payments exceeding the 10% reimbursement cap implemented January 1, 2010.  As a result of these regulations, the Company’s December 31, 2011 and 2010 accounts receivable, net includes contractual allowances of $1,555 and $275, respectively.
 
The ability of payors to meet their obligations depends upon their financial stability, future legislation and regulatory actions.  The Company does not believe there are any significant credit risks associated with receivables from Federal and state third-party reimbursement programs. The allowance for uncollectible accounts principally consists of management’s estimate of amounts that may prove uncollectible for coverage, eligibility and technical reasons.
 
53





Table of Contents
 
Payor Mix Concentrations and Related Aging of Accounts Receivable
 
The approximate breakdown by payor classification as a percent of total accounts receivable, net of contractual allowances, if any, at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is set forth in the following tables:
 



  

  

2011 

   


Payor 

  

0-90 

  

91-180 

  

181-365 

  

>1 yr. 

  

Total 

   


Medicare 

  

41 

% 

12 

% 

4 

% 

1 

% 

58 

%  


Medicaid & Government 

  

20 

% 

4 

% 

3 

% 

5 

% 

32 

%  


Self Pay 

  

2 

% 

0 

% 

0 

% 

1 

% 

3 

%  


Insurance 

  

4 

% 

1 

% 

1 

% 

1 

% 

7 

%  


Total 

  

67 

% 

17 

% 

8 

% 

8 

% 

100 

%   
 



  

  

2010 

   


Payor 

  

0-90 

  

91-180 

  

181-365 

  

>1 yr. 

  

Total 

   


Medicare 

  

46 

% 

12 

% 

3 

% 

4 

% 

65 

%  


Medicaid & Government 

  

13 

% 

4 

% 

6 

% 

3 

% 

26 

%  


Self Pay 

  

1 

% 

0 

% 

0 

% 

1 

% 

2 

%  


Insurance 

  

4 

% 

1 

% 

1 

% 

1 

% 

7 

%  


Total 

  

64 

% 

17 

% 

10 

% 

9 

% 

100 

%   
 
Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts by Payor Mix and Related Aging
 
The Company records an estimated allowance for uncollectible accounts by applying estimated bad debt percentages to its accounts receivable aging.  The percentages to be applied by payor type are based on the Company’s historical collection and loss experience.  The Company’s effective allowances for uncollectible accounts as a percent of accounts receivable were as follows at December 31, 2011 and 2010:
 



  

  

2011 

   


Payor 

  

0-90 

  

91-180 

  

181-365 

  

>1 yr. 

  

>2 yrs. 

   


Medicare 

  

3 

% 

9 

% 

29 

% 

100 

% 

100 

%  


Medicaid & Government 

  

1 

% 

7 

% 

20 

% 

89 

% 

100 

%  


Self Pay 

  

1 

% 

5 

% 

18 

% 

86 

% 

100 

%  


Insurance 

  

2 

% 

9 

% 

27 

% 

95 

% 

100 

%  


Total 

  

3 

% 

9 

% 

25 

% 

91 

% 

100 

%   
 



  

  

2010 

   


Payor 

  

0-90 

  

91-180 

  

181-365 

  

>1 yr. 

  

>2 yrs. 

   


Medicare 

  

3 

% 

9 

% 

32 

% 

100 

% 

100 

%  


Medicaid & Government 

  

2 

% 

8 

% 

24 

% 

83 

% 

100 

%  


Self Pay 

  

1 

% 

7 

% 

50 

% 

81 

% 

100 

%  


Insurance 

  

3 

% 

9 

% 

47 

% 

98 

% 

100 

%  


Total 

  

3 

% 

9 

% 

30 

% 

93 

% 

100 

%   
 
The Company’s allowance for uncollectible accounts at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $6,664 and $7,525, respectively.
 
54





Table of Contents
 
Net Income Per Share
 
Net income per share is presented as a unit of basic shares outstanding and diluted shares outstanding.  Diluted shares outstanding is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares and common equivalent shares outstanding. Common equivalent shares result from dilutive stock options and unvested restricted shares.  The following table is a reconciliation of basic to diluted shares used in the earnings per share calculation for the year ended December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Basic weighted average outstanding shares 

  

9,278 

  

9,123 

  

8,372 

   


Dilutive effect of outstanding compensation awards 

  

82 

  

229 

  

217 

   


Diluted weighted average outstanding shares 

  

9,360 

  

9,352 

  

8,589 

    
 
The assumed conversions to common stock of 125, 26, and zero of the Company’s outstanding stock options were excluded from the diluted EPS computation in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, because these items, on an individual basis, have an anti-dilutive effect on diluted EPS.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Financial Statement Reclassifications
 
Certain prior period amounts and data have been reclassified in the financial statements and related notes in order to conform to the 2011 presentation.  Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported net income.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
 
Stock options and restricted stock are granted under various stock compensation programs to employees and independent directors.  The Company accounts for such grants in accordance with ASC Topic 718, Compensation — Stock Compensation and amortizes the fair value of awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods.
 
Accounting for Leases
 
The Company accounts for operating leases using the straight-line rents method, which amortizes contracted total rents due evenly over the lease term.
 
Advertising Costs
 
The Company expenses the costs of advertising as incurred.  Advertising expense was $370, $425 and $364 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
The Company follows the guidance in ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment, and when appropriate, reclassifies operating units closed, sold, or held for sale out of continuing operations and into discontinued operations for all periods presented.  During 2011, the Company reclassified operating results related to its closed Boston Personal Care business unit into discontinued operations.  For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, net service revenues were reduced by approximately $1,634 and $2,761, respectively and net income was reduced by $131 and increased by $177, respectively.  This reclassification did not significantly impact net service revenue or net income for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Because this reclassification had no effect on diluted earnings per share for any period presented, income from discontinued operations is not presented separately on the face of the consolidated statements of income.
 
55





Table of Contents
 
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2011-08, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (Topic 350) which will amend current guidance to allow companies to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more-likely-than-not that goodwill might be impaired and whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test required under current accounting standards. ASU 2011-08 is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2012, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of ASU 2011-08 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 
In July 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-07, Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation and Disclosure of Patient Service Revenue, Provision for Bad Debts, and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts for Certain Health Care Entities.  Under ASU 2011-07, only health care organizations (HCOs) that do not assess the collectability of a receivable before recognizing revenue will present their provision for bad debt related to patient service revenue as a deduction from revenue on the face of the statement of operations.  ASU 2011-07 also requires and expands qualitative and quantitative disclosures about changes in the allowance.  For certain HCOs, the guidance may result in the provision for bad debts being presented in two separate lines, a contra-revenue line for bad debts related to patient services and a bad debts line for bad debts related to all other sources of income.  ASU 2011-07 is effective for the Company in the first quarter of 2012.  The amendments to the presentation of the provision for bad debts related to patient service revenue in the statement of operations are applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented, while required disclosures are provided prospectively.  The Company is still evaluating the provisions of ASU 2011-07.  However, the adoption of this standard will not impact net income and is not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
 
In August 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-24, Health Care Entities (Topic 954): Presentation of Insurance Claims and Related Insurance Recoveries.  Under ASU 2010-24, net presentation of insurance recoveries against a related claim liability is not permitted for health care entities.  ASU 2010-24 was effective for the Company January 1, 2011.  The adoption of ASU 2010-24 increased prepaid expenses and other current assets and accrued other liabilities by $2,892 and did not impact the statements of operations or cash flows.
 
NOTE 2 - ACCRUED LIABILITIES
 
Accrued liabilities consist of the following as of December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Wages and employee benefits 

  

$ 

9,028 

  

$ 

10,554 

   


Insurance accruals 

  

9,711 

  

5,850 

   


Accrued taxes 

  

42 

  

183 

   


Accrued professional fees and other 

  

2,348 

  

3,942 

   


  

  

$ 

21,129 

  

$ 

20,529 

    
 
NOTE 3 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, NET
 
Property and equipment, net, including equipment under capital leases, if any, consist of the following as of December 31:
 
56





Table of Contents
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Leasehold improvements 

  

$ 

796 

  

$ 

725 

   


Medical equipment 

  

537 

  

556 

   


Computer equipment and software 

  

11,098 

  

10,427 

   


Office and other equipment 

  

3,088 

  

2,594 

   


  

  

15,519 

  

14,302 

   


Less accumulated depreciation 

  

(10,290 

) 

(9,788 

)  


  

  

$ 

5,229 

  

$ 

4,514 

    
 
Depreciation and amortization expense (including amortization of assets held under capital leases, if any) is recorded in general and administrative expenses - other and was $2,522, $2,396 and $1,903 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
NOTE 4 - REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY
 
At December 31, 2011, the Company had a $125 million senior secured revolving credit facility with JP Morgan Chase Bank, NA, as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, as Syndication Agent and certain other lenders.  The facility consists of a $125 million credit line with a maturity date of December 2, 2015 and an “accordion” feature providing for potential future expansion of the facility to $175 million.  Borrowings (other than letters of credit) under the credit facility are at either the bank’s prime rate plus a margin (ranging from 1.25% to 2.25%, currently 1.25%) or LIBOR plus a margin (ranging from 2.25% to 3.25%, currently 2.25%).  The margin for prime rate or LIBOR borrowings is determined by the Company’s leverage.  Borrowings under the Facility are secured by a first priority perfected security interest in all tangible and intangible assets of the Company, and all existing and future direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Company, as guarantors.
 
The weighted average prime rate-based interest rates were 4.50% and 3.33% for the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The weighted average LIBOR rate was 2.59% and 1.98% for 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The Company pays a commitment fee quarterly of 0.30% to 0.50% on the average daily unused facility balance based on leverage. Borrowings are subject to various covenants including a multiple of 3.0 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). “EBITDA” may include “Acquired EBITDA” from proforma acquisitions pursuant to a calculation rider, up to 50% of “Adjusted EBITDA”, as defined. Borrowings under the facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, the formula permitted all $125 million to be used, of which no amounts were outstanding. The Company has irrevocable letters of credit totaling $5.8 million outstanding in connection with its self-insurance programs. Thus, a total of $119.2 million was available for use at December 31, 2011. The Facility is subject to various financial covenants. As of December 31, 2011, the Company was in compliance with the covenants. Under the most restrictive of its covenants, the Company was required to maintain minimum net worth of at least $147.9 million at December 31, 2011.  At such date, the Company’s net worth was approximately $206.3 million.
 
NOTE 5 - FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
 
The Company’s financial instruments consist of cash, accounts receivable, payables and debt instruments.  Due to their short-term nature, the book values of cash, accounts receivable and payables are considered representative of their respective fair values.  The fair value of the Company’s debt instruments approximates their carrying values as substantially all of such debt instruments have rates which fluctuate with changes in market rates.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company does not have any assets or liabilities carried at fair value that are measured on a recurring basis.
 
NOTE 6 - INCOME TAXES
 
The provision for income taxes consists of the following as of December 31:
 
57





Table of Contents
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Federal - current 

  

$ 

7,833 

  

$ 

14,970 

  

$ 

13,208 

   


State and local - current 

  

1,375 

  

2,938 

  

2,570 

   


Deferred 

  

4,371 

  

2,770 

  

724 

   


  

  

$ 

13,579 

  

$ 

20,678 

  

$ 

16,502 

    
 
A reconciliation of the statutory to the effective rate of the Company is as follows as of December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Tax provision using statutory rate 

  

35.0 

% 

35.0 

% 

35.0 

%  


State and local taxes, net of Federal benefit 

  

3.9 

% 

4.3 

% 

7.3 

%  


Valuation allowance 

  

0.0 

% 

0.3 

% 

-4.2 

%  


Other, net 

  

0.6 

% 

0.6 

% 

2.1 

%  


Tax provision for continuing operations 

  

39.5 

% 

40.2 

% 

40.2 

%   
 
The Company has provided a valuation allowance against certain net deferred tax assets based upon management’s estimation of realizability of those assets through future taxable income.  This valuation allowance was based in large part on the Company’s history of generating operating income or losses in individual tax locales and expectations for the future.  The Company’s ability to generate the expected amounts of taxable income from future operations to realize its recorded net deferred tax assets is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive pressures on revenues and margins and legislation and regulation at all levels of government.  There can be no assurances that the Company will meet its expectations of future taxable income.  However, management has considered the above factors in reaching its conclusion that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be sufficient to realize the deferred tax assets (net of valuation allowance) as of December 31, 2011.
 
During 2011, the valuation allowance increased by $0.02 million, of which $64 was an increase due to a change in expected realizability of deferred tax assets for states operating loss carry-forwards.  The change was primarily generated by the utilization and expiration of state net operating loss carry-forwards upon which a valuation allowance had been previously placed on the related deferred tax assets.
 
The principal tax carry-forwards and temporary differences were as follows as of December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


Deferred tax assets 

  

  

  

  

   


Non-deductible reserves and allowances 

  

$ 

5,376 

  

$ 

6,647 

   


Insurance accruals 

  

2,415 

  

2,113 

   


Net operating loss carryforwards 

  

1,254 

  

1,812 

   


  

  

9,045 

  

10,572 

   


Valuation allowance 

  

(1,129 

) 

(1,113 

)  


Deferred tax assets 

  

7,916 

  

9,459 

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


Deferred tax liabilities 

  

  

  

  

   


Intangibles 

  

(12,904 

) 

(8,707 

)  


Accelerated depreciation 

  

(1,172 

) 

(994 

)  


Deferred tax liabilities 

  

(14,076 

) 

(9,701 

)  


Net deferred tax liabilities 

  

$ 

(6,160 

) 

$ 

(242 

)  


  

  

  

  

  

   


Deferred tax (liabilities) assets are reflected in   the accompanying balance sheet as: 

  

  

  

  

   


Current assets 

  

7,470 

  

8,521 

   


Long-term liabilities 

  

(13,630 

) 

(8,763 

)  


Net deferred tax liabilities 

  

$ 

(6,160 

) 

$ 

(242 

)   
 
The Company had book goodwill of $56.9 million and $41.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which was not deductible for tax purposes.
 
58





Table of Contents
 
State operating loss carry-forwards totaling $23.4 million at December 31, 2011 are being carried forward in jurisdictions where we are permitted to use tax losses from prior periods to reduce future taxable income.  If not used to offset future taxable income, these losses will expire between 2012 and 2031.  Due to uncertainty regarding our ability to use some of the carry-forwards, a valuation allowance has been established on $21.3 million of state net operating loss carry-forwards.  Based on our historical record of producing taxable income and expectations for the future, we have concluded that future operating income will be sufficient to give rise to taxable income sufficient to utilize the remaining state net operating loss carry-forwards.
 
The Company concluded that there are no significant uncertain tax positions requiring recognition in its financial statements.  The evaluation was performed for the tax years ended December 31, 2005, through 2011.  For federal tax purposes, the Company is currently subject to examinations for tax years after 2007, while for state purposes, tax years after 2005 are subject to examination, depending on the specific state rules and regulations.  The Internal Revenue Service has completed its examination of the tax year ended December 31, 2009.
 
The Company may from time to time be assessed interest and penalties by major tax jurisdictions, although any such assessments historically have been minimal and immaterial to its financial results. Assessments for interest and/or penalties are classified in the financial statements as general and administrative - other.
 
NOTE 7 - STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
 
Employee Stock Option Plans
 
The Company has a 2000 Employee Stock Option Plan which initially provided for options to purchase up to 1,000 shares of the Company’s common stock to key employees, officers and directors.  The Board of Directors determines the amount and terms of the options, which cannot exceed ten years.  At December 31, 2011, options for 136 shares had been granted and were outstanding under this plan.  There are no shares available for future grant.
 
The Company has a 2007 Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan which provides for stock awards up to 500 shares of the Company’s common stock to employees, non-employee directors or independent contractors, with a maximum number of full value restricted share awards up to 200.  The Board of Directors determines the amount and terms of the options, which cannot exceed ten years.  As of December 31, 2011, options for 156 shares had been granted and were outstanding under this plan. In addition, 106 restricted shares had been awarded.  Shares available for future grant amounted to 185 shares at December 31, 2011.
 
Changes in option shares outstanding are summarized as follows:
 



  

  

Shares 

  

Wtd. Avg.   Ex. Price 

   


December 31, 2008 

  

374 

  

$ 

14.24 

   


Granted 

  

85 

  

35.14 

   


Exercised 

  

(20 

) 

5.59 

   


Forfeited 

  

(9 

) 

(20.05 

)  


December 31, 2009 

  

430 

  

$ 

18.87 

   


Granted 

  

2 

  

31.91 

   


Exercised 

  

(95 

) 

5.44 

   


Forfeited 

  

(23 

) 

(27.59 

)  


December 31, 2010 

  

314 

  

$ 

22.39 

   


Granted 

  

32 

  

36.69 

   


Exercised 

  

(38 

) 

10.86 

   


Forfeited 

  

(16 

) 

(28.05 

)  


December 31, 2011 

  

292 

  

$ 

25.15 

    
 
59





Table of Contents
 
The following table details exercisable options and related information for the year ended December 31:
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Exercisable at end of year 

  

219 

  

199 

  

210 

   


Weighted average price 

  

$ 

22.21 

  

$ 

19.59 

  

$ 

10.50 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Weighted average fair value of options granted   during the year 

  

$ 

18.31 

  

$ 

11.08 

  

$ 

17.16 

    
 
The following table details unvested options for the year ended December 31, 2011:
 



  

  

Shares 

  

Wtd. Avg.   Ex. Price 

   


December 31, 2010 

  

113 

  

$ 

27.40 

   


Vested 

  

(64 

) 

(24.21 

)  


Granted 

  

32 

  

36.69 

   


Forfeited 

  

(8 

) 

(29.97 

)  


December 31, 2011 

  

73 

  

$ 

34.02 

    
 
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Monte Carlo option valuation model with suboptimal exercise behavior. The Monte Carlo model places greater emphasis on market evidence and predicts more realistic results because it considers open form information including volatility, employee exercise behaviors and turnover. The following assumptions were used in determining the fair value option awards for 2011:
 



Grant date 

  

Equivalent   interest   rate 

  

Equivalent   volatility 

  

Implied   expected   lives 

   


March, 2011 

  

3.53 

% 

40.00 

% 

8.39 

    
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was $2,047 of total unrecognized compensation cost, after estimated forfeitures, related to unvested share-based compensation granted under the plans.  That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.26 years.  The total fair value of option shares vested was $2,206 and $2,240 during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
The following table summarizes information about stock options at December 31, 2011:
 



  

  

Options Outstanding 

  

Options Exercisable 

   


Range of   Exercise   Price 

  

Shares 

  

Wtd. Avg.   Remaining   Contractual   Life 

  

Wtd. Avg.   Exercise   Price 

  

Shares 

  

Wtd. Avg.   Remaining   Contractual   Life 

  

Wtd. Avg.   Exercise   Price 

   


$4.00-20.01 

  

18 

  

0.31 

  

$ 

4.79 

  

18 

  

1.48 

  

$ 

4.79 

   


$20.01-30.00 

  

167 

  

5.44 

  

$ 

20.28 

  

154 

  

3.26 

  

$ 

20.10 

   


Over $30.00 

  

107 

  

7.81 

  

$ 

36.11 

  

48 

  

7.22 

  

$ 

35.63 

   


$15.00+ 

  

292 

  

6.07 

  

$ 

25.15 

  

220 

  

3.97 

  

$ 

22.21 

    
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2009 ESPP) which will provide employees of the Company and its subsidiaries with an opportunity to participate in the growth of the Company and to further align the interest of the employees with the interests of the Company through the purchase of shares of the Company’s Common Stock.  Under the 2009 ESPP, 300 shares of the Company’s Common Stock have been authorized for issuance.  As of December 31, 2011, all 300 shares remain available.
 
Directors Deferred Compensation Plan
 
The Company had a Non-Employee Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the Deferred Plan) which allowed Directors to elect to receive fees for Board services in the form of shares of the Company’s common stock.  The Deferred Plan authorized 200 shares for such use.  Allocated shares were to be issued to Directors when they cease to be Directors or upon a change in control.  Directors’ fees were expensed as incurred whether paid in cash or
 
60





Table of Contents
 
deferred into the Deferred Plan. The Deferred Plan was terminated as of February 22, 2010 with all shares distributed on February 23, 2011.
 
NOTE 8 - RETIREMENT PLAN
 
The Company administers a 401(k) defined contribution retirement plan for the benefit of the majority of its employees.  Employees may participate in the plan immediately upon employment.  The Company matches contributions in an amount equal to one-quarter of the first 5% of each participant’s contribution to the plan after completion of one year of service with the Company.  401(k) assets are held by an independent trustee, are not assets of the Company, and accordingly are not reflected in the Company’s balance sheets. The Company’s retirement plan expense was approximately $472, $537 and $418 for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
 
NOTE 9 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Operating Leases
 
The Company leases certain real estate, office space, and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases expiring at various dates through 2014 and which contain various renewal and escalation clauses.  Rent expense amounted to approximately $7,700, $6,943 and $6,366 for years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December 31, 2011, minimum rental payments under these leases were as follows:
 



2012 

  

$ 

5,124 

   


2013 

  

3,513 

   


2014 

  

2,130 

   


2015 

  

1,157 

   


2016 

  

528 

   


Total 

  

$ 

12,452 

    
 
Capital Leases and Term Debt
 
The Company had certain assets, primarily computer equipment, under capital leases.  The leases included interest of approximately 10.4% per annum. Capital leases had a term life of three (3) years. Assets held under capital lease were carried at cost of approximately $967 with accumulated depreciation of approximately $779 as of December 31, 2010.  No such amounts remained at December 31, 2011.
 
The Company has four acquisition-related, unsecured notes payable totaling $2.3 million bearing interest at 6% per annum.  At December 31, 2011, future principal payments on the term debt were $1,200, $500, $125, and $500 in June 2012, April 2013, November 2103, and April 2014, respectively.
 
Legal Proceedings
 
The Company is currently, and from time to time, subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary course of its business, including claims for damages for personal injuries.  In the opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of any of these ordinary course pending claims and legal proceedings will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
 
In addition as previously disclosed, the Company has complied with a civil subpoena from the United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General received in December 2009.  The subpoena sought the production of various business records relating to the Company’s visiting nurse operations in Birmingham, Alabama, which were acquired in July 2006.  The Company was advised that the subpoena relates to an investigation arising in the context of a False Claims Act qui tam complaint containing allegations regarding the Company’s Medicare practices.  During 2011 the following developments occurred:  1) a qui tam complaint was filed regarding the Company’s Medicare practices at facilities in Tampa, Florida, which were acquired in October 2007.  This complaint was transferred to the United States District Court in the Northern District of Birmingham, Alabama; 2) the United States filed a motion to extend its intervention deadlines in both cases; 3) the court denied
 
61





Table of Contents
 
the motions; 4) the United States has elected not to intervene at this time however its investigation remains open and it could elect to intervene in the future; and 5) the Court issued an order unsealing the Tampa case, but the Company has not yet been served a copy of the complaint.  The Company is cooperating fully with these investigations.
 
On April 27, 2010, The Wall Street Journal published an article exploring the relationship between the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services home health payment policies and the utilization rates of certain home health agencies.  Following The Wall Street Journal article, on May 12, 2010, the United States Senate Finance Committee (the “Committee”) sent a letter to each of the publicly traded companies mentioned in the article requesting information including Medicare utilization rates for therapy visits.  The Company cooperated fully with the Senate Finance Committee in providing the requested information.  On October 3, 2011, the Committee issued a report on the findings of its inquiry, which found that, among other things, “…none of the documents provided to the Committee by Almost Family show that executives ever pushed therapists to target thresholds or pursue more profitable clinical regimens.”
 
In June 2010, the Company received a notice of investigation and a civil subpoena for documents from the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Company is continuing to cooperate with the investigation.  The Company and its officers and directors have continued to respond to additional document requests from the SEC Staff and the Staff recently took testimony of several officers and directors primarily with respect to their sales of common stock of the Company during May 2010.
 
Four derivative complaints have been filed in Jefferson Circuit Court, Kentucky, against the members of the Company’s board of directors and chief financial officer. All four lawsuits name the Company as a nominal defendant.  All of the complaints refer to The Wall Street Journal article and the subsequent governmental investigations and make various allegations that the individual defendants breached duties owed to the Company in connection with Medicare reimbursements for home therapy visits  On December 15, 2011, counsel for the Plaintiffs in actions filed an amended consolidated complaint repeating the basic allegations and claims set out in the four original derivative complaints.  The suit is titled:  In Re Almost Family, Inc. Shareholder Derivative Litigation.  On February 13, 2012, the independent directors filed a motion to dismiss the complaint because the Plaintiffs failed to make any demand on the Board.  The officer Defendants files a separate motion to dismiss.
 
A fifth derivative complaint titled Richard W. Carey, Derivatively and on Behalf of Almost Family, Inc. v. William B. Yarmuth, Steven B. Bing, Donald G. McClinton, Tyree G. Wilburn, Jonathan D. Goldberg, W. Earl Reed, III and Henry M. Altman, Jr., was filed in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky, 3:11-CV-163-H.  The lawsuit names the Company as a nominal defendant and is substantially duplicative of the derivative complaint pending in the Jefferson Circuit Court  The Court granted the Defendants’ motion to stay the lawsuit pending further order of the Court.
 
Four putative class action lawsuits pending against Almost Family in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky were consolidated into a single class action lawsuit entitled In Re Almost Family Securities Litigation.  The consolidated complaint was filed on March 4, 2011.  The complaint refers to The Wall Street Journal article and the subsequent governmental investigations and alleges that the Company, its chief executive officer and chief financial officer violated federal securities laws.  The Company and its officers filed a motion to dismiss the complaint.  On February 10, 2012, the Court entered an order dismissing the complaint with prejudice.  The time for appeal of the decision has not yet expired.
 
The Company is unable to assess the probable outcome or potential liability, if any, arising from these matters.
 
NOTE 10 - STOCK TRANSACTIONS
 
On August 5, 2009, the Company entered into a Distribution Agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. According to the provisions of this Agreement, the Company could offer and sell from time to time up to 1,600 shares of common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $50 million through J.P. Morgan, as distribution agent.  Sales of stock were made by means of ordinary brokers’ transactions on the Nasdaq Global Select Market at market prices.  During 2009, the Company issued 968 of our shares of common stock for proceeds of $28.0 million pursuant to this Agreement, which terminated June 30, 2010.
 
62





Table of Contents
 
NOTE 11 - SEGMENT DATA
 
The Company has two reportable segments, VN and PC.  Reportable segments have been identified based upon how management has organized the business by services provided to customers and the criteria in ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting.  The Company does not allocate certain corporate expenses to the reportable segments.  These expenses are included in Unallocated below.  The Company evaluates the performance of its business segments based upon operating income. Intercompany transactions between segments are eliminated.
 
The Company’s VN segment provides skilled medical services in patients’ homes largely to enable recipients to reduce or avoid periods of hospitalization and/or nursing home care.  VN Medicare revenues are generated on a per episode basis rather than a fee per visit or day of care.  Approximately 92% of the VN segment revenues are generated from the Medicare program, while the balance is generated from Medicaid and private insurance programs.
 
The Company’s PC segment services are also provided in patients’ homes.  These services (generally provided by paraprofessional staff such as home health aides) are generally of a custodial rather than skilled nature.  PC revenues are generated on an hourly basis.  Approximately 81% of the PC segment revenues are generated from Medicaid and other government programs, while the balance is generated from insurance programs and private pay patients.
 



  

  

Year Ended December 31, 

   


  

  

2011 

  

2010 

  

2009 

   


Net service revenues 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse 

  

$ 

284,509 

  

$ 

294,915 

  

$ 

256,060 

   


Personal Care 

  

55,344 

  

40,380 

  

39,922 

   


  

  

$ 

339,853 

  

$ 

335,295 

  

$ 

295,982 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Operating income 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse 

  

$ 

46,132 

  

$ 

66,316 

  

$ 

53,973 

   


Personal Care 

  

8,382 

  

5,513 

  

5,100 

   


Unallocated 

  

(19,953 

) 

(20,172 

) 

(17,205 

)  


  

  

$ 

34,561 

  

$ 

51,657 

  

$ 

41,868 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Identifiable assets 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse 

  

$ 

153,007 

  

$ 

147,041 

  

$ 

142,364 

   


Personal Care 

  

45,708 

  

15,521 

  

14,897 

   


Unallocated 

  

52,107 

  

57,565 

  

26,128 

   


  

  

$ 

250,822 

  

$ 

220,127 

  

$ 

183,389 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Identifiable liabilities 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse 

  

$ 

12,272 

  

$ 

10,458 

  

$ 

12,048 

   


Personal Care 

  

3,019 

  

2,834 

  

3,375 

   


Unallocated 

  

29,234 

  

24,667 

  

18,989 

   


  

  

$ 

44,525 

  

$ 

37,959 

  

$ 

34,412 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Capital expenditures 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse 

  

$ 

790 

  

$ 

1,815 

  

$ 

884 

   


Personal Care 

  

756 

  

69 

  

52 

   


Unallocated 

  

1,343 

  

723 

  

1,198 

   


  

  

$ 

2,889 

  

$ 

2,607 

  

$ 

2,134 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Depreciation and amortization 

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Visiting Nurse 

  

$ 

1,330 

  

$ 

1,379 

  

$ 

1,076 

   


Personal Care 

  

80 

  

44 

  

30 

   


Unallocated 

  

1,406 

  

1,490 

  

1,279 

   


  

  

$ 

2,816 

  

$ 

2,913 

  

$ 

2,385 

    
 
63





Table of Contents
 
NOTE 12 - ACQUISITIONS
 
Each of the following acquisitions was completed in order to pursue the Company’s strategy of expanding its operations in the eastern United States by expanding its service base and enhancing its position in certain geographic areas as a leading provider of home health services.  The purchase price of each acquisition was determined based on the Company’s analysis of comparable acquisitions and expected cash flows and arms length negotiation with the sellers.  Each of the acquisitions completed was accounted for as a purchase and are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements from the respective acquisition date.  Goodwill recognized from the acquisitions primarily relates to expected contributions of each entity to the overall corporate strategy in addition to synergies and acquired workforce, which are not separable from goodwill.  Except for the Cambridge acquisition, all goodwill and other intangible assets generated in the transactions below are expected to be deductible for tax purposes on a straight-line basis over 15 years.
 
On August 5, 2011 the Company acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of Cambridge Home Health Care Holdings, Inc. (Cambridge) with a cash-free, debt-free balance sheet for an all-cash purchase price of $32.8 million.  Cambridge and its subsidiaries own and operate 37 home health branches with 34 in Ohio and three in western Pennsylvania.  Cambridge’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 reported $38.2 million in revenues of which $33.7 million would be classified in the PC segment and $4.5 million would be classified in the VN segment.
 
The Company is currently in the process of valuing the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for the Cambridge acquisition, to allocate the purchase price to the individual assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  The preliminary allocation of purchase price included in the current period balance sheet is based on the Company’s current best estimate and is subject to revision based on final determination of fair value.  The following table summarizes the Company’s preliminary fair value estimates of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed:
 



Accounts receivable 

  

$ 

5,725 

   


Property,   plant & equipment 

  

269 

   


Other assets 

  

595 

   


Goodwill 

  

27,092 

   


Other intangibles 

  

5,200 

   


Assets acquired 

  

38,881 

   


Liabilities assumed 

  

(6,066 

)  


Net assets acquired 

  

$ 

32,815 

    
 
The Cambridge transaction was a 100% acquisition of stock and accordingly, tax deductible goodwill and identified intangibles is limited to $4.0 million.
 
On April 1, 2011, the Company acquired the assets of a Medicare-certified home health agency in Cincinnati, Ohio with approximately $5 million in annual revenues for $5.3 million in total consideration consisting of cash and a $1 million note payable.  Fair values of assets acquired were primarily related to goodwill and other intangibles, which are fully deductible for tax purposes.
 
On November 2, 2010, the Company acquired for cash and a small note payable the assets of a small Medicare-certified home health agency in Ohio. On June 1, 2009, the Company acquired the assets of the Medicare-certified home health agencies affiliated with Florida-based Central Florida Health Alliance (CFHA), a two-hospital health care system with home health branches in Leesburg and The Villages for a purchase price of $5.2 million, consisting of $4.0 million in cash and a $1.2 million promissory note at 6% interest.  The cash portion of the transaction was funded from borrowings available on the Company’s existing senior credit facility.
 
NOTE 13 - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA— (UNAUDITED)
 
Summarized quarterly financial data are as follows for the years ended December 31:
 
64





Table of Contents
 



  

  

2011 

  

2010 

   


  

  

Dec. 31 

  

Sept. 30 

  

Jun. 30 

  

Mar. 31 

  

Dec. 31 

  

Sept. 30 

  

Jun. 30 

  

Mar. 31 

   


Net service revenues 

  

$ 

89,331 

  

$ 

86,207 

  

$ 

81,721 

  

$ 

82,594 

  

$ 

84,482 

  

$ 

84,379 

  

$ 

85,122 

  

$ 

81,312 

   


Gross margin 

  

44,198 

  

42,862 

  

42,106 

  

43,629 

  

46,191 

  

45,625 

  

46,828 

  

44,106 

   


Net income 

  

$ 

5,305 

  

$ 

4,842 

  

$ 

4,950 

  

$ 

5,705 

  

$ 

6,988 

  

$ 

7,940 

  

$ 

8,342 

  

$ 

7,443 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Average shares outstanding 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic 

  

9,296 

  

9,296 

  

9,284 

  

9,205 

  

9,149 

  

9,143 

  

9,110 

  

9,071 

   


Diluted 

  

9,328 

  

9,346 

  

9,377 

  

9,329 

  

9,363 

  

9,343 

  

9,366 

  

9,326 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Net income per share 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Basic 

  

$ 

0.57 

  

$ 

0.52 

  

$ 

0.53 

  

$ 

0.62 

  

$ 

0.76 

  

$ 

0.87 

  

$ 

0.92 

  

$ 

0.82 

   


Diluted 

  

$ 

0.57 

  

$ 

0.52 

  

$ 

0.53 

  

$ 

0.61 

  

$ 

0.75 

  

$ 

0.85 

  

$ 

0.89 

  

$ 

0.80 

    
 
NOTE 14 - SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
Management has evaluated all events and transactions that occurred after December 31, 2011.  During this period, the Company had no material subsequent events requiring recognition in the consolidated financial statements or any non-recognized subsequent events requiring disclosure.
 
65





Table of Contents
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Almost Family, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 



/s/   Ernst & Young, LLP 

   


   


   


Louisville,   Kentucky  


February 22,   2012   
 
66





Table of Contents
 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
The consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report have been prepared by management that is responsible for their preparation, integrity and fair presentation. The statements have been prepared in accordance with U. S. generally accepted accounting principles, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Further, because of changes in conditions, the effectiveness of an internal control system may vary over time.
 
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), with the exception of the operations of Cambridge Home Health Care Holdings, Inc. acquired in August of 2011, as disclosed in Note 12, which altogether constituted approximately 7.5% and 1.2% of total and net assets, respectively, at December 31, 2011 and 4.6% and 7.0% of revenues and net income, respectively, for the year then ended. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on the criteria described above as of December 31, 2011.
 
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Almost Family, Inc. and on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The reports of Ernst & Young LLP are contained in this Annual Report.
 



/s/   William B. Yarmuth 

  

/s/   C. Steven Guenthner  


William   B. Yarmuth 

C.   Steven Guenthner  


Chairman,   President and Chief Executive Officer 

Senior   Vice President & Chief Financial Officer  


Date:   February 22, 2012 

February 22,   2012   
 
67





Table of Contents
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Almost Family, Inc.
 
We have audited Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control of financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).  Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries’ management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
As indicated in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management’s assessment and conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting did not include the internal controls of Cambridge Home Health Care Holdings, Inc. which is included in the 2011 consolidated financial statements of Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries and constituted 7.5% and 1.2% of total and net assets, respectively, as of December 31, 2011 and 4.6% and 7.0% of revenues and net income, respectively, for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting of Almost Family, Inc. also did not include an evaluation of the internal control over financial reporting of Cambridge Home Health Care Holdings, Inc.
 
In our opinion, Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011 of Almost Family, Inc. and subsidiaries and our report dated February 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 



/s/   Ernst & Young, LLP 

   


Louisville,   Kentucky  


February 22,   2012   
 
68





Table of Contents
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
None.
 
ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
 
Disclosure Controls and Procedures — As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s management, with participation of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e).  Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011.
 
Internal Control — Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have included a report that provides management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.  Management’s report is included in Item 8 of this report under the caption entitled “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting,” and is incorporated herein by reference.  Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.  This attestation report is included in item 8 of this report under the caption entitled “Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting - There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2011, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Almost Family, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
ITEM 9B.  OTHER INFORMATION
 
None.
 
69





Table of Contents
 
PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 
The information required by this Item is set forth in the Registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Commission no later than 120 days after December 31, 2011, except for the information regarding executive officers of the Company.  The information required by this Item contained in such definitive proxy statement is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company’s executive officers.
 



Name 

  

Age 

  

Position with the Company  


William   B. Yarmuth (1) 

  

59 

  

Chairman   of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer  


C.   Steven Guenthner (2) 

  

51 

  

Senior   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  


P.   Todd Lyles (3) 

  

50 

  

Senior   Vice President — Administration  


Anne   T. Liechty (4) 

  

59 

  

Senior   Vice President — VN Operations  


Nancy   G. Ralston (5) 

  

52 

  

Senior   Vice President — VN Operations  


Carla   J. Hengst (6) 

  

56 

  

Vice   President — PC Operations   
 
Executive officers of the Company are elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors with the exception of William B. Yarmuth who has an employment agreement with the Company.  There are no family relationships between any director or executive officer.
 

(1)                                  William B. Yarmuth has been a director of the Company since 1991, when the Company acquired National Health Industries (“National”), where Mr. Yarmuth was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  After the acquisition, Mr. Yarmuth became the President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company.  Mr. Yarmuth became Chairman and CEO in 1992.  He was Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of National from 1981 to 1991.
 
(2)                                  C. Steven Guenthner has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since 1992.  From 1983 through 1992 Mr. Guenthner was employed as a C.P.A. with Arthur Andersen LLP.  Prior to joining the Company he served as a Senior Manager in the firm’s Accounting and Audit division specializing in mergers and acquisitions, public companies and the healthcare industry.
 
(3)                                  P. Todd Lyles joined the Company as Senior Vice President Planning and Development in October 1997 and now serves as Senior Vice President — Administration.  Prior to joining the Company Mr. Lyles was Vice President Development for the Kentucky Division of Columbia/HCA, a position he had held since 1993.  Mr. Lyles experience also includes 8 years with Humana Inc. in various financial and hospital management positions.
 
(4)                                  Anne T. Liechty became Senior Vice President — VN Operations in 2001.  Ms. Liechty has been employed by the Company since 1986 in various capacities including Vice President of Operations for the Company’s VN segment and its Product segment.
 
(5)                                  Nancy G. Ralston joined the Company in March of 2008 as Vice President — VN Operations in North Central Florida.  Prior to joining Almost Family she was ownership partner and CEO of Apex Home Healthcare Services and its subsidiary companies since 2005.  Combined, she has over 13 years of home healthcare management and business development experience including multiple startup operations throughout Florida.
 
(6)                                  Carla J. Hengst joined the Company in June of 2008 as Vice President and now serves as the Vice President of Personal Care Operations.  Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Hengst was a Vice President of Operations for US Medical Management for two years.  Ms. Hengst’s experience also includes 17 years with Gentiva Health Services in various management positions.
 
70





Table of Contents
 
 
Code of Ethics
 
The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that applies to its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and any person performing similar functions.  The Company has made the Code of Ethics available on its website at www.almostfamily.com and will post any waivers to the Code of Ethics on the website.
 
ITEMS 11, 12, 13 and 14.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION; SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS; CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE; AND PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
 
The Registrant intends to file a definitive proxy statement with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A (17 CFR 240.14a) not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by this report. In accordance with General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K, the information called for by Items 11, 12, 13 and 14 is incorporated herein by reference to portions of the definitive proxy statement.
 
Equity Compensation Plans
 
As of December 31, 2011, shares of common stock authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans are summarized in the following table.  See note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the plans.  The table below is furnished pursuant to item 12.
 



Plan Category 

  

Shares to be   Issued Upon   Exercise 

  

Weighted   Average Option   Exercise Price 

  

Shares   Available for   Future Grants 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Plans approved by shareholders 

  

292,426 

  

$ 

25.15 

  

185,296 

   


Plans not approved by shareholders 

  

— 

  

— 

  

— 

   


Total 

  

292,426 

  

$ 

25.15 

  

185,296 

    
 
71





Table of Contents
 
 
PART IV
 



ITEM 15. 

EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL   STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

   


  

  

   


  

  

Page Number  


(a) 

The   following items are filed as part of this report: 

   


  

  

   


  

1. 

Index   to Consolidated Financial Statements 

   


  

  

   


  

  

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended   December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

46  


  

  

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31,   2011 and 2010 

47  


  

  

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for   the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

48  


  

  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years   ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 

49  


  

  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

50  


  

  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting   Firm 

66  


  

  

  

   


  

2. 

Index   to Financial Statement Schedule 

   


  

  

  

   


  

  

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 

76  


  

  

   


  

All   other Schedules have been omitted because they are either not required, not   applicable or, the information has otherwise been supplied in the financial   statements or notes thereto. 

   


  

  

   


(b) 

Exhibits required to be filed by Item 601 of   Regulation S-K are set forth below: 

   





  
 
72





Table of Contents
 
 



Number 

  

Description of Exhibit  


  

  

   


3.1 

  

Certificate   of Incorporation, as amended, of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to   Exhibit No. 3.1 of the Registrant’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for   the year ended March 31, 1997 and Exhibit 3.1 of the Registrant’s Quarterly   Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008)  


  

  

   


3.2 

  

Amended   and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3   of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 12, 2007)  


  

  

   


4.1 

  

Other   Debt Instruments — copies of other debt instruments for which the total debt   is less than 10% of assets will be furnished to the Commission upon request.  


  

  

   


10.1+ 

  

Employment   Agreement, dated January 1, 1996, between the Company and William B. Yarmuth   (incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the   year ended March 31, 1996).  


  

  

   


10.2+ 

  

2007   Stock and Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix   A of the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A as filed on June 25,   2007).  


  

  

   


10.3+ 

  

2000   Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Registration   Statement on Form S-8 Reg. No. 333-88744).  


  

  

   


10.4+ 

  

Amended   and Restated Non-Employee Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated   by reference to Exhibit 10.13 of the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the   year ended December 31, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.5+ 

  

Forms   of Stock Option Agreements and Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to   2007 Stock and Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Report   on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.6 

  

Credit   Agreement, dated as of July 15, 2008 among Almost Family, Inc., the lenders   party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and Fifth   Third Bank as Syndication Agent. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1   of the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,   2009).  


  

  

   


10.7+ 

  

Amendment   dated January 1, 2009 to Employment Agreement effective January 1, 1996,   between the Registrant and William B. Yarmuth (incorporated by reference to   the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.8+ 

  

Amendment   to Amended and Restated 2000 Stock Option Plan dated January 1, 2009   (incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s Report on Form 10-K for the   year ended December 31, 2008).  


  

  

   


10.9 

  

Almost   Family, Inc. 2009 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to   Appendix A of the Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A as filed on July   1, 2009).  


  

  

   


10.10 

  

Credit   Agreement, dated as of December 2, 2010 among Almost Family, Inc., the   lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and   Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agent.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1   of the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 2, 2010).  


  

  

   


10.11 

  

Securities   Purchase Agreement dated as of August 2, 2011, among (i) Almost Family, Inc.,   (ii) National Health Industries, Inc., (iii) Cambridge Home Health Care   Holdings, Inc., (iv) Evolve Capital, Ltd., and (v) those Persons holding   Company Common Stock and Company Warrants listed on the signature pages   (listed omitted schedules will be furnished supplementally to the SEC upon   request). (Incorporated by reference to the Registrant’s   
 
73





Table of Contents
 
 



  

  

Report   on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011).  


  

  

   


21* 

  

List   of Subsidiaries of Almost Family, Inc.  


  

  

   


23.1* 

  

Consent   of Ernst & Young LLP  


  

  

   


31.1* 

  

Certification   of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of   the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.  


  

  

   


31.2* 

  

Certification   of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) and Rule 15d-14(a) of   the Securities Exchange Act, as amended.  


  

  

   


32.1* 

  

Certification   of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C 1350, as adopted pursuant to   section 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.  


  

  

   


32.2* 

  

Certification   of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C 1350, as adopted pursuant to   section 906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002.  


  

  

   


101 

  

Financial   statements from the annual report on Form 10-K of Almost Family, Inc. for the   year ended December 31, 2011, filed on February 22, 2012, formatted in XBRL:   (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Income,   (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) Consolidated Statements of   Stockholders’ Equity, and (v) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,   tagged as block of text.   
 

*Denotes filed herein.
+Denotes compensatory plan or management contract.
 
74





Table of Contents
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 



ALMOST FAMILY, INC. 

  

   


February 22, 2012 

  

   


  

  

   


By: 

/s/   William B. Yarmuth 

February 22,   2012 

   


William B. Yarmuth 

   


Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 

   


  

  

   


By: 

/s/   C. Steven Guenthner 

February 22,   2012 

   


C. Steven Guenthner 

   


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

   


(Principal Financial Officer) 

    
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates indicated:
 



Signature 

  

Title 

  

Date  


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   William B. Yarmuth 

  

Director, Chief Executive Officer and President 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

William   B. Yarmuth 

  

(principal executive officer) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   C. Steven Guenthner 

  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

C.   Steven Guenthner 

  

(principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) 

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   Steven B. Bing 

  

Director 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

Steven   B. Bing 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   Donald G. McClinton 

  

Director 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

Donald   G. McClinton 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   Tyree G. Wilburn 

  

Director 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

Tyree   G. Wilburn 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   Jonathan D. Goldberg 

  

Director 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

Jonathan   D. Goldberg 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   W. Earl Reed, III 

  

Director 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

W.   Earl Reed, III 

  

  

  

   


  

  

  

  

  

   


By: 

/s/   Henry M. Altman, Jr. 

  

Director 

  

February 22, 2012  


  

Henry   M. Altman, Jr. 

  

  

  

    
 
75





Table of Contents
 
 
ALMOST FAMILY, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
SCHEDULE II
(In thousands)
 



  

  

Col. A 

  

Col. B 

  

Col. C 

  

Col. D 

  

Col. E 

   


  

  

  

  

Additions/(Deductions) 

  

  

  

  

   


Description 

  

Balance at   Beginning   of Period 

  

(1)   Charged to   Costs and   Expenses 

  

(2)   Charged to   Other   Accounts 

  

(3)   Deductions 

  

Balance at   End of   Period 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Allowance for uncollectible   accounts: 

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year Ended December 31, 2011 

  

$ 

7,525 

  

$ 

2,362 

  

$ 

732 

  

$ 

(3,955 

) 

$ 

6,664 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year Ended December 31, 2010 

  

6,534 

  

$ 

3,675 

  

$ 

(451 

) 

$ 

(2,233 

) 

7,525 

   


  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

  

   


Year Ended December 31, 2009 

  

4,418 

  

3,762 

  

155 

  

(1,801 

) 

6,534 

   

















  
 

(1)        Charged to bad debt expense.
(2)        Acquired uncollectible accounts reserves.
(3)        Write-off of accounts.
 
76







