
10-K
1
d375884d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
(Mark One)   


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 
or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from              to
              Commission File Number 001-09764
    
Harman International Industries, Incorporated  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)  

    
 






Delaware
 
11-2534306

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 400 Atlantic Street, Suite 1500
Stamford, CT
 
06901

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code (203) 328-3500 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
 
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
   
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one)   






Large accelerated filer  x
 
Accelerated filer  ¨

Non-accelerated filer  ¨  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company  ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of December 31, 2011 (the last
business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter) was $2,662,339,944 based upon the closing price of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange on that date. 
Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant’s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date:
67,164,240 shares of common stock, par value $.01 per share, as of July 31, 2012.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 Portions of the registrant’s definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in connection with the 2012
Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III.   
   


Table of Contents
INDEX 
 












 
  
Page
 

 Forward–Looking Statements 
  
 
1
  




 Part I 
  




 Item
 
1.
  
 Business
  
 
3
  

 Item
 
1A.
  
 Risk Factors
  
 
14
  

 Item
 
1B.
  
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
20
  

 Item
 
2.
  
 Properties
  
 
21
  

 Item
 
3.
  
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
21
  


 

  
 Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
23
  

 Item
 
4.
  
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
25
  




 Part II 
  




 Item
 
5.
  
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
26
  

 Item
 
6.
  
 Selected Financial Data
  
 
27
  

 Item
 
7.
  
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
28
  

 Item
 
7A.
  
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
47
  

 Item
 
8.
  
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
49
  

 Item
 
9.
  
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
106
  

 Item
 
9A.
  
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
106
  

 Item
 
9B.
  
 Other Information
  
 
106
  




 Part III 
  




 Item
 
10.
  
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
107
  

 Item
 
11.
  
 Executive Compensation
  
 
107
  

 Item
 
12.
  
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
107
  

 Item
 
13.
  
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
107
  

 Item
 
14.
  
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
107
  




 Part IV 
  




 Item
 
15.
  
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
108
  




 Signatures 
  
 
115
  
 The page numbers in this Table of Contents reflect actual page numbers, not EDGAR page tag numbers.
 References to “Harman,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” in this Form
10-K refer to Harman International Industries, Incorporated and its subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise. 
Harman, the Harman logo, and Harman products and brand names referred to herein are either the trademarks or the registered trademarks of
Harman. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
  i 


Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Statements 
This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You should not place undue reliance on these statements. Forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future results of operations, cash flows,
capital expenditures, the outcome of pending legal proceedings and claims, goals and objectives for future operations, including descriptions of our business strategies and purchase commitments from customers. These statements are typically
identified by words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “estimate,” “should,” “will” and similar expressions. We base these statements on
particular assumptions that we have made in light of our industry experience, as well as our perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances.
As you read and consider the information in this report, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. In light of these risks and uncertainties, we
cannot assure you that the results and events contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in, or incorporated by reference into, this report will in fact transpire. 
You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this report because they identify important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly and may not meet our expectations or those of securities analysts or investors. The
price of our stock would likely decline if this occurs. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include, but are not limited to, the following:   


 
•
 
 our ability to maintain profitability in our infotainment segment if there are delays in our product launches which may give rise to significant
penalties and increased engineering expense;   


 
•
 
 the loss of one or more significant customers, or the loss of a significant platform with an automotive customer; 
 


 
•
 
 fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the value of the U.S. Dollar and the Euro; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to successfully implement our global footprint initiative, including achieving cost reductions and other benefits in connection with the
restructuring of our manufacturing, engineering, procurement and administrative organizations;   


 
•
 
 fluctuations in the price and supply of raw materials including, without limitation, petroleum, copper, steel, aluminum, synthetic resins, rare metals
and rare-earth minerals, or shortages of materials, parts and components;   


 
•
 
 the inability of our suppliers to deliver products at the scheduled rate and disruptions arising in connection therewith; 
 


 
•
 
 our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management and to prepare and implement an appropriate succession plan for our critical
organizational positions;   


 
•
 
 our failure to implement and maintain a comprehensive disaster recovery program; 
 


 
•
 
 our failure to comply with governmental rules and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. export control laws, and the cost
of complying with such laws;   


 
•
 
 our ability to maintain a competitive technological advantage through innovation and leading product designs; and 
 


 
•
 
 our failure to maintain the value of our brands and implementing a sufficient brand protection program. 
Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, you should be aware that many factors
could affect our actual results of operations and could cause actual results to 
  1 


Table of Contents

differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. As a result, the foregoing factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read together with the other
cautionary statements included in this and other reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For additional information regarding certain factors that may cause our actual results to differ from those expected or anticipated, see
the information under the caption “Risk Factors” which is located in Item 1A of Part I of this report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement (except as required by law). 
Market, ranking and other data  In this report, we refer to information regarding market data obtained from internal sources, market research, publicly available information and industry publications. Estimates are inherently uncertain,
involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various factors, including those discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” which is located in Item 1A of Part I of this report. 
  2 


Table of Contents
Part I 
 


Item 1.
Business  Our Company 
We believe we are a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of high quality, high-fidelity
audio products and electronic systems. We have developed, both internally and through a series of strategic acquisitions, a broad range of product offerings sold under renowned brand names in our principal markets. We also believe that we are a
leader in digitally integrated infotainment and audio systems for the automotive industry. Our AKG®, Crown®, JBL®, Infinity®, Harman/Kardon®, Lexicon®, dbx®, Digitech®, BSS®, Studer®, Soundcraft®, Mark Levinson®, Becker®, Revel®, Logic 7®, and Selenium® brand names
are well known worldwide for premium quality and performance.  Segments 
Effective July 1, 2011, we revised our business segments in order to better align them with our strategic approach to the markets and
customers we serve. While our Professional segment was largely unaffected, we reorganized our Automotive and Consumer segments and created two new segments, Infotainment and Lifestyle. The Infotainment segment includes our infotainment business,
which was previously reported in our Automotive segment, and Aha Mobile (“Aha”), a business we acquired in September 2010, which was previously reported in our Other segment. The Lifestyle segment includes our automotive audio business,
which was previously reported in our Automotive segment, our Consumer segment, which was previously reported as a standalone segment, and our luxury home audio business, which was previously reported in our Professional segment. Our Professional
segment includes our Professional segment, as previously reported, excluding our luxury home audio business. Our Other segment primarily includes compensation, benefit and occupancy costs for corporate employees, net of allocations, expenses
associated with new technology innovation and our corporate brand identity campaign.  Prior period segment amounts throughout
the consolidated financial statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been reclassified to conform to the current segment structure. For additional information about our segments,
see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” included in Item 7 of Part II of this report and Note 17 – Business Segment Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this report.  Infotainment 
Our Infotainment segment designs, manufactures and markets infotainment systems for vehicle applications to be installed primarily as
original equipment by automotive manufacturers. Our infotainment systems are a combination of information and entertainment components that may include or control GPS navigation, traffic information, voice-activated telephone and climate control,
rear seat entertainment, wireless Internet access, hard disk recording and MP3 playback. We expect future infotainment systems to also integrate driver safety capabilities such as lane guidance, traffic sign recognition, pre-crash emergency braking,
adaptive cruise control and night vision. Global customers for our infotainment systems include BMW, Audi/Volkswagen, Daimler AG, Toyota/Lexus, Chrysler, Hyundai/Kia, Porsche, PSA Peugeot Citroën and Subaru. We also produce a Harman/Kardon
branded infotainment system for Harley-Davidson touring motorcycles.  Lifestyle 
Our Lifestyle segment designs, manufactures and markets automotive audio systems for vehicle applications to be installed primarily as
original equipment by automotive manufacturers, and a wide range of mid- to high-end loudspeaker and electronics for home, multimedia and mobile applications. Our Lifestyle products are marketed worldwide under brand names including JBL, AKG,
Harman/Kardon, Infinity, Mark Levinson, Revel, 
  3 


Table of Contents

Logic 7, Lexicon and Selenium. Global customers for our premium audio systems include BMW, Daimler AG, Chrysler, Toyota/Lexus, Hyundai/Kia, Porsche, Land Rover, PSA Peugeot Citroën, General
Motors, Rolls Royce and Jaguar. Home applications include dedicated home audio and theater systems, as well as distributed systems that provide multi-zone high-quality audio and video. Multimedia applications comprise a wide-range of innovative
accessories such as earbuds and noise cancelling headphones that enhance the sound of portable electronic devices. Our branded home audio products for multimedia applications are primarily designed to enhance sound for Apple’s iPad®, iPod® and iPhone®, as well as other
MP3 players. We provide transducers and built-in speakers for leading notebook computers, such as Dell and Toshiba. Additionally, we provide an extensive line of audio systems for personal computers that are recognized for their award winning design
and high fidelity. Aftermarket mobile products include speakers, amplifiers and digital signal processors that deliver high-quality in-car audio. Our home audio products are sold in specialty audio stores, mass-market retail stores such as Apple,
Best Buy, Target, Media Markt and Fnac, and through online retailers, such as Amazon.com.  Professional 
Our Professional segment designs, manufactures and markets an extensive range of loudspeakers, power amplifiers,
digital signal processors, microphones, headphones, mixing consoles and IDX information delivery systems used by audio professionals in concert halls, stadiums, airports, houses of worship and other public spaces. For example, our Professional
products are used in prestigious venues and at important events such as the GRAMMY® Awards, Super Bowl XLVI, the
Oscars®, the Country Music Awards, the Indian National Games, New York’s Lincoln Center, Gotham Center and
City Center theaters and the Museum of Science Planetarium in Boston. We design products for recording, broadcast, cinema and music reproduction applications. We also provide high-quality products to the sound reinforcement, music instrument support
and broadcast and recording segments of the professional audio market.  Our Professional segment also
offers complete systems solutions for professional installations and users around the world. Our products can be linked by our HiQnet® network protocol, which provides a central digital network for audio professionals to control different aspects of a complex system. We believe that we are well
equipped to provide turnkey systems solutions for professional audio applications that offer the customer improved performance, reliability, ease of installation and reduced cost. Our Professional segment products are marketed globally under a
number of brand names, including JBL Professional®, AKG, Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx, BSS, Studer
and Selenium.  Other  Our Other segment primarily includes compensation, benefit and occupancy costs for corporate employees, net of allocations, expenses associated with new technology innovation and our corporate brand
identity campaign.  Acquisitions  On July 22, 2011, we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Harman Holding Limited, acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of MWM Acoustics, LLC and certain related entities (“MWM
Acoustics”), a leading provider of high performance embedded acoustic solutions. The operating results of MWM Acoustics are included in our Consolidated Statements of Income from the date of the acquisition within our Lifestyle segment.
 Results of Operations  Our results of operations depend on our sales of audio products and electronic systems in the Infotainment, Lifestyle and Professional markets. Our products are sold worldwide, the largest markets of
which are the United States and Germany. Significant portions of our net sales are denominated in Euros. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Our Strengths  World-class brand portfolio  We believe that our brands and the
innovative technologies they represent, many of which Harman pioneered, have helped establish our Company as a leader in the primary markets we serve. We have successfully leveraged our brands across our Infotainment, Lifestyle and Professional
segments, which promotes brand reinforcement and recognition across markets.  Innovation and technological expertise 
We believe that our technological innovation, the quality of our products and our reputation for on-time delivery have resulted in Harman
being awarded a substantial amount of Infotainment and Lifestyle business. As of June 30, 2012, we have a cumulative estimated $16.1 billion of future awarded Infotainment and Lifestyle automotive business, which represents the estimated future
lifetime net sales for all customers. This amount does not represent firm customer orders. We calculate our awarded business using various assumptions, which we update annually, including global vehicle production forecasts, customer take rates for
our products, revisions to product life cycle estimates and the impact of annual price reductions, among other factors. We update our estimates quarterly by adding the value of new awards received and subtracting sales recorded during the quarter.
 Our management uses the amount of our future awarded business for short- and long-term budgeting and forecasting, development
of earnings guidance and for planning future corporate investment and other activities, such as capital expenditures and restructuring. Our future awarded business is also an input used to approximate our enterprise value. We believe our investors
utilize this information for a number of reasons, including to evaluate our future financial performance over time, to model our financial results of operations, to understand the risks inherent in our current operating plan, and as an input to
approximate our enterprise value. However, our estimates of future awarded automotive business are forward-looking statements and may not actually be achieved. See the risk factor “We may not realize sales represented by awarded business”
in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of Part I of this report.  Seasoned management team with extensive global experience
 Our senior management team possesses substantial experience leading technology-oriented companies, promoting
profitable growth through continuous value-added innovation and providing guidance, leadership and cost-discipline through challenging economic conditions.  Our Growth Strategy  Continued growth through innovation 
We are focused on the next generation of audio and infotainment solutions that will blend advances in wireless networking, streaming
audio, hands-free connectivity, driver assistance, safety systems and more. Our advanced software capabilities and acoustic expertise will work together to define emerging standards across all of our segments. 
We believe we can grow our business with automotive manufacturers through an increase in the number of models offering our audio and
infotainment systems; increases in per-vehicle content through the provision of integrated infotainment and premium branded audio systems; higher penetration levels of high-level audio and infotainment systems within existing models; and by
providing systems that will continue to integrate advanced driver assistance and safety measures as they evolve.  We have
developed a new mid-range infotainment system that we believe will deliver industry-leading performance at an affordable price that will allow us to penetrate the emerging mid-range automotive market. We also are developing, through our GreenEdge
initiative, environmentally friendly technologies to reduce power 
  5 


Table of Contents

consumption and product weight, a growing area of opportunity for environmentally conscious customers. We have partnered with Lotus Engineering (UK) to develop active noise management
applications for both conventional and hybrid/electric cars. We believe that this technology will be an important component for conventional, hybrid and electric vehicles in the future. 
We believe our innovative networking and control technologies will provide us with significant growth opportunities across all of our
segments. Our HiQnet technology simplifies the interaction of our products and provides users with an incentive to purchase complete HiQnet compatible systems. We are also playing a leading role in developing the emerging Ethernet AV standard, which
we believe will be the basis for the next-generation of infotainment and professional technology. This technology will allow higher audio and video bandwidth and transport capabilities, and we believe it will open up significant new market
opportunities.  Expansion into emerging markets  We believe significant opportunities exist to grow our business in all three of our business segments in emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. To execute this strategy, we have hired
dedicated country managers and staff in these markets. We also are repositioning our research and development and production capabilities, and are developing distribution channels to be able to meet the demand for our products in these markets.
Harman do Brasil (formerly known as Selenium), our wholly-owned subsidiary, has an established market presence and distribution channel in Brazil and Latin America which is driving new business opportunities across all of our segments in this
region. We expect our market share to continue to grow significantly in these countries.  Products 
Infotainment  We
believe that we are a leader in the development and manufacture of high-quality, digitally-integrated infotainment systems for automobiles. In recent years, the automotive industry experienced increased demand for information and entertainment in
automotive vehicles. We have developed leading technical competencies to address this demand. In fiscal year 2012, we supplied infotainment systems for vehicles manufactured by BMW, Audi/Volkswagen, Daimler AG, Toyota/Lexus, Chrysler, Hyundai/Kia,
Porsche, PSA Peugeot Citroën and Subaru.  Lifestyle 
We believe that we are a leader in the development and manufacture of high-quality, high fidelity, digitally-integrated premium branded
audio systems for automobiles. We continue to leverage our expertise in the design and manufacture of premium branded audio systems, as well as our reputation for quality associated with our brand names. As a result of our well-established
relationships with automobile manufacturers, our engineers are engaged early in the vehicle design process to develop systems that optimize acoustic performance and minimize weight and space requirements. Our Infinity branded car audio systems are
offered by Hyundai and Kia in the U.S. BMW, Daimler AG, Land Rover, General Motors and Chrysler provide Harman/Kardon branded audio systems in their vehicles. Our premium Mark Levinson digital audio system is offered by Lexus. Lexicon branded audio
systems are offered as an option in certain Hyundai vehicles. Toyota and PSA Peugeot Citroën offer our JBL branded audio systems. Hyundai and Kia also offer our JBL branded audio systems in the South Korean market. Our JBL Professional branded
audio system is offered in Ferrari’s new F12 model. We also have an exclusive license with Bowers & Wilkins to develop, manufacture, sell and service premium automotive audio systems under the Bowers & Wilkins brand name.
 We manufacture loudspeakers under the Harman/Kardon, Infinity, Revel and JBL brand names for the home audio market. These
loudspeaker lines include models designed for two-channel stereo and multi-channel surround sound applications for the home in a wide range of performance choices, including floor standing, 
  6 


Table of Contents

bookshelf, powered, low frequency, in-wall, wireless and all-weather, as well as in styles and finishes ranging from high gloss lacquers to genuine wood veneers. The JBL, Infinity and Selenium
product lines also include car loudspeakers, subwoofers, amplifiers and digital signal processors sold in the aftermarket. The JBL and Infinity products also include marine speakers intended for use on boats. 
We also offer a broad range of home audio electronics under the Harman/Kardon, Lexicon and Mark Levinson brand names.
Our Harman/Kardon home electronics line includes audio/video receivers featuring Logic 7, Dolby Digital® and DTS® surround sound processing capabilities and multi-channel amplifiers, DVD players, Blu-ray players and CD players. We
design high-end home audio electronics, including amplifiers, digital signal processors, multi format digital media players and transports and surround sound processors that we market under the renowned Mark Levinson and Lexicon brands. 
In the multimedia market, we offer branded iPad, iPod and iPhone docking devices such as JBL On Stage™, JBL On
Beat™, JBL On Beat Xtreme™, Harman/Kardon Go +Play™, and PC-related devices such as JBL Creature™ II and Harman/Kardon Soundsticks® III. We also offer a variety of headphone devices under the JBL, Harman/Kardon and AKG brand names. Our products add greater functionality for computers, cellular
telephones and electronic devices.  Professional  Our Professional products include loudspeakers and electronic equipment that are marketed under what we believe are some of the most respected brand names in the industry. 
The Professional market is increasingly moving to digital technology and we believe that we are a leader in this market. Our Professional
segment derives value from our ability to share research and development, engineering talent, technical expertise and other digital resources among our business units. Loudspeaker, amplifiers, signal processing, mixing, microphones and headphones
each have substantial digital engineering resources and work together to achieve common goals.  Our Professional loudspeakers
are well known for high quality and superior sound. JBL Professional branded products include studio monitors, loudspeaker systems, powered loudspeakers, sound reinforcement systems, cinema systems, surround sound systems and industrial
loudspeakers. Our Selenium branded products include line arrays, screen and portable systems and related technologies for public sound reinforcement.  Our Professional electronic products are recognized for high quality and reliability. We market these products on a worldwide basis under various trademarks, including Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon, BSS,
DigiTech, AKG, dbx and Studer. These products are often sold in conjunction with our JBL Professional loudspeakers and certain other products, such as Crown amplifiers.  We produce sound mixing consoles ranging from digital consoles for broadcast studios to compact professional mixers for personal recording, home studios and sound reinforcement. Our consoles are sold to
four main market areas: sound reinforcement, recording studios, broadcast studios and musical instrument dealers. Our mixing consoles are sold primarily under the Soundcraft and Studer brands. We produce many types of signal processing products,
equalizers, and special effects devices that are used in live sound applications and in recording studios to produce sound effects and refine final mixes. These products are sold under the Lexicon, DigiTech, BSS and dbx brand names. 
We produce microphones, stereo headphones, surround-sound headphones and other professional audio products, which are marketed under the
AKG brand name.  We also produce professional amplifiers and powered loudspeakers under the Crown and JBL brand names. We
believe the integration of loudspeakers and electronics enhances our ability to provide complete systems solutions to the professional audio market. Our other professional products include switching systems, digital audio workstations and turnkey
broadcasting studio installations marketed primarily under the Studer brand name. 
  7 


Table of Contents
With our HiQnet network protocol we can configure, connect and control a complete
professional sound system from microphone to speaker on one unified digital network. This system provides enhanced productivity and facilitates real-time problem diagnosis and correction from a central location. 
Our IDX information delivery system is a seamless audio and visual information delivery solution that provides a highly flexible and
scalable way to communicate important information to those trying to navigate complex spaces such as today’s airports, transit stations and other public spaces.  Manufacturing  We believe that our manufacturing capabilities are essential
to maintaining and improving product quality and performance. Our manufacturing facilities are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Our facilities have been designed to emphasize worker safety and compliance with environmental,
health and safety regulations.  Our European manufacturing facilities for our Infotainment segment are located in Germany,
France and Hungary. We also have manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Mexico and China. These facilities are used to manufacture infotainment systems.  Our European manufacturing facilities for our Lifestyle segment are located in Germany, France and Hungary. These facilities are used to manufacture automotive audio systems. Our North American
manufacturing facilities are located in Mexico for automotive audio components and Kentucky for automotive electronics. We also manufacture automotive audio and electronic components in China. Our Lifestyle segment primarily uses original design
manufacturers and outsources the manufacture of its home audio products to generate cost efficiencies, deliver products faster, and better serve our customers. These manufacturers are primarily based in China. We also have a facility in Brazil that
produces aftermarket automotive audio products.  In North America, our principal Professional segment’s manufacturing
facility is located in Mexico for loudspeakers, and in Utah and Indiana for electronic products, including amplifiers and effects devices. Our Professional segment’s electronics manufacturing in Europe includes mixing consoles in the United
Kingdom and microphones and headphones in Austria. Our Professional segment’s electronics manufacturing in Brazil includes electronic loudspeakers, amplifiers and other components. Our Professional segment’s manufacturing in China includes
audio electronics and loudspeakers.  Suppliers  We use rare earth minerals in our products, specifically rare earth neodymium magnets. A significant disruption in the supply of neodymium would have a material impact on our consolidated results of
operations. We also use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption in our microchip supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources would have a material impact on our consolidated results of
operations. Several independent suppliers manufacture loudspeakers and electronic products. The loss of any one of these suppliers could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial condition.
 Distribution Channels 
Infotainment  We
primarily sell our Infotainment systems directly to automobile manufacturers in the U.S., Europe, India, Japan, China and South Korea, where they are installed as original equipment. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Lifestyle  We primarily sell our Lifestyle automotive audio systems directly to automobile manufacturers in the U.S., Europe, India, Japan, China and South Korea, where they are installed as original equipment. In
both our foreign and domestic markets, we sell our Lifestyle home audio products to dealers who sell directly to the end user and to distributors who resell our products to retailers. We market our products as one brand to the ultimate consumer who
chooses what brand of sound system to purchase for their home or their automobile. Our goal is to make Harman brands the preferred brand in both the home and automotive audio applications. 
Home, multimedia and mobile aftermarket products are offered through audio specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail
order firms and Internet merchants. Automotive and computer manufacturers also offer branded audio products as options. We concentrate primarily on the higher quality, higher priced segments of the audio market and compete based upon the strength of
our brand names, the quality of our products, our ability to provide integrated systems and our comprehensive marketing, engineering and manufacturing resources.  Professional  In the U.S. we primarily sell our Professional
products to dealers via manufacturer’s representatives. Outside the U.S. we sell directly to distributors. Manufacturer’s representatives are paid sales agents and distributors buy and hold the inventory and sell directly to dealers in
their markets. Both manufacturer’s representatives and distributors have a defined geographic region. In the broadcast and recording market, we primarily solicit business directly with the end users. We also sell our Professional products in
retail stores and direct to customers over the Internet.  Trademarks and Patents 
We market our products under numerous brand names that are protected by both pending and registered trademarks around the world. Our
trademark registrations cover use of trademark rights in connection with various products, such as loudspeakers, speaker systems, speaker system components and other electrical and electronic devices. We have registered or taken other protective
measures for many of these trademarks in substantially all major industrialized countries. As of June 30, 2012, we had 1,919 trademark registrations and 366 pending trademark applications around the world. 
We have a history of innovation and, with more than 2,771 patents and 1,624 pending patent applications, at June 30, 2012, covering
various audio, infotainment and software technologies and products, we continue to take our technology and products into new areas. While we consider our patents on the whole to be important, we do not consider any single patent, any group of
related patents or any single license essential to our operations in the aggregate. The expiration of the patents individually and in the aggregate would not have a material effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 
Seasonality  We experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and earnings. Historically, our first fiscal quarter ending September 30th is generally the weakest due to automotive model year changeovers and the summer holidays in Europe. Sales of our
Lifestyle home audio products are generally significantly higher in the second quarter of our fiscal year, due to increased demand for these products during the holiday buying season. Our sales and earnings also vary due to the timing of the release
of new products, customer acceptance of our products, product offerings by our competitors and general economic conditions. 
  9 


Table of Contents
Key Customers/Industry Concentration 
We are subject to various risks related to our dependence on key customers. Net sales to BMW accounted for 19 percent and net sales to
Audi/Volkswagen accounted for 14 percent of our total consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. Accounts receivable, net due from BMW and Audi/Volkswagen accounted for 13 percent and 11 percent, respectively, of total
consolidated accounts receivable, net at June 30, 2012. We anticipate that BMW and Audi/Volkswagen will continue to account for a significant portion of our net sales and accounts receivable, net for the foreseeable future. 
For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, approximately 74 percent of our net sales were to automobile manufacturers. Our automotive
customers are not contractually obligated to any long-term purchase of our products. The loss of BMW or Audi/Volkswagen or any of our other significant automotive customers would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results
of operations and financial condition.  Backlog Orders  We manufacture our infotainment and automotive audio systems on a just-in-time basis. We maintain sufficient inventories of finished goods to promptly meet customer orders for our Lifestyle home audio and
Professional segment customers. As a result, we do not consider the level of backlog to be an important indication of our future performance. Our backlog was approximately $23.8 million at June 30, 2012. We expect to deliver these products
within the next 12 months.  Warranty Liabilities  We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six months to six years from the date of purchase, depending on the business segment and product. Our
dealers and warranty service providers normally perform warranty service in field locations and regional service centers, using parts and replacement finished goods we supply on an exchange basis. Our dealers and warranty service providers also
install updates we provide to correct defects covered by our warranties. Estimated warranty liabilities are based upon past experience with similar types of products, the technological complexity of certain products, replacement cost and other
factors. If estimates of warranty provisions are no longer adequate based on our analysis of current activity, incremental provisions are recorded as warranty expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. We take these factors into consideration
when assessing the adequacy of our warranty provision for periods still open to claim.  Competition 
The industries that we serve are fragmented and competitive and include numerous manufacturers offering products that vary widely in
price, quality and distribution methods.  Infotainment  In the infotainment market, we compete with Alpine, Bosch, Panasonic, Continental, Visteon, Mitsubishi Electronics, Aisin Seiki, Delphi and Denso in the sale of infotainment systems to automotive
manufacturers. We believe our competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in designing and integrating navigation, speech recognition and human-machine interfaces into complete infotainment systems uniquely adapted to the specific
requirements of each automobile model.  Lifestyle  In the automotive audio market, we compete with Bose, Pioneer ASK, Foster Electric, Bang & Olufsen, Delphi and Panasonic in the sale of audio systems to automotive manufacturers. We believe our
competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in designing and integrating audio systems uniquely adapted to 
  10 


Table of Contents

the specific requirements of each automobile model. In the automobile after-market category we compete against speaker/amplifier brands such as Rockford Fosgate, Polk Audio and MTX and full range
brands such as Alpine, Kenwood, Pioneer and Sony.  In the home audio market, principal competitors in the loudspeaker market
include Bose, Klipsch, Polk Audio, Bowers & Wilkins, Delphi and Boston Acoustics. Competition in the home audio and home electronics market remains intense and is dominated by large Asian manufacturers such as Yamaha, Sony, Denon, Onkyo,
Pioneer and Marantz. We also compete in the luxury electronics market with our Mark Levinson and Lexicon brands. Our principal competitors in this high-end market include Krell, McIntosh, Audio Research, Meridian, Linn and Classe. 
In the multimedia market, we supply Apple stores and other retailers with JBL and Harman/Kardon speaker systems that serve Apple’s
iPad, iPod and iPhone as well as other MP3 players. Our principal competitors for these products are Bose, Altec Lansing, Klipsch, iHome, Bowers & Wilkins and Phillips. We also offer Harman/Kardon and JBL speaker systems to personal
computer retailers. In this market, our principal competitors are Creative Labs, Altec Lansing, Logitech, Klipsch and Cyber Acoustics. We sell headphones online and through various retailers. Our principal competitors for these products are Beats,
Pioneer, Sony, Bowers & Wilkins, Apple, Skull Candy and Bose. The home audio and multimedia markets are characterized by the short life cycle of products and a need for continuous design and development efforts. Our competitive strategy is
to compete in the higher-quality segments of this market and to continue to emphasize our ability to provide system solutions to customers, including a combination of loudspeakers, electronics products, integrated surround sound and home theater
systems.  Professional  The market for professional sound systems is highly competitive. We believe that we have historically held a leading market position in the professional loudspeaker market and have complemented our
professional loudspeaker line by adding digital professional electronic products and broadcast and recording equipment. We compete by utilizing our ability to provide systems solutions to meet the complete audio requirements of our professional
customers. With our HiQnet networking protocol software, our professional brand products can communicate and operate together. We offer products for most professional audio applications. 
Our principal competitors in the sound reinforcement market include Telex, Electro Voice, Mackie, QSC, Meyer Sound Laboratories,
Sennheiser, Peavey, Shure, Audio Technica, and Yamaha. Principal competitors in the recording and broadcast markets include Yamaha, Sennheiser, Loud Technologies, Inc., Lawo, Harris Corporation, DigiDesign/M-Audio, Genelec, KRK, TC Electronics,
Stagetec and Sony. In the music instrument market, competitors for our products include Yamaha, Peavey, QSC, Shure, Sennheiser, Line 6, Dunlop, Zoom, Audio Technica and Roland. We also compete in the industrial and architectural sound market. Our
competitors within this market include Siemens, Peavey and Tannoy.  Environmental Regulation 
We are subject to various Federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use,
discharge and disposal of hazardous materials and, increasingly, the recycling of our products and their packaging.  In
Europe, we are subject to the European Union’s (“EU”) Directive on the Restriction of Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronics Equipment (“EU RoHS”). This directive restricts the placement into the
EU market of electrical and electronic equipment containing certain hazardous materials, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium. We are also subject to the EU’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, which regulates the
collection, recovery and recycling of waste from certain electronic products. 
  11 


Table of Contents
The EU has also enacted the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of
Chemicals (“REACH”) regulation. REACH requires manufacturers and importers of articles to register the substances contained in the articles if the substances are intended to be released under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of
use. Because the substances contained in our products are not intended to be released under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, we do not believe we or the importers of our products have an obligation under REACH to register those
substances.  Certain of our Lifestyle products will require submission of energy-use profiles in accordance with the EU Energy
Using Products Directive. We are modifying the design and energy-use profiles of our products to comply with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Energy has promulgated a regulation pertaining to external power
supplies and compliance with the energy efficiency standards that were established under the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. We will address these requirements as necessary. Our products may also become subject to further energy
efficiency requirements if and when required under U.S. federal climate change legislation.  In China, we are subject to
China’s law on Management Methods on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products (“China RoHS”), which is substantially similar to the EU RoHS. The China RoHS requires the disclosure and marking of certain
substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and chromium in certain electronic products.  We believe that our facilities are
in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations. We expect further laws similar to the EU RoHS and China RoHS, and those governing product and packaging recycling, to be introduced in other jurisdictions, many or most of which could
impose additional costs, including fees to cover recycling costs. The need for and cost of our compliance with such legislation cannot yet be determined but it could be substantial.  Research and Development  We believe that continued investment in product
research and development is critical to our success. Expenditures for research and development were $331.9 million, $304.6 million and $322.7 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to continue
to devote significant resources to research and development to sustain our competitive position.  Number of Employees 
At June 30, 2012, we had 11,366 full-time employees, including 4,169 employees located in North America and 7,197 employees located
outside of North America.  Foreign Operations  Information about our foreign operations is set forth in Note 17 – Business Segment Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this report.
 Corporate Information  We were incorporated in the state of Delaware in 1980. Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Atlantic Street, Suite 1500, Stamford, Connecticut 06901. Our telephone number is
(203) 328-3500. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Subsequent Events  Amendment to Revolving Credit Facility  Effective July 2, 2012,
we and our wholly owned subsidiary, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG (“Harman KG”), entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Multi-Currency Credit Agreement dated as of December 1, 2010, as
amended on December 15, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”), with a group of banks. The Second Amendment amends the Credit Agreement by, among other things, (a) allowing us and our subsidiaries to enter into certain internal legal
entity restructuring transactions subject in certain circumstances to various conditions, (b) in connection with such internal legal entity restructuring transactions, providing for the release of certain security interests created by the
Guarantee and Collateral Agreement dated as of December 1, 2010, and (c) making certain other amendments to facilitate the foregoing. 
Dividend Declaration  On August 10, 2012, we declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The quarterly dividend will be paid on September 4, 2012 to each stockholder of
record as of the close of business on August 20, 2012. Shares Repurchased 
Between July 1, 2012 through August 10, 2012, we repurchased 129,966 shares of our common stock at a total cost of $4.8 million
in connection with our share buyback program.  Website Information 
Our corporate website is located at www.harman.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under “SEC
Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our website also provides access to reports filed by our directors, executive officers and certain significant stockholders pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the “Exchange Act”). In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Codes of Ethics and Business Conduct, and the charters for the three committees of our Board of Directors are available on our website. The information on
our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. In addition, the SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC. 
  13 


Table of Contents


Item 1A.
Risk Factors  In addition
to the other information included in this report, you should carefully consider the risk factors described below.  Decreased demand and
pricing pressure from our customers in the automotive industry may adversely affect our results of operations.  For the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, approximately 74 percent of our sales were to automobile manufacturers. As a result, our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the automotive industry, which is highly dependent on
general economic conditions and has experienced significant difficulty. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience reductions in orders from our original equipment manufacturer customers. If one or more of our significant
automotive customers experiences, or continues to experience, continued or increased financial difficulty, as a result of a prolonged economic downturn or otherwise, this would have a further adverse effect on our business due to further decreased
demand, the potential inability of these companies to make full payment on amounts owed to us, or both. In addition, our customer supply agreements generally provide for reductions in pricing of our products over the period of production. Pricing
pressures may intensify as a result of cost cutting initiatives of our customers. If we are unable to generate sufficient production cost savings in the future to offset future price reductions, our results of operations may be adversely affected.
 A decrease in consumer discretionary spending would likely reduce our sales. 
Our sales are dependent on discretionary spending by consumers, which could be materially adversely impacted by economic conditions
affecting disposable consumer income and retail sales. In addition, our sales of audio, electronic and infotainment products to automotive customers are dependent on the overall success of the automobile industry, and of premium automobiles in
particular, as well as the willingness of automobile purchasers to pay for the option of a premium branded automotive audio system or a multi-function digital infotainment system. Global demand for, and production of, premium vehicles, including
certain vehicle models that incorporate our products, could decline in a difficult economic environment. This decline could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  We have significant operations in Europe which may be adversely impacted by the continued economic challenges in Europe. 
The global economic recession that began in 2008 resulted in significantly lower demand and decreased profitability across all of our
segments and major markets. While North America and Asia have shown an improved, but somewhat uneven recovery, Europe remains stagnant with continued economic and financial challenges. Recent events in Europe have elevated concerns that
macroeconomic conditions will worsen and economic recovery will be delayed. If weak economic conditions persist or worsen, there could be a number of negative effects on our business, including our customers or potential customers reducing or
delaying orders, the insolvency of one or more of our key suppliers, which could result in production delays, and our customers being unable to obtain credit. Approximately 39 percent of our sales in fiscal 2012 were made to end consumers in Europe.
Should conditions worsen in these markets, customer demand for our products may deteriorate which would have a negative impact on our results of operations.  A significant portion of our sales are denominated in Euros, which sales may be adversely impacted by the eurozone crisis. 
Approximately 53 percent of our sales in fiscal 2012 were denominated in Euros. Certain eurozone countries in which we operate have
received financial aid packages from the European Union in the form of loans and restructuring of their sovereign debt and have introduced comprehensive fiscal austerity measures. If 
  14 


Table of Contents

dissolution and replacement of the Euro currency and the potential reintroduction of individual European Union currencies should occur as a result of the continued eurozone crisis, it could have
a negative impact on our results of operations and could expose us to increased foreign exchange risk.  The current economic environment
may adversely affect consumer spending patterns and the availability and cost of credit.  Our ability to make scheduled
payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the
bankruptcy and restructuring of major financial institutions, may adversely impact the availability and cost of credit in the future. The disruptions in the financial markets have also had an adverse effect on the global economy, which has
negatively impacted consumer spending patterns. This may result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. There can be no assurances that government
responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit.  We may not realize sales represented by awarded business.  Our
current estimate of $16.1 billion of awarded business at June 30, 2012 in our Infotainment and Lifestyle segments is calculated using certain assumptions from our customers, including projected future sales volumes with respect to the
applicable platforms. Orders from our customers with respect to these platforms are not made pursuant to contractual obligations and our customers can terminate arrangements with us at any time without penalty. Therefore, our actual platform sales
volumes, and thus the ultimate amount of revenue that we derive from such platforms, are not committed. If actual production orders from our customers are not consistent with the projections we use in calculating the amount of our awarded business,
we could realize substantially less revenue over the life of these projects than the currently projected estimate.  Failure to maintain
relationships with our largest customers and failure by our customers to continue to purchase expected quantities of our products due to changes in market conditions would have an adverse effect on our operations. 
We anticipate that our automotive customers, including BMW and Audi/Volkswagen, will continue to account for a significant portion of our
sales for the foreseeable future. However, none of BMW, Audi/Volkswagen, or any of our other automotive customers is obligated to any long-term purchases of our products. The loss of sales to BMW or Audi/Volkswagen, or to any of our other
significant automotive customers would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results of operations and financial condition.  Strategic decisions by our customers to expand dual sourcing arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operations. 
Automakers customarily maintain dual sourcing arrangements and we cannot assure you that our customers will not further expand dual
sourcing arrangements in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net sales, results of operations and financial condition.  Failure to deliver products on time to our automotive customers could adversely affect our financial results.  We have products in various stages of development for our automotive customers. If we do not complete our development efforts in time to meet our customers’ vehicle production requirements, we
could be subject to monetary penalties and damage our customer relationships, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, results of operations and financial condition. 
  15 


Table of Contents
Natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance.
 The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, floods, earthquakes, and
tsunamis, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks, in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in
physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers to reach or have transportation to our channel partners directly affected by such events, the
evacuation of the populace from areas in which our channel partners are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers’ disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of materials and products
from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our facilities within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of our
products in stores, the disruption of utility services to our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our facilities. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and have a material adverse effect on our consolidated net
sales, results of operations and financial condition.  Bankruptcy of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our
liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  A significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales
to customers in the automotive industry, where companies have experienced financial difficulties. As part of the bankruptcy process, our pre-petition receivables may not be realized, customer manufacturing sites may be closed or contracts
voided. The bankruptcy of a major customer could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  We depend on our suppliers for key production materials and any disruption in the supply of such materials could interrupt product manufacturing and increase product costs. 
Many of our suppliers have significantly decreased their manufacturing capacity and inventory levels. These steps taken by our suppliers
make us more vulnerable to disruptions in the supply chain. In the near term, an increase in our demand for parts may place an undue strain on our suppliers. Additionally, the supply of raw materials including, without limitation, petroleum, copper,
steel, aluminum, synthetic resins, rare metals and rare earth minerals, such as neodymium used in the production of loudspeakers, has been and could continue to be significantly constrained, which is likely to result in continued elevated price
levels. Furthermore, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act included disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict” minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries (DRC) and
procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict” minerals. While final rules are not yet implemented, these rules could limit the number of suppliers who can provide us DRC “conflict
free” components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain DRC conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices for our operations. We may also face challenges with our customers and suppliers if we are
unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. As a result, we may not be able to obtain the materials necessary to manufacture our products, which could force us to cease production or search for alternative
supply sources, possibly at a higher cost. Such disruptions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We may lose market share if we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors.  The audio and video product markets that we serve are fragmented, highly competitive, rapidly changing and characterized by intense price competition. Many manufacturers, large and small, domestic and
foreign, offer audio and video systems that vary widely in price and quality and are marketed through a variety of channels, including audio and video specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail order firms and the Internet. Some of
our competitors have financial and other resources greater than ours. We cannot assure you that we will continue to compete effectively against existing or new competitors that may enter our markets. We also compete indirectly with automobile
manufacturers that may improve the quality of original equipment audio and electronic systems, reducing demand for our aftermarket mobile audio products, or change the designs of their cars to make installation of our aftermarket products more
difficult or expensive. 
  16 


Table of Contents
If we do not continue to develop, introduce and achieve market acceptance of new and enhanced
products, our sales may decrease.  Our business is based on the demand for premium audio and video products. In order
to increase sales in current markets and gain entry into new markets, we must innovate to maintain and improve existing products, while successfully developing and introducing distinctive new and enhanced products that anticipate changing consumer
preferences and capitalize upon emerging technologies. We may experience difficulties that delay or prevent the development, introduction or market acceptance of new or enhanced products. Furthermore, we may be unable to detect and correct
defects in some of our products before we ship them. Delays or defects in new product introduction may result in loss of sales or delays in market acceptance. Even after introduction, our new or enhanced products may not satisfy consumer preferences
and product failures may cause consumers to reject our products. As a result, these products may not achieve market acceptance and our brand image could suffer. In addition, our competitors may introduce superior designs or business strategies,
impairing our distinctive image and our products’ desirability, which may cause consumers to defer or forego purchases of our products. 
Our success depends substantially on the value of our brands and our implementation of a sufficient brand protection program. 
Our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands, and our customers’
connection to our brands. Brand value can be severely damaged even by isolated incidents, particularly if the incidents receive considerable negative publicity or result in litigation. Some of these incidents may relate to our growth strategies, our
development efforts in domestic and foreign markets, or the ordinary course of our business. Other incidents may arise from events that are or may be beyond our ability to control and may damage our brands, such as counterfeit and knock-off
products, litigation and claims, and illegal activity targeted at us or others. Consumer demand for our products and our brands’ value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our
products, and if we do not implement a brand protection program that sufficiently addresses the issue of counterfeit and knock-off products, among other things, either of which would likely result in lower net sales and, ultimately, lower income,
which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  Covenants in our existing debt agreements
restrict our operations.  Our revolving credit facility and the indenture for our Convertible Senior Notes, as amended,
contain provisions that limit our operating and financing activities. Together, they limit our ability to, among other things:   


 
•
 
 incur additional indebtedness;   


 
•
 
 use a substantial portion of proceeds from sales of debt, equity or assets to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other
corporate requirements;   


 
•
 
 create or assume liens;   


 
•
 
 enter into sale-leaseback transactions;   


 
•
 
 engage in mergers or consolidations;   


 
•
 
 make capital expenditures or investments;   


 
•
 
 sell assets; and   


 
•
 
 modify or prepay certain material debt.  Because of the restrictions in these debt agreements, we may have difficulty securing additional financing in the form of additional indebtedness. In addition, our revolving credit facility
contains other and more restrictive covenants, including financial covenants that require us to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our
operations to maintain 
  17 


Table of Contents

compliance with these covenants. A violation of any of these covenants could result in a default under these debt agreements, which could permit the lenders to accelerate the repayment of
any borrowings outstanding at that time, and the lenders under the revolving credit facility could act on the collateral package granted in connection with the revolving credit facility. A default or acceleration under our debt agreements would
result in increased capital costs and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations and financial condition.  Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. 
A significant amount of our assets and operations are located, and the majority of our revenue is derived from sales outside the United
States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, especially the Euro. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our foreign operations and have a negative
impact on our financial results. In addition, we purchase certain foreign-made products. Although we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposure and, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially
offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure, we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our cost of purchasing these products could
negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers.  Our operations could be
harmed by factors including political instability and changes in regulations that govern international transactions. 
The risks inherent in international trade may reduce our international sales and harm our business and the businesses of our distributors
and suppliers. These risks include:   


 
•
 
 changes in tariff regulations;   


 
•
 
 political instability, war, terrorism and other political risks; 
 


 
•
 
 establishing and maintaining relationships with local distributors and dealers; 
 


 
•
 
 lengthy shipping times and accounts receivable payment cycles; 
 


 
•
 
 import and export licensing requirements;   


 
•
 
 compliance with foreign laws and regulations, including unexpected changes in taxation and regulatory requirements; 
 


 
•
 
 greater difficulty in safeguarding intellectual property rights than in the United States; and 
 


 
•
 
 difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations. 
These and other risks may, among other things, increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other
countries, reducing the demand for our products.  Our business could be adversely affected by a strike or work stoppage at one of our
manufacturing plants or at a facility of one of our significant customers or at a common carrier or major shipping location.  Workers at certain of our facilities and those of our automotive customers are unionized and may incur work stoppages or strikes. A work stoppage at our facilities or those of our automotive customers, or
at a common carrier or major shipping location, could have a material adverse effect on our net sales, results of operations and financial condition. The risk of issues of this type at our facilities may be exacerbated by the implementation of our
current or future cost reduction initiatives, which may involve significant staff reductions and facility relocations. 
  18 


Table of Contents
Obligations to correct product defects covered by our warranties could adversely affect our financial
results.  We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six
months to six years. Costs to correct product defects may exceed our estimates and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of our intellectual property rights, our business may decline. 
Our future success will depend, in substantial part, on our intellectual property. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights,
but our actions may not adequately protect the rights covered by our patents, patent applications, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and prosecution of our claims could be time consuming and costly. In addition, the intellectual property laws
of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as do the laws of the United States. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary information, third parties may obtain, disclose or use our proprietary information without our
authorization, which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, third parties have alleged that we infringe their proprietary rights. These claims or similar future claims could subject us to significant liability for damages, result in
the invalidation of our proprietary rights, limit our ability to use infringing intellectual property or force us to license third-party technology rather than dispute the merits of any infringement claim. Even if we prevail, any associated
litigation could be time consuming and expensive and could result in the diversion of our time and resources.  We are engaged in ongoing
litigation and may be the subject of additional litigation that may result in payments to third parties, which could harm our business and financial results.  We are currently involved in litigation arising out of or relating to the events leading up to the termination of the proposed acquisition of our Company in October 2007 and certain earnings guidance
provided by us. In addition, similar litigation has been and may be initiated against us and others based on the alleged activities and disclosures at issue in the pending litigation. We cannot predict the outcome of any such proceeding or
the likelihood that further proceedings will be instituted against us. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any legal proceeding, we may be required to make payments to third parties that could harm our business or cash flows or
financial results. Furthermore, regardless of the merits of any claim, the continued maintenance of these legal proceedings may result in substantial legal expense and could also result in the diversion of our management’s time and
attention away from our business.  We have deferred tax assets in our consolidated financial statements. 
Our consolidated financial statements include net deferred tax assets of $361.6 million as of June 30, 2012, which relate to
temporary differences between the assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the assets and liabilities in the calculation of taxable income. The valuation of deferred tax assets is based on various
projections for future taxable income reversing taxable temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Thus, when actual taxable income differs from projections, it may become necessary to adjust the valuation of our deferred tax assets,
which would impact our results of operations and financial condition.  Harman International Industries, Incorporated is a holding
company with virtually no operations of its own and therefore our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries.  Our ability to service our debt and pay dividends is dependent upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those
subsidiaries to Harman International Industries, Incorporated, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations.

  19 


Table of Contents
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior
management.  Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are
unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our future operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management,
including our chief executive officer, our business may be materially adversely affected. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do
not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time.  Any
acquisitions we make could disrupt our business and materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We may, from time to time, consider acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the acquired
businesses, the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns, the assumption of unknown liabilities, undisclosed risks impacting the target and potential adverse effects on existing business relationships with our
current customers and suppliers. In addition, any acquisitions could involve the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness or dilution to our stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions
that we undertake or that such acquisitions will perform as planned or prove to be beneficial to our operations and cash flows. Any such failure could materially harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
Increased IT security requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems,
networks, products, solutions, services and data.  Increased global IT security requirements, vulnerabilities, threats
and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. We also may have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or
information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls. Despite our efforts to protect sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and
those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or
information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could
adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations.  The demand for our infotainment products may be eroded by
replacement technologies becoming available on mobile handsets and tablets.  Sales of our infotainment products
represented more than half of our net sales in fiscal 2012. GPS/navigation technologies are increasingly being incorporated into devices such as mobile handsets and tablets. Mobile handsets are frequently GPS-enabled and many companies are now
offering navigation software for such devices. In future years, if auto makers choose to replace embedded infotainment systems with mobile handset devices, the acceptance of this technology by consumers may negatively impact the demand for our
infotainment products. If we do not continue to innovate to develop new and compelling products that capitalize upon new technologies, this could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. 
 


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 
None. 
  20 


Table of Contents


Item 2.
Properties  Our corporate headquarters are located at 400 Atlantic Street,
15th floor, Stamford, Connecticut, 06901. Certain
information regarding our principal facilities are described in the table below.   


















 Location
  
Segments
  
Size(Sq. Ft.)
 
  
OwnedorLeased
 
  
PercentageUtilization
 

 Ittersbach, Germany
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
565,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Nova Santa Rita, Brazil
  
Professional Lifestyle
  
 
432,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Dandong, China
  
Lifestyle Professional
  
 
323,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
30
% 

 Atlanta, Georgia
  
Lifestyle
  
 
305,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 

 Moreno Valley, California
  
Lifestyle Professional
  
 
301,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 

 Northridge, California
  
Lifestyle Professional
  
 
238,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
68
% 

 Straubing, Germany
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
235,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Elkhart, Indiana
  
Professional
  
 
223,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
86
% 

 Szekesfehervar, Hungary
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
222,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Chateau du Loir, France
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
221,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
75
% 

 Worth-Schaidt, Germany
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
204,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Tijuana, Mexico
  
Professional Lifestyle
  
 
198,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 

 Vienna, Austria
  
Professional Lifestyle
  
 
193,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
40
% 

 Queretaro, Mexico
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
188,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
70
% 

 Bridgend, United Kingdom
  
Lifestyle
  
 
168,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 

 Franklin, Kentucky
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
152,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Farmington Hills, Michigan
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
151,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 

 Suzhou, China
  
Infotainment Lifestyle
  
 
145,000
  
  
 
Owned
  
  
 
100
% 

 Sandy, Utah
  
Professional
  
 
127,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 

 Juarez, Mexico
  
Lifestyle
  
 
109,000
  
  
 
Leased
  
  
 
100
% 
 We also own or lease other facilities that are not considered principal properties. We believe that our
facilities are suitable and adequate for our present needs and that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available, if required.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  At
June 30, 2012, we were subject to legal claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, including the matters described below. The outcome of these legal actions cannot be predicted with certainty; however, management,
based upon advice from legal counsel, believes such actions are either without merit or will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
  21 


Table of Contents
In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation 
On October 1, 2007, a purported class action lawsuit was filed by Cheolan Kim (the “Kim Plaintiff”) against Harman and
certain of our officers in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (the “Court”) seeking compensatory damages and costs on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock between April 26, 2007 and
September 24, 2007 (the “Class Period”). The original complaint alleged claims for violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”) and Rule 10b-5
promulgated thereunder.  The complaint alleged that the defendants omitted to disclose material adverse facts about
Harman’s financial condition and business prospects. The complaint contended that had these facts not been concealed at the time the merger agreement with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners was
entered into, there would not have been a merger agreement, or it would have been at a much lower price, and the price of our common stock therefore would not have been artificially inflated during the Class Period. The Kim Plaintiff alleged
that, following the reports that the proposed merger was not going to be completed, the price of our common stock declined, causing the plaintiff class significant losses.  On November 30, 2007, the Boca Raton General Employees’ Pension Plan filed a purported class action lawsuit against Harman and certain of our officers in the Court seeking compensatory damages
and costs on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock between April 26, 2007 and September 24, 2007. The allegations in the Boca Raton complaint are essentially identical to the allegations in the original Kim complaint,
and like the original Kim complaint, the Boca Raton complaint alleges claims for violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. 
On January 16, 2008, the Kim Plaintiff filed an amended complaint. The amended complaint, which extended the Class Period
through January 11, 2008, contended that, in addition to the violations alleged in the original complaint, Harman also violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by “knowingly failing to
disclose “significant problems” relating to its portable navigation device sales forecasts, production, pricing, and inventory” prior to January 14, 2008. The amended complaint claimed that when “Defendants revealed for
the first time on January 14, 2008 that shifts in PND sales would adversely impact earnings per share by more than $1.00 per share in fiscal 2008,” that led to a further decline in our share value and additional losses to the plaintiff
class.  On February 15, 2008, the Court ordered the consolidation of the Kim action with the Boca Raton action, the
administrative closing of the Boca Raton action, and designated the short caption of the consolidated action as In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation, civil action no. 1:07-cv-01757 (RWR). That same day, the Court
appointed Arkansas Public Retirement System as lead plaintiff (“Lead Plaintiff”) and approved the law firm Cohen, Milstein, Hausfeld and Toll, P.L.L.C. to serve as lead counsel. 
On March 24, 2008, the Court ordered, for pretrial management purposes only, the consolidation of Patrick Russell v. Harman
International Industries, Incorporated, et al. with In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation.  On
May 2, 2008, Lead Plaintiff filed a consolidated class action complaint (the “Consolidated Complaint”). The Consolidated Complaint, which extends the Class Period through February 5, 2008, contends that Harman and certain of
our officers and directors violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, by issuing false and misleading disclosures regarding our financial condition in fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2008. In
particular, the Consolidated Complaint alleges that defendants knowingly or recklessly failed to disclose material adverse facts about MyGIG radios, portable navigation devices and our capital expenditures. The Consolidated Complaint alleges
that when Harman’s true financial condition became known to the market, the price of our common stock declined significantly, causing losses to the plaintiff class. 
  22 


Table of Contents
On July 3, 2008, defendants moved to dismiss the Consolidated Complaint in its
entirety. Lead Plaintiff opposed the defendants’ motion to dismiss on September 2, 2008, and defendants filed a reply in further support of their motion to dismiss on October 2, 2008. The motion is now fully briefed. As of
June 30, 2012, the case remained open with no new developments.  Patrick Russell v. Harman International
Industries, Incorporated, et al.  Patrick Russell (the “Russell Plaintiff”) filed a complaint on
December 7, 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and an amended purported putative class action complaint on June 2, 2008 against Harman and certain of our officers and directors alleging violations of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and seeking, on behalf of all participants in and beneficiaries of the Savings Plan, compensatory damages for losses to the Savings Plan as well as injunctive relief, imposition of
a constructive trust, restitution, and other monetary relief. The amended complaint alleges that from April 26, 2007 to the present defendants failed to prudently and loyally manage the Savings Plan’s assets, thereby breaching their
fiduciary duties in violation of ERISA by causing the Savings Plan to invest in our common stock notwithstanding that the stock allegedly was “no longer a prudent investment for the Participants’ retirement savings.” The amended
complaint further claims that, during the Class Period, defendants failed to monitor the Savings Plan fiduciaries, failed to provide the Savings Plan fiduciaries with, and to disclose to Savings Plan participants, adverse facts regarding Harman and
our businesses and prospects. The Russell Plaintiff also contends that defendants breached their duties to avoid conflicts of interest and to serve the interests of participants in and beneficiaries of the Savings Plan with undivided
loyalty. As a result of these alleged fiduciary breaches, the amended complaint asserts that the Savings Plan has “suffered substantial losses, resulting in the depletion of millions of dollars of the retirement savings and anticipated
retirement income of the Savings Plan’s Participants.”  On March 24, 2008, the Court ordered, for pretrial
management purposes only, the consolidation of Patrick Russell v. Harman International Industries, Incorporated, et al. with In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation. 
Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in its entirety on August 5, 2008. The Russell Plaintiff opposed the defendants’
motion to dismiss on September 19, 2008, and defendants filed a reply in further support of their motion to dismiss on October 20, 2008. The motion is now fully briefed. As of June 30, 2012, the case remained open with no new
developments.  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
Executive officers are appointed by our Board of Directors and hold office at the pleasure of the Board until the next annual meeting of
shareholders or until their successors are elected and qualified. Each of our current executive officers is identified below together with information about each officer’s age, position and employment history for the last five years.
  










 Name
  
 Position
  
Age
 

 Dinesh C. Paliwal
  
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
  
 
54
  

 Herbert K. Parker
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
  
 
54
  

 Blake Augsburger
  
Executive Vice President, President—Professional Division and Country Manager, North America
  
 
49
  

 Sachin Lawande
  
Executive Vice President and Co-President—Lifestyle and Infotainment Divisions
  
 
45
  

 Michael Mauser
  
Executive Vice President and Co-President—Infotainment and Lifestyle Divisions
  
 
49
  

 Dr. I.P. Park
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer
  
 
49
  

 David Slump
  
Executive Vice President, Corporate Development
  
 
44
  

 John Stacey
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
  
 
47
  

 Todd A. Suko
  
Executive Vice President and General Counsel
  
 
45
  

  23 


Table of Contents
Dinesh C. Paliwal became Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Harman on
July 1, 2008. Mr. Paliwal joined our Company on July 1, 2007 as President, Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman and was elected a director on August 13, 2007. Prior to joining our Company, Mr. Paliwal served as
President of Global Markets and Technology of ABB Ltd from January 2006 until June 2007 and as President and CEO of ABB North America from January 2004 until June 2007.  Herbert K. Parker joined our Company in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From August 15, 2008 until October 1, 2008, Mr. Parker also served as our
principal accounting officer. Prior to joining our Company, he served as Chief Financial Officer of ABB North America from January 2006 to May 2008.  Blake Augsburger joined our Company in 2001 as the President of Crown International. In 2006, Mr. Augsburger was promoted to Executive Vice President and President- Professional Division.
Mr. Augsburger also serves as Country Manager for North America. In 2011, Mr. Augsburger was named to the board of directors of Lakeland Financial.  Sachin Lawande joined our Company in 2001, and has served as our Executive Vice President and Co-President, Lifestyle and Infotainment Divisions since July 1, 2011. From January 2009 to February
2012, Mr. Lawande served as our Chief Technology Officer. From April 2010 to June 30, 2011, Mr. Lawande served as Co-President—Automotive Division. From 2008 to January 2009, Mr. Lawande served as Harman’s Chief
Innovation Officer, where he was responsible for guiding software strategy and key development partnerships and was instrumental in launching an offshore development center in India as part of Harman’s strategy for optimizing its global
footprint. From 2001 through 2008, Mr. Lawande served in various positions with QNX Software Systems, most recently as Vice President, Engineering Services.  Michael Mauser joined our Company in 1997, and has served as Executive Vice President and Co-President—Infotainment and Lifestyle Divisions since July 1, 2011. From April 2010 through
June 30, 2011, Mr. Mauser served as Executive Vice President and Co-President—Automotive Division. From May 2005 until April 2010, Mr. Mauser served as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of our Automotive
Division.  Dr. I.P. Park joined our Company in February 2012 as Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer.
Prior to joining our Company, he served as Vice President of Intelligent Computing Laboratory at Samsung Electronics, from September 2006 through December 2011. While at Samsung, Dr. Park headed advanced software R&D teams responsible for
developing Samsung’s future software technologies, and he provided leadership in core software research, standardization and open source activities. David Slump has served as our Executive Vice President, Corporate Development since July 1, 2011. From January 2009 through June 30, 2011, he served as President—Consumer Audio Division.
From January 2009 to May 2010, he also served as our Vice President, Corporate Development. Prior to joining our Company, from 2008 to January 2009, Mr. Slump served as Senior Vice President for Landis + Gyr Holdings, a leader in the energy
management industry, where he directed the company’s global brand strategy and evaluated portfolio and architecture investments. From 2007 until 2008, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Cellnet + Hunt Group. From 2003 to
2007, Mr. Slump held a variety of positions with General Electric, most recently as General Manager, Global Marketing. 
John Stacey joined our Company in February 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining our
Company, he was Vice President, People for InBev North America, InBev Central and Eastern Europe from 2005 through January 2008.  Todd A. Suko joined our Company in October 2008 as Executive Vice President and General Counsel. From October 2008 through December 2011 he also served as Secretary. Prior to joining our Company
Mr. Suko 
  24 


Table of Contents

served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary for UAP Holding Corp. and United Agri Products from 2001 to September 2008. Mr. Suko is a member of the bar in Washington, DC and
Virginia and is a Commander in the United States Navy Reserve.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not applicable 
  25 


Table of Contents
Part II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape under the symbol
HAR. As of July 31, 2012, there were approximately 105 record holders of our common stock.  The table below sets forth
the reported high and low sales prices for our common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, for each quarterly period for fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011. 
 




















 
  
Years Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 Market Price
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First quarter ended September 30
  
$
47.93
  
  
$
28.58
  
  
$
35.62
  
  
$
28.11
  

 Second quarter ended December 31
  
 
44.78
  
  
 
26.20
  
  
 
48.88
  
  
 
32.54
  

 Third quarter ended March 31
  
 
51.11
  
  
 
38.54
  
  
 
52.54
  
  
 
42.66
  

 Fourth quarter ended June 30
  
 
49.82
  
  
 
35.70
  
  
 
50.99
  
  
 
42.51
  
 Our Board of Directors reinstated the payment of a cash dividend in the third quarter of fiscal year
2011, which had been suspended in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. During fiscal year 2012, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.30 per share, with dividends of $0.075 declared in each quarter. During fiscal year 2011, we declared cash
dividends of $0.05 per share, with a dividend of $0.025 declared in the third and fourth quarters only.  On October 26,
2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million of our common stock. This buyback program allows us to purchase shares of our common stock in accordance with applicable securities laws on the open
market, or through privately negotiated transactions, through October 25, 2012. We will determine the timing and the amount of any repurchases based on an evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors. We entered into an
agreement with an external broker, which provides the structure under which the program may be facilitated. This agreement and the buyback program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of June 30, 2012, we have repurchased 3,246,409
shares under the buyback program.  The following table provides information about shares acquired in connection with our share
buyback program during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012:   




















 Period
  
Total Numberof SharesAcquiredDuringPeriod
 
  
Average PricePaid Per Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans
orPrograms
 
  
Maximum DollarAmountof Shares That MayYet Be PurchasedUnder
thePrograms
 

 April 1 – April 30
  
 
0
 
  
$
0
 
  
 
—  
  
  




 May 1 – May 31
  
 
1,000,400
 
  
 
40.57
 
  
 
1,000,400
 
  




 June 1 – June 30
  
 
2,246,009
 
  
 
37.08
 
  
 
2,246,009
 
  





  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
 
3,246,409
 
  
$
38.16
 
  
 
3,246,409
 
  
$
76,053,033
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For a description of limitations on repurchases of shares and on the payment of dividends, see
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition” located in Item 7 of Part II of this report. 
  26 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data 
The following table presents selected historical financial data derived from the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for each of the
five fiscal years presented. The information should be read in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” located in Item 7 of Part II of this report, and the audited
Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this report.   
























 (In thousands except per share data)
  
2012(1) (3)
 
  
2011(1) 
 
  
2010(1) (2)
 
  
2009(2)
 
 
2008
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,364,078
  
  
$
3,772,345
  
  
$
3,364,428
  
  
$
2,854,895
  
 
$
4,072,359
  

 Operating income (loss)
  
$
300,246
  
  
$
190,051
  
  
$
85,555
  
  
$
(503,812
) 
 
$
132,167
  

 Net income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
  
$
329,541
  
  
$
135,916
  
  
$
35,178
  
  
$
(422,345
) 
 
$
95,966
  

 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
123,591
  
  
$
(9,159
) 
 
$
5,757
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
329,541
  
  
$
135,916
  
  
$
164,058
  
  
$
(430,752
) 
 
$
101,302
  

 Net income (loss) attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
  
$
329,541
  
  
$
135,916
  
  
$
158,769
  
  
$
(431,504
) 
 
$
101,723
  

 Earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries,
Incorporated:
  



  



  



  



 




 Basic
  
$
4.62
  
  
$
1.91
  
  
$
0.50
  
  
$
(7.19
) 
 
$
1.56
  

 Diluted
  
$
4.57
  
  
$
1.90
  
  
$
0.50
  
  
$
(7.19
) 
 
$
1.54
  

 Earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations:
  



  



  



  



 




 Basic
  
$
0.00
  
  
$
0.00
  
  
$
1.76
  
  
$
(0.16
) 
 
$
0.09
  

 Diluted
  
$
0.00
  
  
$
0.00
  
  
$
1.75
  
  
$
(0.16
) 
 
$
0.09
  

 Earnings (loss) per share:
  



  



  



  



 




 Basic
  
$
4.62
  
  
$
1.91
  
  
$
2.26
  
  
$
(7.34
) 
 
$
1.65
  

 Diluted
  
$
4.57
  
  
$
1.90
  
  
$
2.25
  
  
$
(7.34
) 
 
$
1.64
  

 Weighted average shares outstanding:
  



  



  



  



 




 Basic
  
 
71,297
  
  
 
70,992
  
  
 
70,350
  
  
 
58,766
  
 
 
61,472
  

 Diluted
  
 
72,083
  
  
 
71,635
  
  
 
70,595
  
  
 
58,766
  
 
 
62,182
  

 Total assets
  
$
3,169,464
  
  
$
3,058,495
  
  
$
2,556,215
  
  
$
2,473,497
  
 
$
2,802,971
  

 Total debt
  
$
395,688
  
  
$
381,014
  
  
$
377,837
  
  
$
577,296
  
 
$
361,737
  

 Total equity
  
$
1,529,611
  
  
$
1,423,658
  
  
$
1,134,892
  
  
$
1,007,918
  
 
$
1,382,108
  

 Dividends per share
  
$
0.30
  
  
$
0.05
  
  
$
0.00
  
  
$
0.025
  
 
$
0.05
  
  


(1)
 Fiscal year
includes the consolidated balance sheets of MWM Acoustics and certain related entities (now known as Harman Embedded Audio), which we acquired on July 22, 2011, 3dB Research Limited (now known as Harman International Industries Canada Limited),
which we acquired on February 10, 2011, Aha, which we acquired on September 13, 2010, and Eletrônica Selenium S.A. (now known as Harman do Brasil), which we acquired on June 1, 2010. The results of operations for all acquired
companies are included in our Consolidated Statements of Income starting from the date of the respective acquisition. 


(2) 
 Includes a goodwill impairment charge of $12.3 million and $317.7 million in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. 


(3) 
 Net income includes a non-cash benefit of $124.2 million related to a reduction of our deferred tax valuation allowance on certain of our net U.S.
deferred tax assets. 
  27 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the information presented in other sections of this Annual Report on Form
10-K, including “Item 1. Business,” “Item 6. Selected Financial Data,” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” This discussion contains forward-looking statements which are based on our current
expectations and experience and our perception of historical trends, current market conditions, including customer acceptance of our new products, current economic data, expected future developments, including foreign currency exchange rates, and
other factors that we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested in the forward-looking statements. See “Risk
Factors” included in Item 1A of Part I of this report. Unless otherwise indicated, “Harman,” the “Company,” “we,” “our,” and “us” are used interchangeably to refer to Harman International
Industries, Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries. All amounts are in thousands unless otherwise indicated.  Executive
Overview  We believe we are a worldwide leader in the development, manufacturing and marketing of high
quality, high fidelity audio products and electronic systems, as well as digitally integrated audio and infotainment systems for the automotive industry. We have developed a broad range of product offerings which we sell in our principal markets
under our renowned brand names, including AKG®, Crown®, JBL®, Infinity®, Harman/Kardon®, Lexicon®, dbx®, BSS®, Studer®, Soundcraft®, Mark Levinson®, Becker®, Revel®, Logic 7® and Selenium®. We have built
these brands by developing our engineering, manufacturing and marketing competencies, and have employed these resources to establish our company as a leader in the markets we serve. 
We report our business on the basis of four segments. Our Infotainment, Lifestyle and Professional segments are based on our strategic
approach to the markets and customers we serve. Our fourth segment, Other, primarily includes compensation, benefit and occupancy costs for corporate employees, net of allocations and expenses associated with new technology innovation and our
corporate brand identity campaign.  We believe that innovation is an important element to gaining market acceptance of our
products and strengthening our market position. We have a history of leveraging our continuous technological innovation across all of the markets we serve. We have a well-deserved reputation for delivering premium audio and infotainment solutions
across a full spectrum of applications. We believe that our technological innovation, the quality of our products and our reputation for on-time delivery have resulted in Harman being awarded a substantial amount of Infotainment and Lifestyle
business. As of June 30, 2012, we have a cumulative estimated $16.1 billion of future awarded Infotainment and Lifestyle automotive business, which represents the estimated future lifetime net sales for all customers. This amount does not
represent firm customer orders. We calculate our awarded business using various assumptions, which we update annually, including global vehicle production forecasts, customer take rates for our products, revisions to product life cycle estimates and
the impact of annual price reductions, among other factors. We update our estimates quarterly by adding the value of new awards received and subtracting sales recorded during the quarter. We believe our currently awarded automotive business will
position us well for follow-on and new business with these existing customers.  Our management uses the amount of our future
awarded business for short- and long-term budgeting and forecasting, development of earnings guidance and for planning future corporate investment and other activities, such as capital expenditures and restructuring. Our future awarded business is
also an input used to approximate our enterprise value. We believe our investors utilize this information for a number of reasons, including evaluating our future financial performance over time, to model our financial results of operations, to
understand the risks inherent in our current operating plan, and as an input to approximate our enterprise value. However, our estimates of future awarded automotive business are forward-looking statements and may not actually be achieved. See the
risk factor “We may not realize sales represented by awarded business” in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of Part I of this report. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Our products are sold worldwide, with the largest markets located in the United States and
Germany. In the United States, our primary manufacturing facilities are located in Kentucky, Indiana and Utah. Outside of the United States, we have manufacturing facilities in Austria, Brazil, China, Hungary, France, Germany, Mexico and the United
Kingdom.  Our sales and earnings may vary due to the production schedules and model year changeovers of our automotive
customers, the holiday buying season for home audio products, customer acceptance of our products, the timing of new product introductions, product offerings by our competitors and general economic conditions. Since most of our businesses
operate using local currencies, our reported sales and earnings may also fluctuate due to foreign currency exchange rates, especially for the Euro.  We believe significant opportunities exist to grow our business in all three of our business segments in emerging markets such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. To execute on this strategy, we have
hired dedicated country staff and managers in these markets. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, sales grew in these emerging markets to $528.6 million, an increase of $123.7 million, or 30.6 percent over the prior fiscal year. During
the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, sales grew in these emerging markets to $404.9 million, an increase of $163.6 million, or 67.8 percent over the prior fiscal year. We expect our market share to continue to grow significantly in these
countries.  We continue to focus our efforts on improving our cost structure to enable us to remain competitive. We continue
to roll out our global marketing campaign, featuring some of the world’s most prominent artists such as Jennifer Lopez, Sir Paul McCartney and Tim McGraw, in order to increase brand awareness and support growth and market share gains across our
entire business.  Critical Accounting Policies  The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”), have a significant
impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates affect the carrying
values of assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements located in Item 8 of Part II of this report. However, we believe the following policies merit discussion due to their higher degree of judgment, estimation, or complexity. 
Revenue Recognition  Revenue is generally recognized at the time of product shipment or delivery, depending on when the passage of title to goods transfers to unaffiliated customers and when all of the following have
occurred: a firm sales agreement is in place, pricing is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably assured. Sales are reported net of estimated returns, discounts, rebates and incentives. Substantially all of our revenue transactions
involve the delivery of a physical product. Royalty income, which is not material, is recorded when earned based upon contract terms with licensees which provide for royalties. 
We enter into incentive agreements with certain automotive customers which relate to a specific program award. These incentives are
generally based on fixed payments paid by us to the automotive manufacturer, and are generally deferred, if certain criteria are met. The deferability criteria include the existence of legally enforceable rights, management’s ability and intent
to enforce the recoverability clauses and the ability to generate future earnings from the agreement in excess of the deferred amounts. Capitalized amounts are amortized, generally as a reduction to revenue, over the related program award term based
on our estimate of future volumes. Our estimates are reviewed regularly and the cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period such revisions become probable and estimable. 
  29 


Table of Contents
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
Our products are sold to customers in many different markets and geographic locations. Methodologies for estimating bad debt reserves
include specific reserves for known collectability issues and percentages applied to aged receivables based on historical experience. We must make judgments and estimates regarding accounts receivable that may become uncollectible. These estimates
affect our bad debt reserve and results of operations. We base these estimates on many factors including historical collection rates, the financial stability and size of our customers as well as the markets they serve and our analysis of aged
accounts receivable. Our judgments and estimates regarding collectability of accounts receivable have an impact on our consolidated financial statements.  Inventories  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost is determined principally by the first-in, first-out method. We establish reserves for our inventory which require us to analyze the aging and forecasted demand for our inventories, to forecast future product sales prices, pricing trends and
margins, and to make judgments and estimates regarding obsolete, damaged or excess inventory. Markdown percentages are determined based on our estimate of future demand and selling prices for our products. Future sales prices are determined based on
current and forecasted market expectations, as well as terms that have been established for future orders under automotive platform arrangements. Our inventory reserves primarily relate to our raw materials as our finished goods are primarily
produced to order. We calculate inventory reserves on raw materials by reviewing the levels of raw materials on-hand and comparing this to estimates of historical consumption and future demand in order to assess whether we have excess materials
on-hand. If it is determined that excess materials are in inventory, an appropriate inventory reserve is established. Inventory reserves on finished goods are primarily determined through inventory turnover measures. Products showing low turnover
rates are assigned a percentage reserve based on future estimates of sales volumes and margins. We make adjustments to our inventory reserves based on the identification of specific situations and increase our inventory reserves accordingly. As
changes in future economic or industry conditions occur, we revise the estimates that were used to calculate our inventory reserves.  If actual conditions are less favorable than those we have projected, we may need to increase our reserves for excess and obsolete inventories. Any increases in our reserves will adversely impact our
results of operations. Such reserves are not reduced until the product is sold.  At June 30, 2012 and 2011 our inventory
reserves were $61.9 million and $73.3 million, respectively. The decrease was primarily due to foreign currency translation. Refer to Note 4 – Inventories in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
 Goodwill  We assess goodwill for potential impairments annually each April 30, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the
asset. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair
value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a discounted cash flow methodology. This requires us to use significant judgment, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal
forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, the useful life over which cash flows will occur, determination of our weighted average cost of capital, and relevant market data. 
In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is,
a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then no
further testing of the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit is required. However, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then we perform a two-step goodwill
impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment to be recognized, if any. 
  30 


Table of Contents
The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, with
fair value of each reporting unit determined using established valuation techniques, specifically the market and income approaches. If the results of the first step indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value,
the second step of this test is conducted wherein the amount of any impairment is determined by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill in a reporting unit to the recorded amount of goodwill for that reporting unit. The implied fair value
of goodwill is calculated as the excess of fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. Should the fair values of the goodwill so calculated be less than the carrying value, an impairment is
recognized.  Other Intangible Assets  Intangible assets primarily consist of patents, trademarks and distribution agreements and are amortized over periods ranging from 10 months to 17 years. Other intangible assets are amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives. We believe that the straight-line method of amortization reflects an appropriate allocation of the cost of the intangible assets to earnings in proportion to the amount of economic benefits
obtained annually by our Company.  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
We review the recoverability of our long-lived assets, including buildings, equipment and other definite-lived intangible assets, when
events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of the asset from the expected future
cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations. If these cash flows are less than the carrying value of such asset, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between estimated fair value and carrying
value. Our primary measure of fair value is based on discounted cash flows. We will continue to monitor the need for impairment tests, which could result in additional non-cash impairment charges. We recognized $0.6 million and $1.2 million in
impairment charges related to facilities that were held-for-sale in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2010, respectively. We did not record any impairment charges for long-lived assets in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011.
 Pre-Production and Development Costs  We incur pre-production and development costs related to infotainment systems that we develop for automobile manufacturers pursuant to long-term supply arrangements. Portions of these costs are
reimbursable under separate agreements and are recorded as unbilled costs in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other current assets and Other assets, once an agreement is signed. We believe that the terms of our supply contracts and our established
relationships with these automobile manufacturers reasonably assure that we will collect the reimbursable portions of these contracts. 
Accrued Warranties 
We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six months to six years from the
date of purchase, depending on the business segment and product. Our dealers and warranty service providers normally perform warranty service in field locations and regional service centers, using parts and replacement finished goods we supply on an
exchange basis. Our dealers and warranty service providers also install updates we provide to correct defects covered by our warranties. Estimated warranty liabilities are based upon past experience with similar types of products, the technological
complexity of certain products, replacement cost and other factors. If estimates of warranty provisions are no longer adequate based on our analysis of current activity, incremental provisions are recorded as warranty expense in our Consolidated
Statement of Income. We take these factors into consideration when assessing the adequacy of our warranty provision for periods still open to claim. Refer to Note 6 – Accrued Warranties in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Income Taxes and Tax Valuation Allowances 
We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and amounts reported
in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate all available positive and negative evidence in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any asset recorded in our Consolidated
Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to an amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability,
our ability to project future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. If we continue to operate at a loss in certain jurisdictions or are unable to generate sufficient
future taxable income within the defined lives of such assets, we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against all or a significant portion of our deferred tax assets. This increase in valuation allowance could result in substantial
increases in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Conversely, if and when our operations in some jurisdictions become sufficiently profitable before what we have estimated in our current
forecasts, we would be required to reduce all or a portion of our current valuation allowance and such reversal would result in an increase in our earnings in such period. We recorded a total non-cash tax benefit from continuing operations of $126.3
million for the year ended June 30, 2012, of which $124.2 million was recorded as a discrete benefit in the third quarter of fiscal year 2012. Refer to Note 13 – Income Taxes in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
more information. Adjustments to our valuation allowance from continuing operations, through charges to income tax (benefit) expense, were $0.2 million and $4.8 million for the years ending June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves evaluating uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize
liabilities for unrecognized tax positions in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether and the extent to which additional taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal
of the liabilities would result in additional tax benefits recognized in the period in which we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to
expense would result. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense.  Severance and Exit Costs
 We recognize liabilities for severance and exit costs based upon the nature of the liability incurred. For involuntary
separation programs that are conducted according to the guidelines of our written involuntary separation plan or according to the provisions of collective bargaining agreements or statutes, we recognize the liability when it is probable and
reasonably estimable. For one-time termination benefits, such as additional severance pay, and other exit costs, such as lease and other contract termination costs, the liability is measured and originally recognized at fair value in the period in
which the liability is incurred, with subsequent changes recognized in earnings in the period of change. Refer to Note 15 – Restructuring in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 
Share-Based Compensation  Share-based compensation expense is recognized based on the estimated fair value of stock options and similar equity instruments awarded to employees. Refer to Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity
and Share-Based Compensation in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.   Discontinued
Operations  The results of operations of businesses that have been sold are presented separately as Income from
discontinued operations, net of income taxes, in our Consolidated Statements of Income, in the current and prior periods, where applicable. Refer to Note 3 – Discontinued Operations in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for more information. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Change in Segments  Effective July 1, 2011, we revised our business segments in order to better align them with our strategic approach to the markets and customers we serve. While our Professional segment was largely
unaffected, we reorganized our Automotive and Consumer segments and created two new segments, Infotainment and Lifestyle. The Infotainment segment includes our infotainment business, which was previously reported in our Automotive segment, and Aha
Mobile, (“Aha”), a business we acquired in September 2010, which was previously reported in our Other segment. Our Lifestyle segment includes our automotive audio business, which was previously reported in our Automotive segment, our
Consumer segment, which was previously reported as a standalone segment, and our luxury home audio business, which was previously reported in our Professional segment. Our Professional segment includes our Professional segment, as previously
reported, excluding our luxury home audio business. Prior period segment amounts throughout the consolidated financial statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been reclassified
to conform to the current segment structure.  Results of Operations  Net Sales  Fiscal year 2012 net sales were $4.364 billion, an
increase of 15.7 percent compared to the prior fiscal year or 17.4 percent excluding foreign currency translation. Foreign currency translation had an unfavorable impact of $54.4 million when compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in net
sales was primarily in our Infotainment and our Lifestyle segments, and was partially driven by new infotainment product launches and higher production volumes partially driven by a temporary increase in sales due to the inability of a competitor to
supply its customers, increases in sales of our audio products to automotive manufacturers, surcharges to certain automotive audio customers to recover increased costs on rare earth minerals, increases in net sales of scalable and mid-level
infotainment systems and the addition of MWM Acoustics LLC and certain related entities (“MWM Acoustics”) in our Lifestyle segment.  Fiscal year 2011 net sales were $3.772 billion, an increase of 12.1 percent compared to the prior fiscal year or 12.7 percent excluding foreign currency translation. Foreign currency translation had an
unfavorable impact of $17.4 million when compared to the prior fiscal year. Each of our three business segments reported higher net sales compared to the prior fiscal year although the increase in overall net sales was primarily attributable to our
Infotainment and Professional segments.  A summary of our net sales, by business segment, is presented below: 
 




























 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

  
  
2012
 
  
Percentage
 
 
2011
 
  
Percentage
 
 
2010
 
  
Percentage
 

 Infotainment
  
$
2,401,562
  
  
 
55.0
% 
 
$
2,088,599
  
  
 
55.4
% 
 
$
1,836,194
  
  
 
54.6
% 

 Lifestyle
  
 
1,330,798
  
  
 
30.5
% 
 
 
1,087,270
  
  
 
28.8
% 
 
 
1,023,532
  
  
 
30.4
% 

 Professional
  
 
630,731
  
  
 
14.5
% 
 
 
595,687
  
  
 
15.8
% 
 
 
504,029
  
  
 
15.0
% 

 Other
  
 
987
  
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
789
  
  
 
0.0
% 
 
 
673
  
  
 
0.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
4,364,078
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,772,345
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
$
3,364,428
  
  
 
100.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 Infotainment—Infotainment net sales increased 15.0 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to
the prior fiscal year, or 17.3 percent excluding foreign currency translation. The increase in net sales was driven by increases in scalable infotainment system net sales, new product launches, higher production volumes and extension of current
product offerings on new vehicle platforms, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $40.6 million. In addition, we had a temporary increase in net sales in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 due to the inability of one of
our competitors to supply its customers, as a result of the Japanese earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. 
  33 


Table of Contents
Infotainment net sales increased 13.7 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior
fiscal year, or 14.5 percent excluding foreign currency translation. The increase in net sales was primarily due to new infotainment business awards with European automobile manufacturers and overall production recovery, partially offset by
unfavorable foreign currency translation of $12.8 million and the exit of the PND distribution channel in January 2010, which contributed $68.0 million of net sales in fiscal year 2010. 
Lifestyle—Lifestyle net sales increased 22.4 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year, or 23.8 percent
excluding foreign currency translation. The increase in net sales was primarily due to higher automotive audio net sales in Europe and North America, surcharges to certain automotive audio customers to recover increased costs on rare earth minerals,
the addition of MWM Acoustics, and increases in home and multimedia product sales, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $12.2 million.  Lifestyle net sales increased 6.2 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year, or 7.2 percent excluding foreign currency translation. The increase in net sales was primarily due to
higher automotive audio net sales, and increased home audio market share in Latin America, aided by $41.0 million of Harman do Brasil (formerly known as Selenium) net sales, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency translation of $9.2
million.  Professional—Professional net sales increased 5.9 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior
fiscal year, both including and excluding foreign currency translation. The increase in net sales was primarily due to new product introductions and the development of emerging market distribution channels, partially offset by unfavorable foreign
currency translation of $1.6 million.  Professional net sales increased 18.2 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior
fiscal year, or 17.1 percent excluding foreign currency translation. The increase in net sales was primarily due to increased market share in Latin America, aided by $39.0 million of Harman do Brasil net sales, improvements in overall market
conditions, specifically within our loudspeaker, digital signal processing, mixing and microphone/headphone business units and favorable foreign currency translation of $4.6 million.  Gross Profit  Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased
0.9 percentage points to 27.1 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased in our Infotainment segment primarily due to higher sales volumes leveraged over a lower cost base
driven by productivity improvement programs and favorable product mix. Gross profit as a percentage of net sales declined in our Lifestyle and Professional segments due to higher costs for rare earth neodymium magnets, a key component in speakers
and investments in production capacity to support future growth.  Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 0.1
percentage points to 26.2 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily in our Infotainment and Lifestyle segments and was primarily due to unfavorable product
mix and reduced material cost savings due to tighter component and raw material supply constraints, partially offset by improved leverage of fixed overhead costs due to higher sales volumes. 
  34 


Table of Contents
A summary of our gross profit by business segment is presented below: 
 




























 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

  
  
2012
 
  
Percentageof NetSales
 
 
2011
 
  
Percentageof NetSales
 
 
2010
 
 
Percentageof NetSales
 

 Infotainment
  
$
557,349
  
  
 
23.2
% 
 
$
405,491
  
  
 
19.4
% 
 
$
365,950
  
 
 
19.9
% 

 Lifestyle
  
 
382,943
  
  
 
28.8
% 
 
 
337,931
  
  
 
31.1
% 
 
 
326,310
  
 
 
31.9
% 

 Professional
  
 
242,147
  
  
 
38.4
% 
 
 
243,115
  
  
 
40.8
% 
 
 
196,608
  
 
 
39.0
% 

 Other
  
 
1,707
  
  
 
*
  
 
 
813
  
  
 
*
  
 
 
(3,710
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
$
1,184,146
  
  
 
27.1
% 
 
$
987,350
  
  
 
26.2
% 
 
$
885,158
  
 
 
26.3
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
 



  


*
Not meaningful. 
Infotainment— Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased 3.8 percentage points to 23.2 percent for the year ended
June 30, 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to higher sales volumes leveraged over a lower cost base driven by productivity improvement programs and favorable
product mix related to increases in scalable infotainment systems net sales.  Infotainment gross profit as a percentage of net
sales decreased 0.5 percentage points to 19.4 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to unfavorable product mix, specifically an increase in lower
margin infotainment business. Gross profit was also negatively impacted by a $3.7 million customer claim related to defective third-party software. These decreases were partially offset by improved leverage of fixed overhead costs due to higher
sales volumes and savings achieved through our STEP Change cost reduction program.  Lifestyle—Lifestyle gross
profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 2.3 percentage points to 28.8 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to the dilutive impact from our
implementation of a rare earth mineral cost surcharge program and investments in production capacity to support future growth. The surcharges only recover the increased cost of the rare earth minerals and therefore provide no gross profit,
resulting in a decline in gross profit as a percentage of net sales.  Lifestyle gross profit as a percentage of net sales
decreased 0.8 percentage points to 31.1 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to a temporary reduction in higher margin automotive audio business
due to customer production facility shutdowns as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan. Our gross profit was also negatively impacted by a raw material price increase related to supply constraints of rare earth minerals used in the
manufacture of speakers. These decreases were partially offset by favorable gross margin in our home audio business from Harman do Brasil, lower inventory write-offs in our home audio business, improved leverage of fixed overhead costs due to higher
sales volumes and savings achieved through our STEP Change cost reduction program and lower warranty expense. 
Professional—Professional gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased 2.4 percentage points to 38.4 percent in fiscal
year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to higher net costs for rare earth neodymium magnets, a key component in speakers, investments in production capacity to support
future growth and higher freight costs.  Professional gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased 1.8 percentage
points to 40.8 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was primarily due to our pricing power, a favorable product mix shift, lower restructuring charges, savings
achieved through our STEP Change cost reduction program and new product introductions. 
  35 


Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) were $884.2 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to $813.8 million in
the prior fiscal year, an increase of $70.4 million. The increase in SG&A was primarily due to higher research and development (“R&D”) expenses of $27.2 million and higher selling and advertising expenses, partially offset by
favorable foreign currency translation of $9.1 million and the receipt of $4.0 million of business interruption insurance proceeds related to the Japanese earthquake and tsunami. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 1.3 percentage points
to 20.3 percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses were $331.9 million, or 7.6 percent of net sales, in fiscal year 2012 compared to $304.6 million, or 8.1 percent of net sales, in the prior fiscal year.
 SG&A were $813.8 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to $774.2 million in the prior fiscal year, an increase of $39.6
million. The increase in SG&A was primarily due to higher overall selling and marketing expenses and SG&A attributable to Harman do Brasil, partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation of $7.6 million and a $5.9 million
decrease in charges for claims related to infotainment supply arrangements compared to the prior fiscal year. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 1.4 percentage points to 21.6 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal
year. R&D expenses were $304.6 million, or 8.1 percent of net sales, in fiscal year 2011 compared to $322.7 million, or 9.6 percent of net sales, in the prior fiscal year.  We continued to incur costs relating to our restructuring programs, which were designed to address our global footprint, cost structure, technology portfolio, human resources and internal
processes. We recorded restructuring charges in SG&A of $6.0 million, $16.5 million and $13.5 million in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Restructuring is further described under the caption “Restructuring”
later in this discussion.  A summary of our SG&A by business segment is presented below: 
 




























 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

  
  
2012
 
  
Percentageof NetSales
 
 
2011
 
  
Percentageof NetSales
 
 
2010
 
  
Percentageof NetSales
 

 Infotainment
  
$
377,125
  
  
 
15.7
% 
 
$
344,388
  
  
 
16.5
% 
 
$
350,258
  
  
 
19.1
% 

 Lifestyle
  
 
241,039
  
  
 
18.1
% 
 
 
236,277
  
  
 
21.7
% 
 
 
228,876
  
  
 
22.4
% 

 Professional
  
 
159,559
  
  
 
25.3
% 
 
 
152,447
  
  
 
25.6
% 
 
 
126,023
  
  
 
25.0
% 

 Other
  
 
106,477
  
  
 
*
  
 
 
80,697
  
  
 
*
  
 
 
69,032
  
  
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
884,200
  
  
 
20.3
% 
 
$
813,809
  
  
 
21.6
% 
 
$
774,189
  
  
 
23.0
% 


  
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



 
  
  
 
  



  


*
Not meaningful. 
Infotainment—Infotainment SG&A increased $32.7 million to $377.1 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal
year. The increase in SG&A was primarily due to $29.2 million of higher R&D expenses, partially offset by favorable foreign currency translation of $5.7 million. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 0.8 percentage points to 15.7
percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses increased $29.2 million to $231.0 million, or 9.6 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2012, compared to $201.8 million, or 9.7 percent of net sales in the prior fiscal
year. The increase in R&D expenses was primarily related to new product launches.  Infotainment SG&A decreased $5.9
million to $344.4 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The decrease in SG&A was primarily due to a net decrease in R&D expenses of $23.0 million, favorable foreign currency translation of $4.8 million and a $5.9
million decline in charges related to infotainment supply arrangements, partially offset by higher general and administrative expenses. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 2.6 percentage points to 16.5 percent in fiscal year 2011
compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses decreased $23.0 million to $201.8 million, or 9.7 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2011 compared to $224.8 million, or 12.2 percent of net sales in the prior fiscal year. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Lifestyle—Lifestyle SG&A increased $4.8 million to $241.0 million in fiscal
year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in SG&A was primarily due to higher selling expenses, increased start-up costs in emerging markets and the addition of MWM Acoustics. These increases were partially offset by the receipt
of $4.0 million of business interruption insurance proceeds related to the Japanese earthquake and tsunami and favorable foreign currency translation of $2.6 million. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 3.6 percentage points to 18.1
percent in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses increased $2.1 million to $58.3 million, or 4.4 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2012, compared to $56.3 million, or 5.2 percent of net sales in the prior fiscal
year.  Lifestyle SG&A increased $7.4 million to $236.3 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The
increase in SG&A was primarily due to additional SG&A related to Harman do Brasil and higher selling expenses in Europe related to the home audio and multimedia business, partially offset by a net decrease in R&D expenses of $4.0
million. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 0.7 percentage points to 21.7 percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses decreased $4.0 million to $56.3 million, or 5.2 percent of net sales in fiscal
year 2011 compared to $60.2 million, or 5.9 percent of net sales in the prior fiscal year. 
Professional—Professional SG&A increased $7.1 million to $159.6 million in fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal
year. The increase in SG&A was primarily due to higher restructuring expenses and higher selling expenses, partially offset by lower R&D expenses. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A decreased 0.3 percentage points to 25.3 percent in
fiscal year 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses decreased $2.1 million to $33.5 million, or 5.3 percent of net sales in fiscal year 2012, compared to $35.6 million, or 6.0 percent of net sales in the prior fiscal year.
 Professional SG&A increased $26.4 million to $152.4 million in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. The
increase in SG&A was primarily due to SG&A attributable to Harman do Brasil, higher R&D expenses and unfavorable foreign currency translation of $0.9 million. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A increased 0.6 percentage points to 25.6
percent in fiscal year 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year. R&D expenses increased $2.6 million to $35.6 million, or 6.0 percent of net sales, compared to $33.0 million or 6.6 percent of net sales in the prior fiscal year. 
Other—Other SG&A primarily includes compensation, benefit and occupancy costs for our corporate employees and expenses
associated with new technology innovation and our corporate brand identity campaign. Other SG&A increased $25.8 million to $106.5 million in fiscal year 2012 primarily due to higher R&D expenses associated with new corporate technology,
investments in new technology innovation utilizing new and emerging technologies which are currently not product specific and higher advertising and marketing expenses related to the launch of our global brand awareness campaign. 
Other SG&A increased $11.7 million to $80.7 million in fiscal year 2011 primarily due to higher R&D expenses associated with new
corporate technology, higher advertising expenses and higher corporate development expenses.  Sale of Intellectual Property
 Effective February 15, 2011, we entered into an agreement with a third party pursuant to which we monetized
certain intellectual property rights. Income of $0.3 million and $16.5 million was recognized in connection with this transaction in our Infotainment segment and is included in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal years ended
June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively under the line item Sale of intellectual property. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Loss on Deconsolidation of Variable Interest Entity 
In December 2009, we determined that we were no longer the primary beneficiary of a joint venture which was considered a variable interest
entity and previously required consolidation. Since we were no longer the primary beneficiary, in December 2009 we deconsolidated the Harman Navis, Inc. joint venture which resulted in an overall loss of $13.1 million in our Infotainment segment and
is included in our Consolidated Statement of Income as loss on deconsolidation of variable interest entity for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The loss resulted primarily from the difference between the fair value of the consideration
received for the disposal of our equity interest and the net asset value of the joint venture that was deconsolidated.  Restructuring
 Our restructuring program that is designed to improve our global footprint, cost structure, technology portfolio,
human resources and internal processes continues. During fiscal year 2012, we continued to refine and expand on activities launched in prior years and significant new programs were launched to: (i) optimize certain research and development and
supply chain functions; (ii) outsource certain manufacturing capabilities; and (iii) divest or sublease facilities no longer needed to support current operations. In fiscal year 2011, we announced the relocation of certain manufacturing
activities from Washington, Missouri to Mexico and the outsourcing of certain manufacturing activities to third party suppliers. In fiscal year 2010, we announced the relocation of certain manufacturing activities from the United Kingdom to Hungary,
a consolidation and optimization of our manufacturing capabilities in China and the exit of the PND distribution channel in Germany.  A summary and components of our restructuring initiatives are presented below and include accruals for new programs as well as revisions to estimates, both increases and decreases, to programs accrued in
prior periods:   
























 
  
SeveranceRelatedCosts
 
 
Third PartyContractorTermination Costs
 
 
Facility Closureand OtherRelated Costs
 
 
AssetImpairments(1)

 
 
Total
 

 Liability, June 30, 2009
  
$
67,930
  
 
$
308
  
 
$
8,633
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
76,871
  

 Expense(2)
  
 
10,049
  
 
 
(277
) 
 
 
3,222
  
 
 
4,880
  
 
 
17,874
  

 Accumulated depreciation offset
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,880
) 
 
 
(4,880
) 

 Payments
  
 
(41,186
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(4,299
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(45,518
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(3,757
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,749
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liability, June 30, 2010
  
$
33,036
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
7,562
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
40,598
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expense(2)
  
 
10,541
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,542
  
 
 
5,564
  
 
 
20,647
  

 Accumulated depreciation offset
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,564
) 
 
 
(5,564
) 

 Payments
  
 
(15,231
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,346
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(19,577
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
3,416
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,518
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liability, June 30, 2011
  
$
31,762
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
7,860
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
39,622
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expense(2)
  
 
(1,008
) 
 
 
315
  
 
 
7,146
  
 
 
2,696
  
 
 
9,149
  

 Accumulated depreciation offset
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,696
) 
 
 
(2,696
) 

 Payments
  
 
(8,434
) 
 
 
(298
) 
 
 
(4,169
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(12,901
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(2,382
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,380
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liability, June 30, 2012
  
$
19,938
  
 
$
17
  
 
$
10,839
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
30,794
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Credits related to restructuring charges for accelerated depreciation and inventory provisions are recorded against the related assets in Property,
plant & equipment, net or Inventories in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and do not impact the restructuring liability. 


(2) 
 Restructuring expenses noted above are primarily in SG&A in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Asset impairments, which consist of accelerated
depreciation and inventory provisions are primarily in Cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Restructuring liabilities are recorded in Accrued liabilities and Other non-current
liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Restructuring expenses by reporting business segment are presented below:
  
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Infotainment
  
$
(1,458
) 
 
$
5,949
  
  
$
(3,330
) 

 Lifestyle
  
 
169
  
 
 
7,062
  
  
 
13,689
  

 Professional
  
 
8,459
  
 
 
1,835
  
  
 
2,191
  

 Other
  
 
(717
) 
 
 
237
  
  
 
444
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
6,453
  
 
 
15,083
  
  
 
12,994
  

 Asset impairments
  
 
2,696
  
 
 
5,564
  
  
 
4,880
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
9,149
  
 
$
20,647
  
  
$
17,874
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Goodwill  In September 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2011-08, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-08”),
under which an entity may first assess qualitative factors in determining whether it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to
perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. In fiscal year 2012, we did not elect to first assess the qualitative factors in evaluating our goodwill for impairment; therefore, we proceeded with our quantitative goodwill impairment test. Refer to
the heading “Goodwill” above and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 
We test for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of April 30th of every year and between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for more information on how we test goodwill for impairment. The annual goodwill impairment tests conducted as of April 30, 2012 and 2011 indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value
and, as such, no impairments were deemed to exist.  Effective July 1, 2011, we revised our business segments in order to
better align them with our strategic approach to the markets and customers we serve. Under this new structure, our reportable segments consist of the Infotainment, Lifestyle, Professional and Other segments. Our reporting units are the same as our
reportable segments with the exception of our Lifestyle segment, which consists of two reporting units, automotive audio and home audio. In connection with this realignment, we reallocated our goodwill to our new reporting units based on each
reporting unit’s relative fair value. We also performed a goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2011 using our new reporting units and determined that the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its carrying value, therefore,
no impairments were deemed to exist as of this date. Refer to Note 17 – Business Segment Data in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 
During the first half of fiscal year 2010, we determined that goodwill related to our Infotainment segment and a reporting unit within
our Lifestyle segment were impaired and we recognized impairment charges of $7.4 million and $4.9 million, respectively, in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. During the second half of fiscal year
2010, as a result of the sustained improvements in the operating results of these reporting units due to improvements in economic conditions and realized savings resulting from our cost cutting initiatives, we performed a goodwill impairment test
which demonstrated that the calculated fair value of our reporting units exceeded the respective carrying values and therefore no impairments 
  39 


Table of Contents

existed in any of our reporting units. As a result, we ceased recognizing goodwill impairment charges associated with incremental goodwill that was recognized related to contingent
purchase price arrangements.  Goodwill was $180.8 million at June 30, 2012 compared with $119.4 million at June 30,
2011. The increase in goodwill in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 versus the prior fiscal year is primarily related to goodwill associated with to the MWM Acquisition of $79.8 million offset to a certain extent by foreign currency
translation. Refer to Note 2 – Acquisitions in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.  Goodwill was $119.4 million at June 30, 2011 compared with $105.9 million at June 30, 2010. The increase in goodwill in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 versus the prior fiscal year is
primarily related to foreign currency translation, contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of innovative Systems GmbH (“IS”) of $5.7 million and goodwill related to the acquisition of 3dB Research Limited of
$0.6 million, offset by approximately $4.5 million of purchase price adjustments for prior year acquisitions, primarily related to the acquisition of Eletrônica Selenium S.A. Refer to Note 2 – Acquisitions in the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of IS is calculated pursuant to the terms of an agreement between the parties. On March 31, 2011, the IS sellers
sent us a letter to exercise their option to have the value of the future contingent purchase consideration determined by a major international accounting firm. The parties are currently disputing certain terms under such agreement and until such
time as the dispute is resolved we will not be able to calculate the final purchase price.  The changes in the carrying amount
of goodwill by business segment for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows:   
























 
  
Infotainment
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
Professional
 
 
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Balance, June 30, 2010
  
$
3,701
  
 
$
33,112
  
 
$
69,109
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
105,922
  

 Acquisitions and adjustments
  
 
0
  
 
 
(1,476
) 
 
 
(2,426
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(3,902
) 

 Contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of IS
  
 
3,465
  
 
 
2,272
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
5,737
  

 Other adjustments(1)
  
 
903
  
 
 
5,259
  
 
 
5,438
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
11,600
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2011
  
$
8,069
  
 
$
39,167
  
 
$
72,121
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
119,357
  

 Acquisitions and adjustments
  
 
0
  
 
 
79,757
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
79,757
  

 Contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of IS
  
 
(1,258
) 
 
 
(825
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(2,083
) 

 Other adjustments(1)
  
 
(955
) 
 
 
(8,154
) 
 
 
(7,111
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(16,220
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2012
  
$
5,856
  
 
$
109,945
  
 
$
65,010
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
180,811
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The other adjustments to goodwill primarily consist of foreign currency translation adjustments. 
Operating Income 
Fiscal year 2012 operating income was $300.2 million, or 6.9 percent of net sales. This represents an increase of 1.9 percentage
points compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher net sales.  Fiscal year
2011 operating income was $190.1 million, or 5.0 percent of net sales. This represents an increase of 2.5 percentage points compared to the prior fiscal year. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher net sales. 
  40 


Table of Contents
A summary of our operating income (loss) by business segment is presented below: 
 




























 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
Percentageof NetSales
 
 
2011
 
 
Percentageof NetSales
 
 
2010
 
 
Percentageof NetSales
 

 Infotainment
  
$
180,529
  
 
 
7.5
% 
 
$
77,384
  
 
 
3.7
% 
 
$
(4,885
) 
 
 
(0.3
)% 

 Lifestyle
  
 
141,899
  
 
 
10.7
% 
 
 
101,883
  
 
 
9.4
% 
 
 
92,567
  
 
 
9.0
% 

 Professional
  
 
82,588
  
 
 
13.1
% 
 
 
90,668
  
 
 
15.2
% 
 
 
70,584
  
 
 
14.0
% 

 Other
  
 
(104,770
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
(79,884
) 
 
 
*
  
 
 
(72,711
) 
 
 
*
  


  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
$
300,246
  
 
 
6.9
% 
 
$
190,051
  
 
 
5.0
% 
 
$
85,555
  
 
 
2.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



  


*
Not meaningful.  Interest Expense, Net
 Interest expense is reported net of interest income in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Interest expense, net
was $20.1 million, $22.6 million and $30.2 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Gross interest expense was $27.0 million, $32.5 million and $33.8 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively, of which $19.1 million, $19.3 million and $17.4 million, respectively, was non-cash interest expense associated with the amortization of the debt discount on the 1.25 percent Convertible Senior Notes due October 2012
(the “Convertible Senior Notes”), and the amortization of debt issuance costs on the Convertible Senior Notes and our revolving credit facilities, and $7.9 million, $13.2 million and $16.4 million was cash interest expense for the fiscal
years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Interest income was $6.9 million, $9.9 million and $3.6 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Refer to the heading “Revolving Credit
Facility” below for more information on our revolving credit facility.  Cash interest expense primarily relates to
interest for the Convertible Senior Notes, our short-term borrowings and our revolving credit facility. Interest income primarily relates to interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investment balances and the variances from year
to year are due to fluctuations in those balances and changes in interest rates. Non-cash interest expense is associated with the amortization of the debt discount on the Convertible Senior Notes and amortization of debt issuance costs on the
Convertible Senior Notes and our revolving credit facilities. The decrease in interest expense, net in fiscal year 2012 compared with the prior fiscal year is primarily due to lower cash interest expense. The decrease in interest expense, net in
fiscal year 2011 compared with the prior fiscal year is due to the fact that we had no borrowings under the existing revolving credit facility in fiscal year 2011 and lower overall interest rates. 
Foreign Exchange Losses, Net  Foreign currency exchange gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are included in Foreign exchange losses, net in our
Consolidated Statements of Income. Effective July 1, 2011, we changed the functional currency of two of our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. Dollar to reflect a change in the currency in which such subsidiaries primarily generate and
expend cash. In addition, we recognized approximately $1.4 million as Foreign exchange losses, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income in fiscal year 2012, due to the revaluation of certain derivative instruments held at these subsidiaries
because we did not meet the requisite documentation requirements to attain hedge accounting treatment. As of January 1, 2012, the documentation was amended to achieve hedge accounting treatment going forward. We also include gains and
losses from forward points on certain derivative foreign currency forward contracts that are excluded from hedge effectiveness testing in Foreign exchange losses, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Refer to Note 10 –
Derivatives in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 
  41 


Table of Contents
Miscellaneous, Net  We recorded miscellaneous expenses, net, of $5.8 million, $6.3 million and $5.3 million in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily consisting of bank charges. Bank charges were $5.7
million, $5.9 million and $5.3million in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Income Taxes 
Our fiscal year 2012, 2011and 2010 effective tax rate was a benefit of 26.2 percent, an expense of 15.2 percent and an expense of 17.5
percent, respectively. The effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35 percent due to income mix, U.S. federal income tax credits and rate differentials between the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. In addition,
the fiscal year 2012 tax benefit was primarily due to the reversal of a portion of the U.S. valuation allowance. Refer to Note 13 – Income Taxes in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 
Subsequent Events 
Amendment to Revolving Credit Facility  Effective July 2, 2012, we and our wholly owned subsidiary, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG (“Harman KG”), entered into the Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the
Multi-Currency Credit Agreement dated as of December 1, 2010, as amended on December 15, 2011 (the “Credit Agreement”), with a group of banks. The Second Amendment amends the Credit Agreement by, among other things,
(a) allowing us and our subsidiaries to enter into certain internal legal entity restructuring transactions subject in certain circumstances to various conditions, (b) in connection with such internal legal entity restructuring
transactions, providing for the release of certain security interests created by the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement dated as of December 1, 2010, and (c) making certain other amendments to facilitate the foregoing. 
Dividend Declaration  On August 10, 2012, we declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The quarterly dividend will be paid on September 4, 2012 to each stockholder of
record as of the close of business on August 20, 2012. Shares Repurchased 
Between July 1, 2012 through August 10, 2012, we repurchased 129,966 shares of our common stock at a total cost of $4.8 million
in connection with our share buyback program.  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
We primarily finance our working capital requirements through cash generated by operations, borrowings under our revolving credit facility
and trade credit. Cash and cash equivalents were $617.4 million at June 30, 2012 compared to $603.9 million at June 30, 2011. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, our cash and cash equivalent balance increased $13.5 million.
The increase in cash was primarily due to higher net income and higher accounts payable and accrued liabilities, partially offset by the repurchase of treasury shares, capital expenditures, increases in other current assets, higher purchases of
inventories and accounts receivable related to higher net sales, foreign currency translation, the acquisition of MWM Acoustics, the payment of dividends and the funding of new product development. 
We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents of $617.4 million and our short-term investments of $203.0 million at
June 30, 2012, together with our expected future operating cash flows, and our availability of $541.3 million under our existing revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs,

  42 


Table of Contents

debt service, including the repayment of the Convertible Senior Notes in October 2012, our share buy-back program, capital expenditures, including major investments related to manufacturing and
research facilities in emerging markets, acquisitions, purchase commitments and quarterly dividends for at least the next 12 months. We have $400 million principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes that become due in October 2012, which is in
the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. We intend to use a combination of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, cash on hand and/or new debt financing to repay the $400 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013, which represents
the entire amount outstanding as of June 30, 2012.  Our ability to maintain positive liquidity going forward depends on
our ability to continue to generate cash from operations and maintain access to the financial markets, both of which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other market factors beyond our control. We
earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., the majority of which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. For at least the next 12 months, we have sufficient cash in the U.S., availability under
our existing revolving credit facility and forecasted domestic cash flow to sustain our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as quarterly dividends and repayment of debt. In addition, we expect
existing foreign cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital
expenditures, for at least the next 12 months. As of June 30, 2012, Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investments of $204.1 million and $30.0 million, respectively, were held in the U.S. and $413.3 million and $173.0 million,
respectively, were held by us in foreign jurisdictions. We repatriated $100 million of cash to the U.S. from Germany in fiscal year 2012, which we previously had provided tax on. As of June 30, 2011, Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term
investments of $74.3 million and $70.7 million, respectively, were held by us in the U.S. and $529.6 million and $246.6 million, respectively, were held by us in foreign jurisdictions. Below is a more detailed discussion of our cash flow activities
during fiscal year 2012.  Operating Activities  For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, our net cash provided by operating activities was $268.5 million, compared to $331.8 million in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in operating cash flows
compared to the prior fiscal year was primarily due to increases in other current assets related to the surcharge on rare earth minerals, higher accounts receivable related to increased sales, and higher purchases of inventories in anticipation of
future sales, partially offset by higher operating income and lower payments to vendors for accounts payable and accrued liabilities. At June 30, 2012, working capital, excluding cash, short-term investments, current portion of long-term debt
and short-term debt, was $309.6 million, compared with $141.5 million at June 30, 2011. The increase was primarily due to higher accounts receivable, inventory and other current assets, as well as lower accrued liabilities and accrued
warranties.  Investing Activities  Net cash provided by investing activities was $64.7 million for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, compared to $434.5 million used in investing activities in the prior fiscal year. The increase in
net cash provided by investing activities compared to the prior fiscal year was primarily due to higher net maturities of short-term investments, partially offset by the acquisition of MWM Acoustics and higher capital expenditures. Short-term
investments consist of commercial paper, short-term deposits and government bonds, time deposits, and treasury bills with original maturities of greater than three months and less than one year. Capital expenditures for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2012 were $112.5 million, in support of new Infotainment and Lifestyle awards, compared to $108.4 million for the prior fiscal year. Capital spending was also higher due to expansion of production capacity, increases in information
technology related programs and product improvement programs. We expect that our run rate for capital expenditures will slightly increase during fiscal year 2013. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Financing Activities  Net cash used in financing activities was $147.6 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, compared to $8.4 million used in financing activities in the prior fiscal year. The increase in cash
used was primarily due to the repurchase of $123.9 million of our common stock and $21.2 million of dividends paid to shareholders.  Our total debt, including short-term borrowings, at June 30, 2012 was $400.7 million, or $395.7 million, net of discount, primarily comprised of $400.0 million of the Convertible Senior Notes
which are shown net of a discount of $5.0 million in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2012, due to the accounting guidance which is more fully described in Note 9 – Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Also included in total debt are $0.6 million of other short-term and long-term borrowings.  Our total debt,
including short-term borrowings, at June 30, 2011 was $402.6 million, or $381.0 million, net of discount, and was primarily comprised of $400.0 million of the Convertible Senior Notes, which are shown net of a discount of $21.6 million in our
Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2011. Also included in total debt are $2.6 million of other short-term borrowings and capital lease obligations.  Revolving Credit Facility  On December 1, 2010 we and Harman
KG, entered into a Multi-Currency Credit Agreement with a group of banks, as amended on December 15, 2011(the “Credit Agreement”). At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had no borrowings under the Credit Agreement and had outstanding
letters of credit of $8.7 million and $7.3 million, respectively. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, unused available credit under the Credit Agreement was $541.3 million and $542.7 million, respectively. If we experience a significant decline in our
operating results, we could violate our debt covenants and, absent a waiver from our lenders or an amendment to the Credit Agreement, we could be in default under the Credit Agreement. As a result, our debt under the Credit Agreement could become
due, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A default under the Credit Agreement could also lead to an event of default under the indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes (the
“Indenture”), as amended, and accelerate the maturity of the Convertible Senior Notes. As of June 30, 2012, we were in compliance with all the financial covenants of the Credit Agreement. We believe we will be in compliance with
these covenants for at least the next 12 months.  Guarantee and Collateral Agreement 
In connection with the Credit Agreement, we and Harman KG entered into a guarantee and collateral agreement (the “Guarantee and
Collateral Agreement”) which provides, among other things, that the obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by us and each of the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and that the obligations generally are secured by liens on
substantially all of our assets and certain of our subsidiary guarantors’ assets.  The term of the Guarantee and
Collateral Agreement corresponds with the term of the Credit Agreement, which matures on December 1, 2015. Under the terms of this Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, we have effectively guaranteed the payment of the full amount of
borrowings under the Credit Agreement, including outstanding letters of credit, upon maturity. The potential amount of future payments that we would be required to pay under the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement is the amount that we have
borrowed under the Credit Agreement, including outstanding letters of credit. At June 30, 2012, we had no borrowings under the Credit Agreement and had outstanding letters of credit of $8.7 million. 
Convertible Senior Notes  We had $400 million of Convertible Senior Notes outstanding at June 30, 2012 and 2011, which are more fully described in Note 9 – Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. The Convertible Senior Notes are reported in Current portion of long-term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30, 2012, as 
  44 


Table of Contents

they are due in October 2012, which is in less than one year. At June 30, 2012, we were in compliance with all covenants under the Indenture and we believe that we will be in compliance with
these covenants for the remaining term of the Indenture, which is less than 12 months.  Dividends 
On June 27, 2012, we announced that our annual cash dividend would double in fiscal year 2013 to $0.60 per share. The dividends will
be paid in quarterly increments of $0.15 per share, effective July 1, 2012.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We utilize off-balance sheet arrangements in our operations when we enter into operating leases for land, buildings and equipment in the
normal course of business, which are not included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. In addition, we had outstanding letters of credit of $8.7 million and $7.3 million at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which were not included in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Contractual Obligations  We have obligations and commitments to make future payments under various agreements and for uncertain tax positions. The following table details our obligations by due date: 
 
































 
 
Year Ending June 30,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
2013
 
 
2014
 
 
2015
 
 
2016
 
 
2017
 
 
Thereafter
 
 
Total
 

 Short term borrowings
 
$
227
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
227
  

 Current portion of long-term debt(1) 
 
 
400,400
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
400,400
  

 Firm commitments for capital expenditures
 
 
11,241
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,241
  

 Purchase obligations(2) 
 
 
139,843
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
139,843
  

 Other long-term obligations(1) (3) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
52
  

 Non-cancelable operating leases(4) 
 
 
35,244
  
 
 
30,102
  
 
 
26,250
  
 
 
24,483
  
 
 
23,950
  
 
 
18,215
  
 
 
158,244
  

 Pension obligations(5) 
 
 
8,937
  
 
 
8,555
  
 
 
8,950
  
 
 
9,510
  
 
 
11,417
  
 
 
52,828
  
 
 
100,197
  

 Uncertain tax positions(6) 
 
 
34,200
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
34,200
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total contractual cash obligations
 
$
630,092
  
 
$
38,667
  
 
$
35,210
  
 
$
34,003
  
 
$
35,377
  
 
$
71,055
  
 
$
844,404
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Amount includes $400 million principal amount of our Convertible Senior Notes. Refer to Note 9 – Debt in the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for more information and for interest payments associated with our short-term borrowings, current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt. 


(2) 
 Includes amounts committed under enforceable agreements for purchase of goods and services with defined terms as to quantity, price and timing of
delivery. 


(3) 
 Amount is included in Other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at June 30, 2012. 


(4) 
 Refer to Note 12 – Leases in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 


(5) 
 Refer to Note 16 – Retirement Benefits in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.



(6) 
 Refer to Note 13 – Income Taxes in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. All uncertain tax positions are included in fiscal
year 2013 as timing of such payments cannot be estimated.  Equity 
Total shareholders’ equity at June 30, 2012 was $1.529 billion compared with $1.424 billion at June 30, 2011. The increase
is primarily due to increased net income, net unrealized gains on hedging, and share-based compensation, partially offset by the repurchase of shares of our common stock, unfavorable foreign currency translation, the payment of dividends and an
unfavorable pension liability adjustment. During the fiscal year 
  45 


Table of Contents

ended June 30, 2012, we entered into an agreement with an external broker which provides the structure under which our share buyback program is being facilitated. There were 3,246,409 shares
of our common stock repurchased during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 at a total cost of $123.9 million.  Business Outlook
 Our future outlook may be negatively impacted due to changes in global economic conditions, in particular the European
sovereign debt crisis and the foreign currency transaction and translation exposure. This may drive a contraction in consumer discretionary spending. Each quarter we update our estimated cost increases related to the recent constraints in the supply
of rare earth minerals, specifically rare earth neodymium magnets, used in our products. We do not expect this to have a material negative impact on our profitability in future years. We are currently investigating alternative design solutions
utilizing other materials and also have successfully negotiated price increases with some of our customers and are still in negotiations with other customers. To date, we believe our actions, principally price adjustments negotiated with our
customers, will be successful in mitigating the impact from this cost increase. Accordingly, we expect our overall year-over-year profitability to improve unless global economic conditions significantly worsen. 
Recently Issued Accounting Standards  Intangible Assets: In July 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board “FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2012-02, “Testing Indefinite-Lived Intangible
Assets for Impairment,” which allows companies to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary, similar in approach to the goodwill impairment test. The new
guidance allows an entity the option to first assess qualitatively whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, thus necessitating that it perform the
quantitative impairment test. An entity is not required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not that the asset is
impaired. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. Early adoption is permitted for annual and interim impairment tests performed as of a date before
July 27, 2012, if the financial statements for the most recent annual or interim period have not yet been issued. We will adopt the provisions of this new guidance on July 1, 2013. We do not expect the adoption of the new provisions to
have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  Balance Sheet: In December 2011, the FASB
issued ASU 2011-11, “Balance Sheet (Topic 210), Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities,” which requires companies to disclose information about financial instruments that have been offset and related arrangements to enable
users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial condition. Companies will be required to provide both net (offset amounts) and gross information in the notes to the financial statements for relevant
assets and liabilities that are offset. The new guidance is effective retrospectively for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2013. We will adopt the provisions of this new guidance on
July 1, 2013. We do not expect the adoption of the new provisions to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  Comprehensive Income: In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2011-05”). The new guidance
requires that all non-owner changes in stockholders’ equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both cases, an entity is required to present each
component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. If presented in a single continuous statement, the
entity is required to present the components of net income and total net income, the components of other comprehensive income and a total for other comprehensive income, along with the total of comprehensive

  46 


Table of Contents

income in that statement. If presented in the two-statement approach, the first statement, which is the statement of net income, should present components of net income and total net income
followed consecutively by a second statement, which is the statement of other comprehensive income, that should present the components of other comprehensive income, total other comprehensive income and a total amount for comprehensive income.
Regardless of the method used, the entity is required to present on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components
of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of
Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05” (“ASU 2011-12”). ASU 2011-12 temporarily deferred the requirement to present on the face of the financial
statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The guidance in
ASU 2011-05, as amended, is effective retrospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. We will adopt the provisions of this new guidance on July 1, 2012. We do not expect
the adoption of the new provisions to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.   


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  We are required to include information about potential effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. 
Interest Rate Sensitivity/Risk  At June 30, 2012, interest on approximately 99 percent of our borrowings was determined on a fixed rate basis. The interest rates on the balance of our debt are subject to changes in U.S. and
European short-term interest rates. To assess exposure to interest rate changes, we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates across all outstanding debt and investments. Our
analysis indicates that the effect on fiscal year 2012 income from continuing operations before income taxes of such an increase and decrease in interest rates would be approximately $6.5 million. 
Foreign Currency Risk  We maintain significant operations in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Austria, Hungary, Mexico, China and Brazil. As a result, we are subject to market risks arising from changes in these foreign
currency exchange rates, principally the change in the value of the Euro versus the U.S. Dollar. Refer to Note 10 – Derivatives in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on our financial risk
management.  Our subsidiaries purchase products and raw materials and sell our products in various currencies. As a result, we
may be exposed to cost changes relative to local currencies in these markets. To mitigate these transactional risks, we enter into foreign exchange contracts. Also, foreign currency positions are partially offsetting and are netted against one
another to reduce exposure. We presently estimate the effect on projected fiscal year 2013 income before income taxes, based upon a recent estimate of foreign exchange transactional exposure, of a uniform strengthening or uniform weakening of the
transaction currency rates of 10 percent, would be to increase or decrease income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $22.5 million. As of June 30, 2012, we had hedged a portion of our estimated foreign currency
transactions using foreign exchange contracts, including forwards and options. 
  47 


Table of Contents
We presently estimate the effect on projected fiscal year 2013 income before income taxes,
based upon a recent estimate of foreign exchange translation exposure (translating the operating performance of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. Dollars), of a uniform strengthening or weakening of the U.S. Dollar by 10 percent, would be to
increase or decrease income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $12.4 million.  Changes in
currency exchange rates, principally the change in the value of the Euro compared to the U.S. dollar have an impact on our reported results when the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars. Over half our
sales are denominated in Euros. The average exchange rate for the Euro versus the U.S. dollar for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 decreased 1.8 percent from the same period in the prior fiscal year. 
Competitive conditions in the markets in which we operate may limit our ability to increase prices in the event of adverse changes in
currency exchange rates. For example, certain products made in Europe are sold in the U.S. Sales of these products are affected by the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro. Any weakening of the U.S. Dollar could
depress the demand for these European manufactured products in the U.S. and reduce sales. However, due to the multiple currencies involved in our business and the netting effect of various simultaneous transactions, our foreign currency
positions are partially offsetting. In addition, our foreign currency hedging program is designed to limit our exposure. 
Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in
the timing and amount of interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. 
  48 


Table of Contents


Item 8.
Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  The management of Harman International Industries, Incorporated is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control system was designed
to provide reasonable assurance to our management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and the fair presentation of published financial statements. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.  We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012. In making this assessment, we used the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework.” Our assessment included an evaluation of such elements as the design and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls, process
documentation, accounting policies, overall control environment and information systems control environment. Based on our assessment, we have concluded that, as of June 30, 2012, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.
 The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as of June 30, 2012, has been audited by KPMG LLP
(“KPMG”), an independent registered public accounting firm. KPMG’s report on our internal controls over financial reporting is included herein. 






/s/    DINESH C.
PALIWAL        

 Dinesh C. Paliwal Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer



/s/    HERBERT K.
PARKER        

 Herbert K. Parker Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 August 10, 2012 
  49 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Harman International Industries, Incorporated:  We have audited Harman
International Industries, Incorporated and subsidiaries’ (“the Company”) internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Harman International Industries, Incorporated’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of June 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets of Harman International Industries, Incorporated and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012, and our report dated August 10, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
 




 /s/ KPMG LLP
 Stamford, Connecticut  August 10, 2012 
  50 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Harman International Industries, Incorporated:  We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Harman International Industries, Incorporated and subsidiaries (“the Company”) as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and
comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the related financial statement schedule for
each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Harman International Industries, Incorporated and subsidiaries
as of June 30, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also in our
opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Harman
International Industries, Incorporated’s internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated August 10, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
 




 /s/ KPMG LLP
 Stamford, Connecticut  August 10, 2012 
  51 


Table of Contents
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
June 30,
 

 (in thousands)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Assets
  



 




 Current assets
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
617,356
  
 
$
603,892
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
203,014
  
 
 
317,322
  

 Receivables, net
  
 
582,835
  
 
 
579,272
  

 Inventories
  
 
427,597
  
 
 
423,137
  

 Other current assets
  
 
285,443
  
 
 
184,532
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,116,245
  
 
 
2,108,155
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
430,234
  
 
 
470,300
  

 Goodwill
  
 
180,811
  
 
 
119,357
  

 Deferred tax assets, long-term, net
  
 
308,768
  
 
 
229,941
  

 Other assets
  
 
133,406
  
 
 
130,742
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
3,169,464
  
 
$
3,058,495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
  



 




 Current liabilities
  



 




 Current portion of long-term debt
  
$
395,409
  
 
$
386
  

 Short-term debt
  
 
227
  
 
 
1,785
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
505,694
  
 
 
473,486
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
368,002
  
 
 
436,537
  

 Accrued warranties
  
 
97,289
  
 
 
122,396
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
15,279
  
 
 
12,991
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
1,381,900
  
 
 
1,047,581
  

 Convertible senior notes
  
 
0
  
 
 
378,401
  

 Pension liability
  
 
168,099
  
 
 
142,114
  

 Other non-current liabilities
  
 
89,854
  
 
 
66,741
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
1,639,853
  
 
 
1,634,837
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Preferred stock
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Common stock
  
 
961
  
 
 
956
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
943,971
  
 
 
915,433
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income
  
 
29,709
  
 
 
136,733
  

 Retained earnings
  
 
1,726,486
  
 
 
1,418,106
  

 Less: Common stock held in treasury
  
 
(1,171,516
) 
 
 
(1,047,570
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
  
 
1,529,611
  
 
 
1,423,658
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
  
$
3,169,464
  
 
$
3,058,495
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  52 


Table of Contents
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 (in thousands, except earnings per share data)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
4,364,078
  
 
$
3,772,345
  
 
$
3,364,428
  

 Cost of sales
  
 
3,179,932
  
 
 
2,784,995
  
 
 
2,479,270
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
1,184,146
  
 
 
987,350
  
 
 
885,158
  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
884,200
  
 
 
813,809
  
 
 
774,189
  

 Sale of intellectual property
  
 
(300
) 
 
 
(16,510
) 
 
 
0
  

 Loss on deconsolidation of variable interest entity
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,122
  

 Goodwill impairment
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
12,292
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income
  
 
300,246
  
 
 
190,051
  
 
 
85,555
  

 Other expenses:
  



 



 




 Interest expense, net
  
 
20,126
  
 
 
22,576
  
 
 
30,215
  

 Foreign exchange losses, net
  
 
13,152
  
 
 
952
  
 
 
946
  

 Miscellaneous, net
  
 
5,815
  
 
 
6,303
  
 
 
5,317
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
261,153
  
 
 
160,220
  
 
 
49,077
  

 Income tax (benefit) expense, net
  
 
(68,388
) 
 
 
24,304
  
 
 
8,610
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations, net of income taxes
  
 
329,541
  
 
 
135,916
  
 
 
40,467
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
114,197
  

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,394
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income from discontinued operations
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
123,591
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
 
329,541
  
 
 
135,916
  
 
 
164,058
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,289
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
  
$
329,541
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
158,769
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
  



 



 




 Income from continuing operations, net of income taxes
  
$
329,541
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
40,467
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,289
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
  
$
329,541
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
35,178
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries,
Incorporated:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
4.62
  
 
$
1.91
  
 
$
0.50
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
4.57
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
0.50
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share from discontinued operations:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
1.76
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.00
  
 
$
1.75
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per share:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
$
4.62
  
 
$
1.91
  
 
$
2.26
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
$
4.57
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
2.25
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding:
  



 



 




 Basic
  
 
71,297
  
 
 
70,992
  
 
 
70,350
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted
  
 
72,083
  
 
 
71,635
  
 
 
70,595
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  53 


Table of Contents
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 (in thousands)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
  
$
329,541
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
158,769
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated to net cash provided by
operating activities:
  



 



 




 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(9,394
) 

 Gain on sale of QNX Entities
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(114,197
) 

 Goodwill impairment
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
12,292
  

 Loss on deconsolidation of variable interest entity
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,122
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
122,225
  
 
 
123,264
  
 
 
127,654
  

 Deferred income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(99,306
) 
 
 
(8,926
) 
 
 
3,954
  

 Noncontrolling interest
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,289
  

 Loss on disposition of assets
  
 
1,377
  
 
 
1,272
  
 
 
593
  

 Share-based compensation
  
 
17,370
  
 
 
17,973
  
 
 
21,320
  

 Non-cash interest expense
  
 
19,149
  
 
 
19,258
  
 
 
12,250
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquired businesses:
  



 



 




 Decrease (increase) in:
  



 



 




 Receivables, net
  
 
(50,709
) 
 
 
(4,222
) 
 
 
(144,100
) 

 Inventories
  
 
(36,725
) 
 
 
(25,534
) 
 
 
(40,055
) 

 Other current assets
  
 
(84,866
) 
 
 
9,733
  
 
 
(10,194
) 

 Increase (decrease) in:
  



 



 




 Accounts payable
  
 
62,046
  
 
 
49,707
  
 
 
180,064
  

 Accrued warranties
  
 
(10,348
) 
 
 
23,067
  
 
 
20,586
  

 Accrued other liabilities
  
 
2,914
  
 
 
(12,535
) 
 
 
(17,344
) 

 Income taxes payable
  
 
3,596
  
 
 
5,378
  
 
 
(5,410
) 

 Other operating activities
  
 
(7,757
) 
 
 
(2,601
) 
 
 
(23,773
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing operations provided by operating activities
  
 
268,507
  
 
 
331,750
  
 
 
191,426
  

 Net cash from discontinued operations provided by operating activities
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
49,013
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
268,507
  
 
 
331,750
  
 
 
240,439
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Purchases of short-term investments
  
 
(559,283
) 
 
 
(599,495
) 
 
 
0
  

 Maturities of short-term investments
  
 
673,591
  
 
 
282,173
  
 
 
0
  

 Acquisitions, net of cash received
  
 
(70,535
) 
 
 
(14,800
) 
 
 
(63,843
) 

 Deconsolidation of variable interest entity
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(11,347
) 

 Proceeds from sale of QNX Entities, net of cash paid
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
199,560
  

 Proceeds from asset dispositions
  
 
2,865
  
 
 
3,005
  
 
 
2,531
  

 Capital expenditures
  
 
(112,536
) 
 
 
(108,357
) 
 
 
(60,033
) 

 Other items, net
  
 
1,247
  
 
 
2,974
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash from continuing operations (used in) provided by investing activities
  
 
(64,651
) 
 
 
(434,500
) 
 
 
66,868
  

 Net cash from discontinued operations (used in) provided by investing activities
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(167
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
  
 
(64,651
) 
 
 
(434,500
) 
 
 
66,701
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Net decrease in short-term borrowings
  
 
(1,308
) 
 
 
(12,461
) 
 
 
0
  

 Net repayments under revolving credit facility
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(228,890
) 

 Cash dividends paid to shareholders
  
 
(21,161
) 
 
 
(3,525
) 
 
 
0
  

 Repurchase of common stock
  
 
(123,946
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Share-based payment arrangements
  
 
11,342
  
 
 
9,544
  
 
 
1,557
  

 Debt issuance costs for revolving credit facility
  
 
(0
) 
 
 
(7,002
) 
 
 
0
  

 Other items, net
  
 
(12,573
) 
 
 
5,066
  
 
 
5,073
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
(147,646
) 
 
 
(8,378
) 
 
 
(222,260
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  
 
(42,746
) 
 
 
69,450
  
 
 
(25,669
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
13,464
  
 
 
(41,678
) 
 
 
59,211
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period
  
 
603,892
  
 
 
645,570
  
 
 
586,359
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period
  
$
617,356
  
 
$
603,892
  
 
$
645,570
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
  



 



 




 Accrued and contingent acquisition-related liabilities equivalents at end of period
  
$
 28,017
  
 
$
 6,937
  
 
$
 17,725
  

See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  54 


Table of Contents
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

 








































 Years Ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010
 

 
 
Common Stock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
HarmanShareholders’Equity
 
 
Non-controllingInterest
 
 
TotalEquity
 

 ($ in thousands, except
per share data)
 
Number ofShares
 
 
$.01ParValue
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance, June 30, 2009
 
 
69,329,778
  
 
$
949
  
 
$
869,609
  
 
$
57,198
  
 
$
1,126,946
  
 
$
(1,047,570
) 
 
$
1,007,132
  
 
$
786
  
 
$
1,007,918
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
158,769
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
158,769
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
158,769
  

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(66,500
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(66,500
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(66,500
) 

 Unrealized gain on hedging derivatives, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
27,749
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
27,749
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
27,749
  

 Pension liability adjustment, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13,599
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13,599
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(13,599
) 

 Unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,182
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,182
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,182
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
105,237
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Restricted stock unit vesting
 
 
68,699
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exercise of stock options, net of shares received
 
 
131,542
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,556
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,559
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,559
  

 Share-based compensation, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,964
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,964
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
20,964
  

 Noncontrolling interest
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(786
) 
 
 
(786
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2010
 
 
69,530,019
  
 
$
952
  
 
$
892,129
  
 
$
3,666
  
 
$
1,285,715
  
 
$
(1,047,570
) 
 
$
1,134,892
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
1,134,892
  

 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
135,916
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
135,916
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
135,916
  

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
164,079
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
164,079
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
164,079
  

 Unrealized loss on hedging derivatives, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,892
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,892
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(41,892
) 

 Pension liability adjustment, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,117
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,117
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,117
  

 Unrealized gain on available-for-sale securities, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,763
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,763
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,763
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
268,983
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Restricted stock unit vesting
 
 
44,948
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exercise of stock options, net of shares received
 
 
345,284
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
9,544
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,548
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,548
  

 Share-based compensation, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,760
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,760
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
13,760
  

 Dividends ($0.10 per share)(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,525
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,525
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,525
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2011
 
 
69,920,251
  
 
$
956
  
 
$
915,433
  
 
$
136,733
  
 
$
1,418,106
  
 
$
(1,047,570
) 
 
$
1,423,658
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
1,423,658
  

 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
329,541
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
329,541
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
329,541
  

 Foreign currency translation
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(136,240
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(136,240
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(136,240
) 

 Unrealized gain on hedging derivatives, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
49,480
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
49,480
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
49,480
  

 Pension liability adjustment, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(20,144
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(20,144
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(20,144
) 

 Unrealized loss on available-for-sale securities, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(120
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(120
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(120
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
221,517
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Restricted stock unit vesting
 
 
189,525
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Exercise of stock options, net of shares received
 
 
422,949
  
 
 
5
  
 
 
11,342
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,347
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
11,347
  

 Share-based compensation, net of tax
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17,196
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17,196
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
17,196
  

 Dividends ($0.30 per share)(1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(21,161
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(21,161
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(21,161
) 

 Treasury stock repurchases
 
 
(3,246,409
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(123,946
) 
 
 
(123,946
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(123,946
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2012
 
 
67,286,316
  
 
$
961
  
 
$
943,971
  
 
$
29,709
  
 
$
1,726,486
  
 
$
(1,171,516
) 
 
$
1,529,611
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
1,529,611
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 


(1) 
 Cash dividends declared on common stock were $0.075 in all four quarters of fiscal year 2012 and $0.025 in each of the third and fourth quarters of
fiscal year 2011. There were no dividends declared on common stock in the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2011 and in all quarters of fiscal year 2010. 
See accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Subsidiaries

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
(Dollars in thousands, except per share data and unless otherwise indicated) 
Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
References to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” and “Harman” refer to
Harman International Industries, Incorporated and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.  Description of Business: We believe we are a worldwide leader in the development, manufacture and marketing of high-quality, high-fidelity audio products and electronic systems. We have developed,
both internally and through a series of strategic acquisitions, a broad range of product offerings sold under renowned brand names in our principal markets. We also believe we are a leader in digitally integrated audio and infotainment systems for
the automotive industry. Our AKG®, Crown®, JBL®, Infinity®, Harman/Kardon®, Lexicon®, dbx®, Studer®, Soundcraft®, Mark Levinson®, Becker®, Revel®, Logic 7® and Selenium® brand names are well-known worldwide for premium quality and performance.   Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Harman International Industries, Incorporated and our controlled subsidiary companies. All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Operating results of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income from the date of acquisition. 
We consolidate variable interest entities if we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the entity. Operating results for variable
interest entities in which we are determined to be the primary beneficiary are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income from the date such determination is made.  Reclassifications: Where necessary, information for prior fiscal years has been reclassified to conform to the fiscal year 2012 financial statement presentation. Effective July 1, 2011, we
revised our business segments in order to better align them with our strategic approach to the markets and customers we serve. Refer to Note 17 – Business Segment Data for more information. The reclassification of historical segment
information had no impact on our basic financial statements.  Use of Estimates: The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, as well as the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amount of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates are used for, but not limited to: (i) inventory valuation;
(ii) depreciable lives of fixed assets; (iii) goodwill and other asset impairments; (vi) restructuring and related charges; (v) the evaluation of the recoverability of pre-production and development contract costs;
(vi) warranty liabilities; (vii) allowance for doubtful accounts; (viii) contingency and litigation reserves; (ix) income tax reserves and valuation allowances; (x) accounting for business combinations; (xi) sales
discounts and sales allowances, (xii) pension, post-retirement and other employee benefits and (xiii) losses on infotainment supply arrangements. Various assumptions go into the determination of these estimates. The process of determining
significant estimates requires consideration of factors such as historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, and actuarial methods. We reevaluate these significant factors and make changes and adjustments where facts and
circumstances indicate that changes are necessary. The accounting estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and
as our operating environment changes. Actual results could differ from those estimates and the differences could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
Changes in Estimates: In the ordinary course of accounting for items discussed above, we make changes in estimates as appropriate,
and as we become aware of circumstances affecting those estimates. Such changes and 
  56 


Table of Contents

refinements in estimation methodologies are reflected in reported results of operations in the period in which the changes are made and, if material, their effects are disclosed in the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Revenue Recognition: Revenue is generally recognized at the time of product
shipment or delivery, depending on when the passage of title to goods transfers to unaffiliated customers and when all of the following have occurred: a firm sales agreement is in place, pricing is fixed or determinable and collection is reasonably
assured. Sales are reported net of estimated returns, discounts, rebates and incentives. Substantially all of our revenue transactions involve the delivery of a physical product. Royalty income, which is not material, is recorded when earned based
upon contract terms with licensees which provide for royalties.  We enter into incentive agreements with certain automotive
customers which relate to a specific program award. These incentives are generally based on fixed payments paid by us to the automotive manufacturer, and are generally deferred, if certain criteria are met. The deferability criteria include the
existence of legally enforceable rights, management’s ability and intent to enforce the recoverability clauses and the ability to generate future earnings from the agreement in excess of the deferred amounts. Capitalized amounts are amortized,
generally as a reduction to revenue, over the related program award term based on our estimate of future volumes. Our estimates are reviewed regularly and the cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period such revisions
become probable and estimable.  Sales Discounts: We offer product discounts and sales incentives including prompt
payment discounts, volume incentive programs, rebates and dealer order incentives. We report revenues net of discounts and other sales incentives.  Cost of Sales: Cost of sales includes material, labor and overhead for products manufactured by us and cost of goods produced for us on a contract basis. Expenses incurred for manufacturing
depreciation and engineering, warehousing, shipping and handling, sales commissions, warranty and customer service are also included in cost of sales.  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts: We reserve an estimated amount for accounts receivable that may not be collected. Methodologies for estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts are primarily
based on specific identification of uncollectible accounts. Historical collection rates and customer credit worthiness are considered in determining specific reserves. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had $6.0 million and $7.0 million,
respectively, reserved for possible uncollectible accounts receivable. As with many estimates, management must make judgments about potential actions by third parties in establishing and evaluating our allowance for doubtful accounts. 
Infotainment Supply Arrangements: We have arrangements with our infotainment customers to provide products that meet predetermined
technical specifications and delivery dates. In the event we do not satisfy the performance obligations under these arrangements, we may be required to indemnify the customer. We accrue for any loss that we expect to incur under these arrangements
when the loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Accrued Warranties: We warrant our products to be free from
defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from six months to six years from the date of purchase, depending on the business segment and product. Our dealers and warranty service providers normally perform warranty service in field
locations and regional service centers, using parts and replacement finished goods we supply on an exchange basis. Our dealers and warranty service providers also install updates we provide to correct defects covered by our warranties. Estimated
warranty liabilities are based upon past experience with similar types of products, the technological complexity of certain products, replacement cost and other factors. If estimates of warranty provisions are no longer adequate based on our
analysis of current activity, incremental provisions are recorded as warranty expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income. We take these factors into consideration when assessing the adequacy of our warranty provision for periods still open to
claim. Refer to Note 6 – Accrued Warranties for more information. 
  57 


Table of Contents
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses: Selling, general and administrative
expenses (“SG&A”) include non-manufacturing salaries and benefits, share-based compensation expense, occupancy costs, professional fees, research and development costs (“R&D”), amortization of intangibles, advertising and
marketing costs and other operating expenses.  Advertising Expenses: We expense advertising costs as incurred. When
production costs are incurred for future advertising, these costs are recorded as an asset and subsequently expensed when the advertisement is first put into service.  R&D Expenses: R&D expenses are expensed as incurred. R&D expenses, net of customer reimbursements, were $331.9 million, $304.6 million and $322.7 million for the fiscal years ending
June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Interest Expense, net: Interest expense, net, includes interest
expense and amortization of original issue discount on debt securities and debt issuance costs, net of interest income. 
Foreign exchange losses, net: Foreign exchange losses, net includes gains and losses from forward points on certain derivative
foreign currency forward contracts that are excluded from hedge effectiveness testing. It also includes gains and losses resulting from the remeasurement of certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Effective July 1,
2011, we changed the functional currency of two or our foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. dollar to reflect a change in the currency in which such subsidiaries primarily generate and expend cash. Refer to Note 10 – Derivatives for
more information.  Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, money-market funds and
investments with original maturities of three months or less.  Restricted Cash and Investments: We have a deferred
compensation arrangement with certain foreign employees which requires us to maintain cash on hand. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, such restricted cash amounts were $7.2 million and $8.0 million, respectively, and were included in Other assets in
our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Short-Term Investments: Short-term investments consist of investments in commercial
paper, short-term deposits, government bonds, time deposits and treasury bills with original maturities of greater than three months and less than one year.  Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined principally by the first-in, first-out method. We establish reserves for our inventory which requires us to
analyze the aging and forecasted demand for our inventories, to forecast future product sales prices, pricing trends and margins, and to make judgments and estimates regarding obsolete, damaged or excess inventory. Markdown percentages are
determined based on our estimate of future demand and selling prices for our products. Future sales prices are determined based on current and forecasted market expectations, as well as terms that have been established for future orders under
automotive platform arrangements. Our inventory reserves primarily relate to our raw materials as our finished goods are primarily produced to order. We calculate inventory reserves on raw materials by reviewing the levels of raw materials on-hand
and comparing this to estimates of historical consumption and future demand in order to assess whether we have excess materials on-hand. If it is determined that excess materials are in inventory, an appropriate inventory reserve is established.
Inventory reserves on finished goods are primarily determined through inventory turnover measures. Products showing low turnover rates are assigned a percentage reserve based on future estimates of sales volumes and margins. We make adjustments to
our inventory reserves based on the identification of specific situations and increase our inventory reserves accordingly. As changes in future economic or industry conditions occur, we revise the estimates that were used to calculate our inventory
reserves. Refer to Note 4 – Inventories for more information. 
  58 


Table of Contents
Property, Plant and Equipment, net: Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost
or, in the case of capitalized leases, at the present value of the future minimum lease payments. Depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment is computed primarily using the straight-line method over the asset’s useful life.
Refer to Note 5 – Property, Plant and Equipment, net for more information.  Goodwill:
We assess goodwill for potential impairments annually each April 30th, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment,
including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each
reporting unit using a discounted cash flow methodology. This requires us to use significant judgment, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business,
the useful life over which cash flows will occur, determination of our weighted average cost of capital, and relevant market data.  In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we first may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a
reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then no further testing of the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit is
required. However, if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then we perform a two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the
amount of goodwill impairment to be recognized, if any.  The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its
carrying value, with fair value of each reporting unit determined using established valuation techniques, specifically the market and income approaches. If the results of the first step indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than
its carrying value, the second step of this test is conducted wherein the amount of any impairment is determined by comparing the implied fair value of goodwill in a reporting unit to the recorded amount of goodwill for that reporting unit. The
implied fair value of goodwill is calculated as the excess of fair value of the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and liabilities. Should the fair values of the goodwill so calculated be less than the carrying value, an
impairment is recognized. Refer to Note 8 – Goodwill for more information.  Other Intangible Assets: Other
intangible assets primarily consist of patents, trademarks, distribution agreements and non-compete agreements and are amortized over periods ranging from 10 months to 17 years. Other intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over
their estimated economic lives. We believe that the straight-line method of amortization reflects an appropriate allocation of the cost of the intangible assets to earnings in proportion to the amount of economic benefits obtained annually by our
Company.   Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: We review the recoverability of our long-lived assets, including
buildings, equipment and other definite-lived intangible assets, when events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. The assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability
to recover the carrying value of the asset from the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the related operations. If these cash flows are less than the carrying value of such asset, an impairment loss is
recognized for the difference between estimated fair value and carrying value. Our primary measure of fair value is based on discounted cash flows. We will continue to monitor the need for impairment tests, which could result in additional
impairment charges. We recognized $0.6 million and $1.2 million in impairment charges related to facilities that were held-for-sale in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2010, respectively. We did not record any impairment charges for
long-lived assets in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011.  Pre-Production and Development Costs: We incur
pre-production and development costs related to infotainment systems that we develop for automobile manufacturers pursuant to long-term supply arrangements. 
  59 


Table of Contents

Portions of these costs are reimbursable under separate agreements and are recorded as unbilled costs in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other current assets and Other assets, once an
agreement is signed.  At June 30, 2012 and 2011, unbilled costs were $54.8 million and $40.5 million, respectively,
related to pre-production costs. At June 30, 2012 and 2011 unbilled costs reimbursable in the next 12 months totaled $26.0 million and $13.5 million, respectively, and were recorded in other current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Unbilled costs reimbursable in subsequent years at June 30, 2012 and 2011 totaled $28.8 million and $27.0 million, respectively, and were recorded in Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had fixed
assets of $17.3 million and $18.0 million, respectively, for molds, dies and other tools included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, which our customers will eventually purchase and own pursuant to long-term supply arrangements. 
Income Taxes: Deferred income tax assets or liabilities are computed based on the temporary differences between the financial
statement and income tax basis of assets and liabilities using the statutory marginal income tax rate in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred income tax expenses or credits are based on the changes in the
deferred income tax assets or liabilities from period to period. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In determining the need for, and the amount of a
valuation allowance, we consider our ability to forecast earnings, future taxable income, carryback losses, if any, and we consider feasible tax planning strategies. We believe the estimate of our income tax assets, liabilities and expenses are
“critical accounting estimates” because if the actual income tax assets, liabilities and expenses differ from our estimates the outcome could have a material impact on our results of operations. Adjustments to our valuation allowance from
continuing operations, through charges to income tax (benefit) expense were $(124.2) million, $0.2 million and $4.8 million for the years ending June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves evaluating uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We
recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether and the extent to which additional taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the
reversal of the liabilities would result in additional tax benefits recognized in the period in which we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further
charge to expense would result. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Refer to Note 13 – Income Taxes, for more information  
Retirement Benefits: We provide postretirement benefits to certain employees. Employees in the United States are covered by a
defined contribution plan. Our contributions to this plan are based on a percentage of employee contributions. Effective January 1, 2010, we reinstated all the matching contributions to the defined contribution plan, which were previously
suspended effective January 1, 2009. These plans are funded on a current basis. We also have a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) in the United States that provides retirement, death and termination benefits, as defined,
to certain key executives designated by our Board of Directors.  Certain employees outside the United States are covered by
non-contributory defined benefit plans. The defined benefit plans are funded in conformity with applicable government regulations. Generally, benefits are based on age, years of service, and the level of compensation during the final years of
service. Refer to Note 16 – Retirement Benefits for more information.  Foreign Currency
Translation: The financial statements of subsidiaries located outside of the United States generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. Assets, including goodwill, and liabilities of these subsidiaries are
translated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. The resulting translation adjustments are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Income, expense and cash flow items
are translated at average monthly exchange rates. Gains 
  60 


Table of Contents

and losses from foreign currency transactions of these subsidiaries are included in net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated in our Consolidated Statements of
Income.  Derivative Financial Instruments: We are exposed to market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates and interest rates which could affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these risks through our regular operating and financial activities and when appropriate, through the use of derivative
financial instruments. These derivatives are utilized to hedge economic exposures, as well as to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates. We enter into limited types of derivative contracts, including foreign
currency spot and forward and option contracts and an interest rate swap, to manage foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Our primary foreign currency exposure is the Euro. The fair market value of all our derivative contracts change with
fluctuations in interest rates and currency rates, and are designed so that changes in their values are offset by changes in the values of the underlying exposures. Derivative financial instruments are held solely as risk management tools and not
for trading or speculative purposes. We do not utilize derivatives that contain leverage features. On the date that we enter into a derivative that qualifies for hedge accounting, the derivative is designated as a hedge of the identified exposure.
We document all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items for which we apply hedge accounting treatment and assess the effectiveness of our hedges at inception and on an ongoing basis. 
We record all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain of
these derivative contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges, whereby gains and losses are reported within AOCI in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the underlying transaction occurs, at which point they are reported in earnings as gains
or losses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Certain of our derivatives, for which hedge accounting is not applied, are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are required to be recognized each period at fair
value, with gains and losses reported in earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Income and therefore do result in some level of earnings volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges
outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities in our Consolidated
Statements of Cash Flows. Refer to Note 10 – Derivatives for more information.  Interest Rate Management:
We have an interest rate swap agreement to effectively convert the interest on an operating lease from a variable to a fixed rate. At the end of each reporting period, the fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is calculated. The fair
value is recorded as an asset or liability. The effective gain or loss is recorded as a debit or credit to AOCI in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and any ineffectiveness is recorded immediately to rent expense in our Consolidated Statements of
Income. Upon maturity, any gain or loss within AOCI is reclassified into earnings in the then-current period. Refer to Note 10 – Derivatives for more information.  Foreign Currency Management: The fair value of foreign currency related derivatives is included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets in other current assets and accrued liabilities. The earnings
impact of cash flow hedges relating to forecasted purchases of inventory in foreign currency is reported in cost of sales to match the underlying transaction being hedged. Unrealized gains and losses on these instruments are deferred in AOCI in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets until the underlying transaction is recognized in earnings. The earnings impact of cash flow hedges relating to the variability in cash flows associated with foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities is reported
in cost of sales, SG&A or other expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income, depending on the nature of the assets or liabilities being hedged. The amounts deferred in AOCI in our Consolidated Balance Sheets associated with these
instruments relate to spot-to-spot foreign currency differentials from the date of designation until the hedged transaction takes place.   Severance and Exit Costs: We recognize liabilities for severance and exit costs based upon the nature of the liability incurred. For involuntary separation programs that are conducted according to
the guidelines of our written involuntary separation plan or according to the provisions of collective bargaining agreements or statutes, 
  61 


Table of Contents

we recognize the liability when it is probable and reasonably estimable. For one-time termination benefits, such as additional severance pay, and other exit costs, such as lease and other
contract termination costs, the liability is measured and originally recognized at fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred, with subsequent changes recognized in the period of change. Refer to Note 15 – Restructuring
for more information.  Share-Based Compensation: Share-based compensation expense is recognized based on the estimated
fair value of stock options and similar equity instruments awarded to employees. Refer to Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity and Share-Based Compensation for more information. 
AOCI: At June 30, 2012 and 2011 AOCI consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
June 30,
 

 Income/(Loss):
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Cumulative translation adjustment
  
$
45,894
  
 
$
182,134
  

 Pension liability adjustment
  
 
(38,447
) 
 
 
(18,303
) 

 Unrealized gains (losses) on hedging derivatives
  
 
26,296
  
 
 
(23,184
) 

 Unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities
  
 
(4,034
) 
 
 
(3,914
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total AOCI
  
$
29,709
  
 
$
136,733
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Share Buy-Back Program: On October 26, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors
authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million of our common stock. Refer to Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity and Share-Based Compensation for more information. We repurchased 3.2 million of shares of our common stock for a
total purchase price of $123.9 million in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.  Treasury Stock: We account for
repurchased common stock under the cost method and include such treasury stock as a component of our shareholder’s equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Retirement of treasury stock is recorded as a reduction of common stock and additional
paid-in-capital in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at the time such retirement is approved by our Board of Directors. Refer to Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity and Share-Based Compensation for more information on shares of our common
stock that were repurchased and included as treasury stock during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.  Recently Adopted Accounting
Pronouncements  Goodwill Impairment Testing: In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2011-08, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment” (“ASU 2011-08”). The new guidance is intended to simplify how entities
test goodwill for impairment. It includes provisions that permit an entity to first assess qualitative factors in determining whether it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as
a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim
goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted. We adopted the provisions of this new guidance in September 2011. The adoption of the new provisions did not have any impact on
our financial condition or results of operations.  Intangibles, Goodwill and Other: In December 2010, the FASB issued
ASU 2010-28, “Intangibles—Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts.” The new guidance requires that reporting units with zero or
negative carrying amounts perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. The new guidance is effective for us for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010. We adopted the
provisions of this new guidance on July 1, 2011. The adoption of the new provisions did not have any impact on our financial condition or results of operations as we had no reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Business Combinations: In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-29, “Business
Combinations (Topic 805): Disclosure of Supplementary Pro Forma Information for Business Combinations.” The new guidance specifies that when comparative financial statements are presented, the revenue and earnings of the combined entity should
be disclosed as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period only. The new guidance applies prospectively to us for business combinations that
occur on or after July 1, 2011. We adopted the new provisions on July 1, 2011. The impact of these new provisions on our consolidated financial statements will depend upon the nature, terms and size of the acquisitions we consummate in the
future.  Fair Value: In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to
Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” The new guidance does not extend the use of fair value accounting, but provides guidance on how to apply fair value accounting where its use is already
required or permitted by other standards within GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”). The new guidance also changes the wording used to describe many requirements in GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing
information about fair value measurements and it clarifies the FASB’s intent about the application of existing fair value measurements. Provisions of the new guidance include a requirement that for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements,
entities disclose quantitative information about unobservable inputs, a description of the valuation process used and qualitative details about the sensitivity of the measurements. In addition, for items not carried at fair value but for which fair
value is disclosed, entities are required to disclose the level within the fair value hierarchy that applies to the fair value measurement disclosed. The new guidance applies prospectively and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning
after December 15, 2011. We adopted the provisions of this new guidance on January 1, 2012 and expanded our disclosures on fair value measurements. Refer to Note 11 – Fair Value Measurements for more information. The adoption
of the new provisions did not have any impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  Recently Issued
Accounting Standards  Intangible Assets: In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU 2012-02, “Testing
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets for Impairment,” which allows companies to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets is necessary, similar in approach to the
goodwill impairment test. The new guidance allows an entity the option to first assess qualitatively whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, thus
necessitating that it perform the quantitative impairment test. An entity is not required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset and perform the quantitative impairment test unless the entity determines that it is more
likely than not that the asset is impaired. The new guidance is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. Early adoption is permitted for annual and interim impairment tests
performed as of a date before July 27, 2012, if the financial statements for the most recent annual or interim period have not yet been issued. We will adopt the provisions of this new guidance on July 1, 2013. We do not expect the
adoption of the new provisions to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  Balance
Sheet: In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11, “Balance Sheet (Topic 210), Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities,” which requires companies to disclose information about financial instruments that have been offset
and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial condition. Companies will be required to provide both net (offset amounts) and gross information in the notes to the
financial statements for relevant assets and liabilities that are offset. The new guidance is effective retrospectively for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2013. We will adopt the
provisions of this new guidance on July 1, 2013. We do not expect the adoption of the new provisions to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
  63 


Table of Contents
Comprehensive Income: In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, “Comprehensive
Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (“ASU 2011-05”). The new guidance requires that all non-owner changes in stockholders’ equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income
or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both cases, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income,
and a total amount for comprehensive income. If presented in a single continuous statement, the entity is required to present the components of net income and total net income, the components of other comprehensive income and a total for other
comprehensive income, along with the total of comprehensive income in that statement. If presented in the two-statement approach, the first statement, which is the statement of net income, should present components of net income and total net income
followed consecutively by a second statement, which is the statement of other comprehensive income, that should present the components of other comprehensive income, total other comprehensive income and a total amount for comprehensive income.
Regardless of the method used, the entity is required to present on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components
of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of
Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05” (“ASU 2011-12”). ASU 2011-12 temporarily deferred the requirement to present on the face of the financial
statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The guidance in
ASU 2011-05, as amended, is effective retrospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. We will adopt the provisions of this new guidance on July 1, 2012. We do not expect
the adoption of the new provisions to have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 
Note 2 – Acquisitions 
MWM Acoustics  On July 22, 2011 (the “Acquisition Date”), we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Harman Holding Limited (“Harman Holding”), entered into an equity securities purchase agreement with
a group of sellers (the “MWM Sellers”), to acquire all of the issued and outstanding equity interests of MWM Acoustics LLC and certain related entities (“MWM Acoustics”), a leading provider of high performance embedded acoustic
solutions (the “MWM Acquisition”), for a purchase price of $80.0 million (the “Fixed Purchase Price”), plus a working capital adjustment of $0.1 million which was determined within 60 days of the Acquisition Date and has been
paid. On the Acquisition Date, we and Harman Holding paid the MWM Sellers a total of $72.0 million. The remainder of the Fixed Purchase Price of $8.0 million will be payable on the later of December 31, 2012, or upon the resolution of any
outstanding indemnification claims. The MWM Acquisition is also subject to a $57.0 million earn-out, which is payable contingent upon the achievement of certain financial targets in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014. Our preliminary valuation
of the contingent consideration is $22.1 million. The MWM Acquisition complements and expands our existing microphone and embedded acoustic business and provides access to MWM Acoustics’ blue-chip customer base. 
  64 


Table of Contents
The total cost of the MWM Acquisition, including the fair value of the contingent
consideration, was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the Acquisition Date, as follows:   








 
  
July 22, 2011
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
1,465
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
4,434
  

 Inventories
  
 
1,062
  

 Other current assets
  
 
42
  


  
  
  
 

 Current assets
  
 
7,003
  

 Property, plant and equipment
  
 
273
  

 Goodwill
  
 
79,757
  

 Intangibles
  
 
20,600
  

 Other noncurrent assets
  
 
1,091
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
 
108,724
  


  
  
  
 

 Accounts payable
  
 
5,187
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
206
  


  
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
5,393
  

 Other noncurrent liabilities
  
 
1,125
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
6,518
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets
  
$
102,206
  


  
  
  
 
 Goodwill and intangibles were recorded in connection with the acquisition based on third-party valuations
and management’s estimates for those acquired intangible assets. Goodwill was calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the future economic benefits arising from other assets
acquired that could not be individually identified and separately recognized. Of the $79.8 million of goodwill recognized, approximately $35.6 million is deductible for tax purposes. Intangible assets included customer relationships of $19.2 million
with an approximate useful life of 10 years and technology of $1.4 million with an approximate useful life of four years. Expenses of $0.9 million were recognized in connection with this acquisition and are included in SG&A in our Consolidated
Statements of Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. The operating results of MWM Acoustics, now known as Harman Embedded Audio, are included in our Lifestyle segment. Pro-forma financial information has not been presented as the MWM
Acquisition is not material to our results of operations.  3dB Research Limited 
On February 10, 2011 (the “3dB Acquisition Date”), we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of 3dB Research
Limited (“3dB”), a leading developer of music and signal processing technology, for a total purchase price of $3.0 million, which was subject to a working capital adjustment as of the 3dB Acquisition Date of $0.5 million. On the 3dB
Acquisition Date, we paid $2.3 million in cash to the sellers, which consisted of 60 percent of the purchase price of $1.8 million plus a working capital adjustment of $0.5 million. The remainder of the purchase price of $1.2 million will be paid in
three equal installments on the first, second and third anniversary dates of the 3dB Acquisition Date. The total cost of the acquisition was allocated to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The
excess of the purchase price over the net assets acquired was allocated to intangible assets. We incurred less than $0.1 million of transaction costs in connection with this acquisition, which are included in SG&A in our Consolidated Statement
of Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. The operating results of 3dB, now known as Harman International Industries Canada Limited, are included in our Professional segment. Pro-forma financial information has not been presented as
3dB is not material to our results of operations. 
  65 


Table of Contents
Aha Mobile  On September 13, 2010 (the “Aha Acquisition Date”), we acquired Aha Mobile (“Aha”), a provider of on-demand mobile and location-based internet content services, for $1.8 million,
which we paid in cash on the Aha Acquisition Date. The total cost of the acquisition was allocated to intangible assets, based on their estimated fair values. We incurred less than $0.1 million of transaction costs in connection with this
acquisition, which are included in SG&A in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. The operating results of Aha are included in our Infotainment segment. Pro-forma financial information has not been
presented as Aha is not material to our results of operations.  Eletrônica Selenium S.A. 
On June 1, 2010, Harman do Brasil Industria Eletrônica e Participacoes Ltda., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Harman
purchased all of the issued and outstanding shares of Eletrônica Selenium S.A. (“Selenium”) for an aggregate purchase price of $76.7 million, of which $65.1 million was paid at closing, and approximately $10 million of the remaining
portion of the purchase price was due in June 2011. The remaining portion of the purchase price was $11.2 million after adjusting for foreign currency translation and was paid in June 2011. The remaining $1.6 million of the purchase price is payable
subject to the resolution of certain contingencies. The results of operations for Selenium are included in our Consolidated Statements of Income as of June 1, 2010. Selenium, now known as Harman do Brasil, is a Brazilian manufacturer of
loudspeaker products, using engineered technology based on international standards, and sells a full line of products including loudspeakers, high quality line arrays, multi-systems, amplifiers, drivers and other components related to the sound
systems market. As a result of the acquisition, we expect to expand our distribution in Brazil and Latin America and drive more business opportunities in this region across our Infotainment, Lifestyle and Professional segments. 
The total cost of the acquisition was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the
acquisition date, as follows:   








 
  
June 1, 2010
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
1,259
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
14,788
  

 Inventories
  
 
8,139
  

 Other current assets
  
 
2,236
  


  
  
  
 

 Current assets
  
 
26,422
  

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  
 
8,903
  

 Goodwill
  
 
56,661
  

 Intangibles
  
 
14,168
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
 
106,154
  


  
  
  
 

 Accounts payable
  
 
1,880
  

 Short-term debt
  
 
13,706
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
11,389
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
1,522
  


  
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
28,497
  

 Long-term debt
  
 
257
  

 Other liabilities
  
 
679
  


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
29,433
  


  
  
  
 

 Net assets
  
$
76,721
  


  
  
  
 
 Based on our final valuation, goodwill and intangibles were recorded in connection with the acquisition
based on third-party valuations and management’s estimates for those acquired intangible assets. The final 
  66 


Table of Contents

amount of goodwill recorded of $56.7 million decreased by $2.3 million during fiscal year 2011, as a result of final adjustments to the acquired net assets. Intangible assets included trade names
of $8.9 million with an approximate 70 month life, distribution channels of $4.0 million with approximate useful lives ranging between 15 months to 35 months and a non-compete agreement of $1.3 million with an approximate 20 month to 60 month useful
life. Expenses of $1.5 million were recognized in connection with this acquisition and are included in SG&A in our Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. 
Note 3 – Discontinued Operations 
On April 9, 2010, we and our wholly-owned subsidiary, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG (“Harman
KG”) entered into a share purchase agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) to sell all of the issued and outstanding shares of QNX Software Systems Co., QNX Software Systems (Wavemakers), Inc. and QNX Software Systems, Inc.
(collectively, the “QNX Entities”) for $200 million. The sale closed on June 1, 2010. In connection with this transaction, we recognized a gain of $152.7 million ($114.2 million, net of income taxes) in our Consolidated Statement of
Income for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 which is included in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes. The sale price was subject to a working capital adjustment of $0.1 million, which is also included in the gain. The
results of operations for the QNX Entities have been reclassified to discontinued operations in all periods presented. The tax expense within discontinued operations for fiscal year 2010 includes an expense of $35.4 million relating to tax on
previously permanently reinvested earnings. Following the sale of the QNX Entities, we intended to repatriate a portion of these earnings and therefore had recorded a deferred income tax liability as of June 30, 2010 as a result of our planned
repatriation to the U.S. of the proceeds resulting from such sale. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, we repatriated these earnings previously provided for.  The operations of the QNX Entities have been segregated from continuing operations and are reflected as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows: 
 








 
  
Year EndedJune 
30, 2010
 

 Net sales
  
$
35,309
  

 Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
114,197
  

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
9,394
  

 Net income from discontinued operations
  
 
123,591
  

 Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations
  
 
1.75
  

Note 4 – Inventories 
At June 30, 2012 and 2011, inventories from continuing operations consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 Finished goods
  
$
161,124
  
  
$
153,469
  

 Work in process
  
 
69,577
  
  
 
67,534
  

 Raw materials
  
 
196,896
  
  
 
202,134
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Inventories
  
$
427,597
  
  
$
423,137
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At June 30, 2012 and 2011 our inventory reserves were $61.9 million and $73.3 million, respectively.

  67 


Table of Contents
Note 5 – Property, Plant & Equipment, net 
At June 30, 2012 and 2011, property, plant and equipment from continuing operations consisted of the following:
  














 
  
EstimatedUseful Lives(in Years)
  
June 30,
 

  
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Land
  

  
$
8,046
  
 
$
11,974
  

 Buildings and improvements
  
1-50
  
 
254,563
  
 
 
280,053
  

 Machinery and equipment
  
3-20
  
 
1,002,539
  
 
 
1,050,892
  

 Furniture and fixtures
  
3-10
  
 
29,423
  
 
 
30,769
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment, gross
  

  
 
1,294,571
  
 
 
1,373,688
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
  

  
 
(864,337
) 
 
 
(903,388
) 


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property, plant and equipment, net
  

  
$
430,234
  
 
$
470,300
  


  

  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $110.1 million,
$115.5 million and $127.7 million, respectively. 
Note 6 – Accrued Warranties 
At June 30, 2012 and 2011, details of our accrued warranties from continuing operations consisted of the
following:   












 
  
June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Accrued warranties, beginning of year
  
$
122,396
  
 
$
99,329
  

 Warranty expense
  
 
49,224
  
 
 
52,849
  

 Warranty payments (cash or in-kind)
  
 
(60,319
) 
 
 
(45,964
) 


Other(1)

  
 
(14,012
) 
 
 
16,182
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accrued warranties, end of year
  
$
97,289
  
 
$
122,396
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Other primarily represents foreign currency translation. 
  68 


Table of Contents
Note 7 – Earnings Per Share 
We apply the two-class method when computing earnings per share, which requires that net income per share for each
class of shares entitled to dividends be calculated assuming all of our net income is distributed as dividends to these shareholders based on their contractual rights.  The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock outstanding:   




























 
 
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
Basic
 
 
Diluted
 
 
Basic
 
 
Diluted
 
 
Basic
 
 
Diluted
 

 Numerator for Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Income from continuing operations, net of income taxes
 
$
329,541
  
 
$
329,541
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
40,467
  
 
$
40,467
  

 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,289
  
 
 
5,289
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
 
329,541
  
 
 
329,541
  
 
 
135,916
  
 
 
135,916
  
 
 
35,178
  
 
 
35,178
  

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
123,591
  
 
 
123,591
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
$
329,541
  
 
$
329,541
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
135,916
  
 
$
158,769
  
 
$
158,769
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Denominator for Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Weighted average shares outstanding
 
 
71,297
  
 
 
71,297
  
 
 
70,992
  
 
 
70,992
  
 
 
70,350
  
 
 
70,350
  

 Employee stock options
 
 
0
  
 
 
786
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
643
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
245
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total weighted average shares outstanding
 
 
71,297
  
 
 
72,083
  
 
 
70,992
  
 
 
71,635
  
 
 
70,350
  
 
 
70,595
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Earnings per Share:
 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
$
4.62
  
 
$
4.57
  
 
$
1.91
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
0.50
  
 
$
0.50
  

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
0.00
  
 
 
1.76
  
 
 
1.75
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated
 
$
4.62
  
 
$
4.57
  
 
$
1.91
  
 
$
1.90
  
 
$
2.26
  
 
$
2.25
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend
equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are considered participating securities, as defined under GAAP, and are included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two-class method. 
Certain options were outstanding and not included in the computation of diluted net earnings per share because the assumed exercise of
these options would have been antidilutive. Options to purchase 1,685,144, 1,661,273 and 2,350,820 shares of our common stock at June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were outstanding and not included in the computation of diluted
earnings per share because the exercise of these options would have been antidilutive. In addition, 3,000, 712 and 0 restricted shares and restricted stock units at June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were outstanding, respectively, and not included
in the computation of diluted earnings per share as they also would have been antidilutive. 
  69 


Table of Contents
The conversion terms of our $400 million of 1.25 percent convertible senior notes due
October 2012 (“Convertible Senior Notes”) will affect the calculation of diluted earnings per share if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes. The initial conversion price of the
Convertible Senior Notes was approximately $104 per share, subject to adjustment in specified circumstances as described in the indenture governing the Convertible Senior Notes, as amended (the “Indenture”). Upon conversion, a holder
of the Convertible Senior Notes will receive an amount per Convertible Senior Note in cash equal to the lesser of $1,000 or the conversion value of the Convertible Senior Notes, determined in the manner set forth in the Indenture. If the
conversion value exceeds $1,000, we will deliver $1,000 in cash and at our option, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion price in excess of $1,000. The conversion option is indexed to our common stock
and therefore is classified as equity. The conversion option will not result in an adjustment to net income in calculating diluted earnings per share. The dilutive effect of the conversion option will be calculated using the treasury stock
method. Therefore, conversion settlement shares will be included in diluted shares outstanding if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes. Refer to Note 9 – Debt for more
information. 
Note 8 – Goodwill 
In September 2011, we adopted ASU 2011-08, under which an entity may first assess qualitative factors in determining
whether it is “more likely than not” that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Adoption of this guidance
had no impact on our financial condition or results of operations as no events came to our attention indicating that the fair values of our reporting units might be less than their carrying values. Refer to Note 1 – Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies for more information. In fiscal year 2012, we did not elect to first assess the qualitative factors in evaluating our goodwill for impairment; therefore, we proceeded with our quantitative goodwill impairment test.
 We test for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis as of April 30th of every year and between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. Refer to Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for more information on how we test goodwill for
impairment. The annual goodwill impairment tests conducted as of April 30, 2012 and 2011 indicated that the fair value of each reporting unit was substantially in excess of its carrying value and, as such, no impairments were deemed to exist.
 Effective July 1, 2011, we revised our business segments in order to better align them with our strategic approach to
the markets and customers we serve. Under this new structure, our reportable segments consist of the Infotainment, Lifestyle, Professional and Other segments. Our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments with the exception of our
Lifestyle segment, which consists of two reporting units, automotive audio and home audio. In connection with this realignment, we reallocated our goodwill to our new reporting units based on each reporting unit’s relative fair value. We also
performed a goodwill impairment test as of July 1, 2011 using our new reporting units and determined that the fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its carrying value, therefore, no impairments were deemed to exist as of this date.
Refer to Note 17 – Business Segment Data for more information.  During the first half of fiscal year 2010, we
determined that goodwill related to our Infotainment segment and a reporting unit within our Lifestyle segment were impaired and we recognized impairment charges of $7.4 million and $4.9 million, respectively, in our Consolidated Statement of Income
for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. During the second half of fiscal year 2010, as a result of the sustained improvements in the operating results of these reporting units due to improvements in economic conditions and realized savings
resulting from our cost cutting initiatives, we performed a goodwill impairment test which demonstrated that the calculated fair value of our reporting units exceeded the respective carrying values and therefore no impairments existed in any of our
reporting units. As a result, we ceased recognizing goodwill impairment charges associated with incremental goodwill that was recognized related to contingent purchase price arrangements. 
  70 


Table of Contents
Goodwill was $180.8 million at June 30, 2012 compared with $119.4 million at
June 30, 2011. The increase in goodwill in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 versus the prior fiscal year is primarily related to goodwill associated with the MWM Acquisition of $79.8 million offset to a certain extent by foreign
currency translation. Refer to Note 2 – Acquisitions for more information.  Goodwill was $119.4 million at
June 30, 2011 compared with $105.9 million at June 30, 2010. The increase in goodwill in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 versus the prior fiscal year is primarily related to foreign currency translation, contingent purchase price
consideration associated with the acquisition of innovative Systems GmbH (“IS”) of $5.7 million and goodwill related to the acquisition of 3dB of $0.6 million, offset by approximately $4.5 million of purchase price adjustments for prior
year acquisitions, primarily related to the acquisition of Selenium. Refer to Note 2 – Acquisitions for more information. The contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of IS is calculated pursuant to the
terms of an agreement between the parties. On March 31, 2011, the IS sellers sent us a letter to exercise their option to have the value of the future contingent purchase consideration determined by a major international accounting firm. The
parties are currently disputing certain terms under such agreement and until such time as the dispute is resolved we will not be able to calculate the final purchase price.  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by business segment for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: 
 
























 
  
Infotainment
 
 
Lifestyle
 
 
Professional
 
 
Other
 
  
Total
 

 Balance, June 30, 2010
  
$
3,701
  
 
$
33,112
  
 
$
69,109
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
105,922
  

 Acquisitions and adjustments
  
 
0
  
 
 
(1,476
) 
 
 
(2,426
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(3,902
) 

 Contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of IS
  
 
3,465
  
 
 
2,272
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
5,737
  

 Other adjustments(1)
  
 
903
  
 
 
5,259
  
 
 
5,438
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
11,600
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2011
  
$
8,069
  
 
$
39,167
  
 
$
72,121
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
119,357
  

 Acquisitions and adjustments
  
 
0
  
 
 
79,757
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
79,757
  

 Contingent purchase price consideration associated with the acquisition of IS
  
 
(1,258
) 
 
 
(825
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(2,083
) 

 Other adjustments(1)
  
 
(955
) 
 
 
(8,154
) 
 
 
(7,111
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
(16,220
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, June 30, 2012
  
$
5,856
  
 
$
109,945
  
 
$
65,010
  
 
$
0
  
  
$
180,811
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 The other adjustments to goodwill primarily consist of foreign currency translation adjustments. 
Note 9 – Debt 
Short Term Borrowings  At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had $0.2 million and $1.8 million of short-term borrowings outstanding, respectively. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we maintained lines of credit of $17.8 million and
$20.8 million in the aggregate, respectively, in Hungary, the U.S., Austria and Brazil.  We classify our debt based on the
contractual maturity dates of the underlying debt instruments. We defer costs associated with debt issuance over the applicable term of the debt. These costs are amortized to Interest expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income.

  71 


Table of Contents
Long-Term Debt and Current Portion of Long-Term-Debt 
At June 30, 2012 and 2011, long-term debt and current portion of long-term debt consisted of the following: 
 




















 
  
Face Value atJune 30, 2012
 
 
Book Value atJune 30, 2012
 
 
Face Value atJune 30, 2011
 
 
Book Value atJune 30, 2011
 

 Convertible senior notes due 2012, interest due semi-annually at 1.25 percent(1) 
  
$
400,000
  
 
$
395,009
  
 
$
400,000
  
 
$
378,401
  

 Other obligations
  
 
452
  
 
 
452
  
 
 
828
  
 
 
828
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt(2)
  
 
400,452
  
 
 
395,461
  
 
 
400,828
  
 
 
379,229
  

 Less: current portion of long-term debt
  
 
(400,400
) 
 
 
(395,409
) 
 
 
(828
) 
 
 
(828
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total long-term debt
  
$
52
  
 
$
52
  
 
$
400,000
  
 
$
378,401
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Book values as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 are presented net of unamortized discounts of $5.0 million and $21.6 million, respectively, resulting
from the adoption of new accounting guidance in fiscal year 2010. The fair value of the Convertible Senior Notes at June 30, 2012 and 2011 was $395.0 million and $383.9 million, respectively. 


(2) 
 Other obligations of $52 thousand and $442 thousand are recorded in Other non-current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30,
2012 and 2011, respectively.  Interest expense is reported net of interest income in our Consolidated
Statements of Income. Interest expense, net was $20.1 million, $22.6 million and $30.2 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Gross interest expense was $27.0 million, $32.5 million and $33.8 million for
the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of which $19.1 million, $19.3 million and $17.4 million, respectively, was non-cash interest expense associated with the amortization of the debt discount on the Convertible
Senior Notes and the amortization of debt issuance costs on the Convertible Senior Notes and our revolving credit facilities, and $7.9 million, $13.2 million and $16.4 million was cash interest expense for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively. Interest income was $6.9 million, $9.9 million and $3.6 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Refer to the heading “Revolving Credit Facility” below for more
information on our revolving credit facility.  Cash paid for interest, net of cash received was $3.1 million, $5.0 million and
$15.0 million in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  At June 30, 2012, long-term
debt maturing in each of the next five fiscal years and thereafter is as follows:   








 2013
  
$
400,400
  

 2014
  
 
10
  

 2015
  
 
10
  

 2016
  
 
10
  

 2017
  
 
10
  

 Thereafter
  
 
12
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
400,452
  


  
  
  
 
 Revolving Credit Facility  On December 1, 2010, we and one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Harman KG, entered into a Multi-Currency Credit Agreement with a group of banks, as amended on December 15, 2011(the
“Credit Agreement”). The Credit Agreement provides for a five- year secured revolving credit facility which expires on December 1, 2015 (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) in the amount of $550 million (the “Aggregate
Commitment”), of which up to $60 million will be available for letters of credit. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, the Aggregate Commitment may be increased up to a maximum aggregate amount of $700 million.

  72 


Table of Contents
The Credit Agreement effectively replaced our previous revolving credit facility, the second
amended and restated multi-currency, multi-option credit agreement dated March 31, 2009, as amended (the “2009 Credit Agreement”), which had a maximum borrowing capacity of $231.6 million (the “2009 Maximum Borrowing
Capacity”), including outstanding letters of credit. As a result of such replacement, we voluntarily terminated the 2009 Credit Agreement. There were no outstanding borrowings under the 2009 Credit Agreement as of December 1, 2010, and we
incurred no early termination penalties due to the termination of the 2009 Credit Agreement.  Interest rates for borrowings
under the Revolving Credit Facility range from 0.875 percent to 1.375 percent above the applicable base rate for base rate loans and range from 1.875 percent to 2.375 percent above the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) for
Eurocurrency loans based on our Total Leverage Ratio (as defined below). In addition, we are obligated to pay an annual facility fee on the Aggregate Commitment, whether drawn or undrawn, ranging from 0.375 percent to 0.625 percent based on our
Total Leverage Ratio. Any proceeds from borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes.  Interest rates for borrowings under the 2009 Credit Agreement were 3.0 percent above the applicable base rate for base rate loans and 4.0 percent above LIBOR for Eurocurrency loans. In addition, the
annual facility fee rate payable under the 2009 Credit Agreement was one percent based on the 2009 Maximum Borrowing Capacity, whether drawn or undrawn.  The Credit Agreement contains financial condition covenants that require us to maintain the following ratios, each calculated as of the end of the applicable fiscal quarter on a rolling four-quarter
basis:   


 
•
 
 The ratio of consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) less capital expenditures, to
consolidated cash interest expense, must be more than 3.25 to 1.00 (the “Interest Coverage Ratio”);   


 
•
 
 The ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated EBITDA must be less than 4.00 to 1.00 (the “Total Leverage Ratio”); and
  


 
•
 
 The ratio of consolidated senior debt to consolidated EBITDA must be less than 3.00 to 1.00 (the “Senior Leverage Ratio”).
 The Credit Agreement also contains covenants that require us to maintain minimum levels of liquidity in
certain specified circumstances and imposes limitations on our ability to do the following: incur debt, place liens on our assets, make fundamental changes, sell assets, make investments, undertake transactions with affiliates, undertake sale and
leaseback transactions, incur guarantee obligations, modify or prepay certain material debt (including the Convertible Senior Notes), enter into hedging agreements, pay dividends, make capital expenditures and acquire certain types of collateral.
 The Revolving Credit Facility is subject to acceleration upon certain specified events of default, including failure to make
timely payments, breaches of representations or covenants, or a change in control of our Company, as defined in the Credit Agreement.  At June 30, 2012, we had no borrowings under the Credit Agreement and had outstanding letters of credit of $8.7 million. Unused available credit under the Credit Agreement was $541.3 million at
June 30, 2012. In connection with the Credit Agreement, we incurred $7.0 million in fees and other expenses which have been capitalized within Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. These costs are being amortized on a
straight-line basis to Interest expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income over the expected remaining term of the Credit Agreement. In fiscal year 2011, we wrote off $0.7 million of debt issuance costs associated with the 2009 Credit
Agreement, which represented the portion of these costs that were attributed to the 2009 Credit Agreement.  If we do not meet
the forecast in our budgets, we could violate our debt covenants and, absent a waiver from our lenders or an amendment to our Credit Agreement, we could be in default under the Credit Agreement. As a

  73 


Table of Contents

result, our debt under the Credit Agreement could become due, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A default under the Credit
Agreement, if the lenders were to accelerate the amounts due thereunder, could also lead to an event of default under the Indenture and the acceleration of the Convertible Senior Notes. As of June 30, 2012, we were in compliance with all
the financial covenants of the Credit Agreement.  Guarantee and Collateral Agreement 
In connection with the Credit Agreement, we and Harman KG entered into a guarantee and collateral agreement (the “Guarantee and
Collateral Agreement”) which provides, among other things, that the obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by us and each of the subsidiary guarantors party thereto, and that the obligations generally are secured by liens on
substantially all of our assets and certain of our subsidiary guarantors’ assets.  The term of the Guarantee and
Collateral Agreement corresponds with the term of the Credit Agreement, which matures on December 1, 2015. Under the terms of this Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, we have effectively guaranteed the payment of the full amount of
borrowings under the Credit Agreement, including outstanding letters of credit, upon maturity. The potential amount of future payments that we would be required to pay under the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement is the amount that we have
borrowed under the Credit Agreement, including outstanding letters of credit. At June 30, 2012, we had no borrowings under the Credit Agreement and had outstanding letters of credit of $8.7 million. 
Convertible Senior Notes  We had $400 million of Convertible Senior Notes outstanding at June 30, 2012 and 2011 which were issued on October 23, 2007 (the “Issuance Date”) and are due on October 15, 2012.
The Convertible Senior Notes were issued at par and we pay interest at a rate of 1.25 percent per annum on a semiannual basis. The initial conversion rate on the Convertible Senior Notes is 9.6154 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal
amount of the Convertible Senior Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $104 per share). The conversion rate is subject to adjustment in specified circumstances described in the Indenture. 
Accounting guidance issued by the FASB requires the issuer of convertible debt instruments with cash settlement features to account
separately for the liability and equity components of the instrument. Under this guidance, the debt is recognized at the present value of its cash flows discounted using the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate at the time of issuance
and the equity component is recognized as the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the note and the fair value of the liability, net of taxes. The reduced carrying value on the convertible debt results in a debt discount that is
accreted back to the convertible debt’s principal amount through the recognition of noncash interest expense over the expected life of the debt, which results in recognizing interest expense on these borrowings at effective rates approximating
what we would have incurred had nonconvertible debt with otherwise similar terms been issued.  In accordance with this
guidance, we measured the fair value of the debt components of the Convertible Senior Notes at the Issuance Date using an effective interest rate of 5.6 percent. As a result, we attributed $75.7 million of the proceeds received to the conversion
feature of the Convertible Senior Notes at the Issuance Date, which is netted against the face value of the Convertible Senior Notes as a debt discount. This amount represents the excess proceeds received over the fair value of the Convertible
Senior Notes at the Issuance Date and is being accreted back to the principal amount of the Convertible Senior Notes through the recognition of noncash interest expense over the expected life of the Convertible Senior Notes. In addition, we recorded
$48.3 million within additional paid-in capital in our Consolidated Balance Sheets representing the equity component of the Convertible Senior Notes, which is net of deferred taxes. The effect of this guidance has resulted in a decrease to net
income and earnings per share for all periods presented; however, there is no effect on our cash interest payments. 
  74 


Table of Contents
The principal amounts, unamortized discount and net carrying amounts of the liability
components and the equity components for the Convertible Senior Notes as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 are as follows:   




















 
  
PrincipalBalance
 
  
UnamortizedDiscount
 
 
NetCarryingAmount
 
  
EquityComponent
 

 June 30, 2012
  
$
400,000
  
  
$
(4,991
) 
 
$
395,009
  
  
$
48,323
  

 June 30, 2011
  
$
400,000
  
  
$
(21,599
) 
 
$
378,401
  
  
$
48,323
  
 At June 30, 2012, the Convertible Senior Notes are classified as a current liability as Current
portion of long-term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as they are due on October 15, 2012, which is in less than one year. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, the unamortized discount is recognized as a reduction in the carrying value of the
Convertible Senior Notes in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and is being amortized to Interest expense, net in our Consolidated Statement of Income over the expected remaining term of the Convertible Senior Notes of four months. 
Debt issuance costs of $4.8 million were recorded in connection with this transaction and are included in Other assets in our
Consolidated Balance Sheets and are also being amortized to Interest expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income over the expected remaining term of the Convertible Senior Notes. The unamortized balance of debt issuance costs at
June 30, 2012 and 2011 was $0.3 million and $1.1 million, respectively.  Total interest expense related to the
Convertible Senior Notes for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 includes $5.0 million in all fiscal years of contractual cash interest expense and an additional $16.6 million, $15.7 million and $14.8 million of noncash interest
expense, respectively, related to the amortization of the discount and $0.8 million in each fiscal year, related to the amortization of debt issuance costs.  The Indenture contains covenants, one of which required us to calculate the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, as defined in the Indenture, each time we incurred additional
indebtedness, for the most recently ended four quarter period (the “Incurrence of Debt Covenant”). On January 12, 2010, we entered into a supplemental indenture to the Indenture (the “Supplemental Indenture”) which
amended the Incurrence of Debt Covenant. Under the Supplemental Indenture, we were permitted to, without complying with the ratio of Consolidated Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA of 3.25 to 1.00: (a) incur revolving extensions of credit under
the 2009 Credit Agreement, up to a maximum amount of $231.6 million, and (b) incur additional indebtedness, subject to a requirement to make a pro rata offer to purchase a principal face amount of the Convertible Senior Notes equal to 50
percent of the aggregate amount of such indebtedness so incurred, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. The Incurrence of Debt Covenant lapsed on October 23, 2010, and was no longer applicable to us after this date. At June 30, 2012,
we were in compliance with all covenants under the Indenture.  Registration Rights Agreement 
On October 23, 2007, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement requiring us to register the Convertible Senior Notes and the
shares contingently issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes (the “Registration Rights Agreement”). On October 23, 2008, we filed an automatically effective registration statement with the SEC to meet this
requirement. Under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, we were required to keep the registration statement effective until the earlier of (a) such time as the Convertible Senior Notes and the shares contingently issuable under
the Convertible Senior Notes (1) are sold under an effective registration statement or pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, (2) are freely transferable under Rule 144 more than one year following October 23, 2007, or
(3) cease to be outstanding, and (b) five years and three months following October 23, 2007. In the event that we failed to keep the registration statement effective as required under the Registration Rights Agreement, additional
interest was to accrue on the Convertible Senior Notes at the rate of 0.25 percent per annum.
  75 


Table of Contents
On October 21, 2011, we entered into an Amendment to the Registration Rights Agreement
with the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes, which provides for the postponement of our obligation to file a new registration statement covering the Convertible Senior Notes until such time as one of the holders of the Convertible Senior Notes
demands that we file a registration statement. Upon the receipt of such a demand, we will have seven business days to file a registration statement with the SEC covering the Convertible Senior Notes. As of June 30, 2012, the holders of the
Convertible Senior Notes have not demanded that a registration statement be filed. We do not believe it is probable that we will fail to comply with the Registration Rights Agreement, therefore no liability for additional interest has been recorded.

Note 10 – Derivatives 
We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could affect
our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these risks through our regular operating and financial activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. These
derivative instruments are utilized to hedge economic exposures, as well as to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates. We enter into limited types of derivative contracts, including foreign currency spot,
forward and option contracts and an interest rate swap, to manage foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Our primary foreign currency exposure is the Euro. The fair market values of all our derivative contracts change with
fluctuations in interest rates and currency rates and are designed so that any changes in their values are offset by changes in the values of the underlying exposures. Derivative financial instruments are held solely as risk management tools
and not for trading or speculative purposes.  We record all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair
value in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain of these derivative contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges, whereby gains and losses are reported within AOCI in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, until the underlying transaction
occurs, at which point they are reported in earnings as gains and losses in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Certain of our derivatives, for which hedge accounting is not applied, are effective as economic hedges. These derivative
contracts are required to be recognized each period at fair value, with gains and losses reported in earnings in our Consolidated Statements of Income and therefore do result in some level of earnings volatility. The level of volatility will
vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from
operating activities.  Derivatives, by their nature, involve varying degrees of market and credit risk. The market risk
associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant
risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments, because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Furthermore, our policy is to contract only
with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposure to such counterparties.  Foreign Exchange Risk Management  We use foreign exchange contracts
to hedge the price risk associated with foreign denominated forecasted purchases of materials used in our manufacturing process and to manage currency risk associated with operating costs in certain operating units, including foreign currency
denominated intercompany loans and other foreign currency denominated assets. These contracts generally mature in one year or less. The majority of these contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. 
  76 


Table of Contents
At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had outstanding foreign exchange contracts, including
forward and option contracts, which are summarized below:   




















 
  
June 30, 2012
 
 
June 30, 2011
 

 
  
Gross NotionalValue
 
  
Fair ValueAsset/(Liability)(1)
 
 
Gross NotionalValue
 
  
Fair ValueAsset/(Liability)(1)
 

 Currency Hedged (Buy/Sell):
  



  



 



  




 U.S. Dollar/Euro
  
$
686,500
  
  
$
37,962
  
 
$
612,400
  
  
$
(33,760
) 

 Chinese Yuan/U.S. Dollar
  
 
36,040
  
  
 
(428
) 
 
 
6,188
  
  
 
84
  

 Japanese Yen/Euro
  
 
31,280
  
  
 
1,695
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Euro/U.S. Dollar
  
 
28,750
  
  
 
(1,056
) 
 
 
8,200
  
  
 
146
  

 U.S. Dollar/Japanese Yen
  
 
1,800
  
  
 
2
  
 
 
900
  
  
 
(22
) 

 Hungarian Forint/Euro
  
 
8,816
  
  
 
414
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  

 Swiss Franc/U.S. Dollar
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
41,647
  
  
 
516
  

 British Pound/U.S. Dollar
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
20,700
  
  
 
(152
) 

 British Pound/Swiss Franc
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
15,408
  
  
 
(574
) 

 Euro/British Pound
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
11,604
  
  
 
163
  

 U.S. Dollar/Brazilian Real
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
10,400
  
  
 
(1,249
) 

 U.S. Dollar/British Pound
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
8,500
  
  
 
(76
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
793,186
  
  
$
38,589
  
 
$
735,947
  
  
$
(34,924
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Represents the net receivable/(payable) included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Cash Flow Hedges  We
designate a portion of our foreign exchange contracts as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated purchases. As of June 30, 2012 and June 30, 2011, we had $638.3 million of forward contracts and $528.4 million of forward and
option contracts maturing through June 2013 and June 2012, respectively. These contracts are recorded at fair value in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The changes in fair value for these contracts on a spot to spot basis are
reported in AOCI and are reclassified to either Cost of sales or SG&A, depending on the nature of the underlying asset or liability that is being hedged, in our Consolidated Statements of Income, in the period or periods during which the
underlying transaction occurs. If it becomes apparent that an underlying forecasted transaction will not occur, the amount recorded in AOCI related to the hedge is reclassified to Foreign exchange losses, net, in our Consolidated Statements of
Income, in the then-current period. Amounts relating to such reclassifications were immaterial for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010.  Changes in the fair value of the derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the hedged items because the amounts and the maturities of the derivatives approximate those of
the forecasted exposures. Any ineffective portion of the derivative is recognized in the current period in our Consolidated Statements of Income, in the same line item in which the foreign currency gain or loss on the underlying hedged
transaction was recorded. We recognized less than $0.1 million of ineffectiveness in our Consolidated Statements of Income for each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010. All components of each derivative’s gain or
loss, with the exception of forward points (see below), were included in the assessment of hedge ineffectiveness. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of these contracts was a net asset of $29.8 million and a net liability of $25.2
million, respectively. The amount associated with these hedges that is expected to be reclassified from AOCI to earnings within the next 12 months is a gain of $37.1 million. 
We elected to exclude forward points from the effectiveness assessment. At the end of the reporting period we calculate the excluded
amount, which is the fair value relating to the change in forward points that is recorded in current earnings as Foreign exchange losses, net in our Consolidated Statements of Income. For the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we
recognized $4.3 million in net losses, and $1.2 million and $0.1 million, of net gains related to the change in forward points, respectively. 
  77 


Table of Contents
Effective July 1, 2011, we changed the functional currency of two of our foreign
subsidiaries to the U.S. Dollar to reflect a change in the currency in which such subsidiaries primarily generate and expend cash. In addition, we recognized approximately $1.4 million as Foreign exchange losses, net in our Consolidated
Statements of Income for the year ended June 30, 2012, due to the revaluation of certain derivative instruments held at these subsidiaries because we did not meet the requisite documentation requirements to attain hedge accounting
treatment. As of January 1, 2012, the documentation was amended to achieve hedge accounting treatment going forward.  Economic
Hedges  When hedge accounting is not applied to derivative contracts, or after former cash flow hedges have been
de-designated as balance sheet hedges, we recognize the gain or loss on the associated contracts directly in current period earnings in our Consolidated Statement of Income as either Foreign exchange losses, net or Cost of sales according to the
underlying exposure. As of June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had $154.8 million and $207.5 million, respectively, of forward contracts maturing through August 2012 and June 2012, respectively, in various currencies to hedge foreign currency
denominated intercompany loans and other foreign currency denominated assets. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of these contracts was an asset of $8.8 million and a liability of $9.7 million, respectively. Adjustments to the
carrying value of the foreign currency forward contracts offset the gains and losses on the underlying loans and other foreign denominated assets in other Foreign exchange losses, net in our Consolidated Statement of Income. 
Interest Rate Risk Management  We had one interest rate swap contract with a notional amount of $20.3 million and $24.5 million at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, in order to manage our interest rate exposure and effectively
convert interest on an operating lease from a variable rate to a fixed rate. The objective of the swap is to offset changes in rent expenses caused by interest rate fluctuations. The interest rate swap contract is designated as a cash flow
hedge. At the end of each reporting period, the discounted fair value of the swap contract is calculated and recorded in AOCI and reclassified to rent expense, within SG&A in our Consolidated Statements of Income, in the then current
period. If the hedge is determined to be ineffective, the ineffective portion will be reclassified from AOCI and recorded as rent expense, within SG&A. We recognized less than $0.1 million of ineffectiveness in our Consolidated
Statements of Income in each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010. All components of the derivative were included in the assessment of the hedges’ effectiveness. The amount associated with the swap contract that is
expected to be recorded as rent expense in the next 12 months is a loss of $0.7 million. 
  78 


Table of Contents
Fair Value of Derivatives 
  The following tables provide a summary of the fair value amounts of
our derivative instruments as of June 30, 2012 and 2011:   














 
  
 
  
Fair Value
 

 
  
 Balance Sheet Location
  
June 30,2012
 
  
June 30,2011
 

 Derivatives Designated as
Cash Flow Hedges, Gross:
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Other assets:
  

  



  




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Other current assets
  
$
30,761
  
  
$
95
  

 Other liabilities:
  

  



  




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Accrued liabilities
  
 
979
  
  
 
25,335
  

 Interest rate swap
  
Accrued liabilities
  
 
712
  
  
 
625
  

 Interest rate swap
  
Other non-current liabilities
  
 
285
  
  
 
554
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  

  
 
1,976
  
  
 
26,514
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net asset/(liability) for derivatives designated as hedging instruments
  

  
 
28,785
  
  
 
(26,419
) 


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Derivatives Designated as
Economic Hedges, Gross:
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Other assets:
  

  



  




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Other current assets
  
 
9,864
  
  
 
1,032
  

 Other liabilities:
  

  



  




 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Accrued liabilities
  
 
1,057
  
  
 
10,716
  


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net asset/(liability) for economic hedges:
  

  
 
8,807
  
  
 
(9,684
) 


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total net derivative asset/(liability)
  

  
$
37,592
  
  
$
(36,103
) 


  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Derivative Activity:   
The following tables show derivative activity for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011
and 2010:   










































 Derivative
 
Location ofDerivativeGain/(Loss)Recognized inIncome
 
Gain/(Loss)Reclassifiedfrom AOCI into Income(Effective Portion)
 
 
Gain/(Loss)Recognizedin Income 
onDerivatives(IneffectivePortion)
 
 
Gain/(Loss)from AmountsExcluded fromEffectiveness Testing
 

 
 
 
 
Years Ended June 30,
 

 
 
 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
 
Cost of sales
 
$
10,932
  
 
$
(34,063
) 
 
$
(2,028
) 
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
2
  
 
$
15
  
 
$
19
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
 
SG&A
 
 
586
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,203
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
 
Foreignexchangelosses, net
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
14
  
 
 
(4,258
) 
 
 
(330
) 
 
 
(231
) 

 Interest rate swap
 
SG&A
 
 
(624
) 
 
 
(758
) 
 
 
(827
) 
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
(9
) 
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges
 

 
$
10,894
  
 
$
(34,821
) 
 
$
(652
) 
 
$
(7
) 
 
$
12
  
 
$
6
  
 
$
(4,256
) 
 
$
(315
) 
 
$
(212
) 


 

 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
















 Derivative
  
Gain/(Loss) Recognized in AOCI(Effective Portion)
 

 
  
Years Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
$
79,819
  
 
$
(82,165
) 
 
$
27,967
  

 Interest rate swap
  
 
(449
) 
 
 
(105
) 
 
 
(983
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total cash flow hedges
  
$
79,370
  
 
$
(82,270
) 
 
$
26,984
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  79 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes gains and losses from our derivative instruments that are not
designated as hedging instruments for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010:   














 Derivative
  
 Location of Derivative Gain/(Loss)
  
Years Ended June 30,
 

 
  
 
  
    2012    
 
 
    2011    
 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Foreign exchange losses, net
  
$
(7,560
) 
 
$
(1,938
) 

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
Cost of sales
  
$
8,499
  
 
$
(260
) 

Note 11 – Fair Value Measurements 
Pursuant to the accounting guidance for fair value instruments, fair value is defined as the price we would receive to
sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, we consider the principal or most advantageous market
in which the asset or liability would transact in and we consider assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.  Fair Value Hierarchy  Under fair value accounting guidance, there is
a three-tier fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. 
The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs
(Level 3). The three levels are defined as follows:   






 Level 1:
  
Observable inputs, such as unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets for the identical asset or liability.




 Level 2:
  
Inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration, for substantially the full term of the financial
instrument.




 Level 3:
  
Unobservable inputs that reflect the entity’s own assumptions in measuring the asset or liability at fair value.
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis 
For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis, fair value is the price we would receive to sell an asset or pay
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with a market participant at the measurement date. In the absence of active markets for the identical assets and liabilities, such measurements involve developing assumptions based on market
observable data, and in the absence of such data, internal information that is consistent with what market participants would use in a hypothetical transaction that occurs at the measurement date. 
The following table provides the fair value hierarchy for assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis: 
 




























 
  
Fair Value at June 30, 2012
 
 
Fair Value at June 30, 2011
 

 Description
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 
 
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 

 Assets/(Liabilities)
  



  



 



 



  



 




 Short-term investments
  
$
203,014
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
317,322
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
0
  

 Available-for-sale securities
  
 
1,805
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,869
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Foreign exchange contracts
  
 
0
  
  
 
38,589
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(34,924
) 
 
 
0
  

 Interest rate swap
  
 
0
  
  
 
(997
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
  
 
(1,179
) 
 
 
0
  

 Pension assets
  
 
7,011
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
5,258
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  

 Contingent Consideration
  
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
(22,100
) 
 
 
0
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net asset/(liability)
  
$
211,830
  
  
$
37,592
  
 
$
(22,100
) 
 
$
324,449
  
  
$
(36,103
) 
 
$
0
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  80 


Table of Contents
The following describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure assets and liabilities
accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis:  Short-Term Investments and Available-for-Sale Securities: Short-term
investments and available-for-sale securities are classified as Level 1 as the fair value was determined from market quotes obtained from financial institutions in active markets. 
Foreign Exchange Contracts: We use foreign exchange contracts to hedge market risks relating to possible adverse changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. Our foreign exchange contracts were measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. Such inputs include foreign currency exchange spot and forward rates for similar transactions in actively quoted markets. 
Interest Rate Swap: We use an interest rate swap to hedge market risk relating to possible adverse changes in interest rates. We
have elected to use the income approach to value our interest rate swap contract, which uses observable Level 2 inputs at the measurement date and standard valuation techniques to convert future amounts to a single present amount (discounted). Level
2 inputs for the swap contract valuation are limited to quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets (specifically futures contracts on LIBOR, for the first two years) and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for
the asset or liability (specifically LIBOR cash and swap rates) at commonly quoted intervals, and credit risk. These key inputs, including the LIBOR cash rates for very short-term, futures rates for up to two years, and LIBOR swap rates beyond the
derivative maturity are used to construct the swap yield curve and discount the future cash flows to present value at the measurement date. If the interest rate swap contract is a derivative asset, a credit default swap basis available at commonly
quoted intervals can be collected from Bloomberg and applied to all cash flows. If the interest rate swap contract is a derivative liability, we are required to reflect potential credit risk to lenders using a borrowing rate specific to our Company.
Refer to Note 10 – Derivatives, for more information regarding our derivative financial instruments.  Pension
Assets: Our pension assets have been valued using Level 1 inputs as quoted prices in an active market exist for these assets. Refer to Note 16 – Retirement Benefits for more information. 
Contingent Consideration: We use a probability-weighted discounted cash flow approach (a form of the income approach) in
determining the fair value of the contingent consideration related to the MWM Acquisition. The principal inputs to the approach include our expectations of the specific business’ earnings before income taxes (“EBIT”) in fiscal
2014 and a discount rate of 12.6 percent, that begins with our weighted average cost of capital of 19.0 percent and adjusts for the risks associated with the underlying EBIT outcome, the functional form of the payout and our credit risk associated
with making the payment. Given the use of significant inputs that are not observable in the market, the contingent liability is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Refer to Note 2 – Acquisitions for more
information on the contingent liability.  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis 
Certain assets are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These assets are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but
are subject to fair value adjustments only in certain circumstances. These assets can include loans and long-lived assets that have been reduced to fair value when they are held for sale, impaired loans that have been reduced based on the fair value
of the underlying collateral, cost and equity method investments and long-lived assets that are written down to fair value when they are impaired and the remeasurement of retained investments in formerly consolidated subsidiaries upon a change in
control that results in deconsolidation of a subsidiary if we sell a controlling interest and retain a noncontrolling stake in the entity. Assets that are written down to fair value when impaired and retained investments are not subsequently
adjusted to fair value unless further impairment occurs. 
  81 


Table of Contents
The following table provides the carrying value for assets and liabilities measured on a
non-recurring basis, all of which are measured under level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, and the losses recorded during the periods presented:   
























 
  
 
 
  
Total Losses for the YearEnded, June 30,
 

 Description of Assets
  
June 30, 2012
 
  
June 30, 2011
 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Equity method investments
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
0
  
 
$
(2,108
) 
 
$
(13,122
) 

 Goodwill
  
 
180,811
  
  
 
119,357
  
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(12,292
) 

 Long-lived assets
  
 
459,112
  
  
 
491,997
  
  
 
(565
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(1,189
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
639,923
  
  
$
611,354
  
  
$
(565
) 
 
$
(2,108
) 
 
$
(26,603
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following describes the valuation methodologies we use to measure financial and non-financial
instruments accounted for at fair value on a non-recurring basis.  Equity Method Investments. Equity method investments
are generally valued using a discounted cash flow model, comparative market multiples or a combination of both approaches as appropriate. These investments are generally included in Level 3. 
Goodwill: Goodwill is reevaluated for impairment annually or more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that an
impairment loss may have been incurred. This asset is included in Level 3. Refer to Note 8 – Goodwill for more information.  Long-lived Assets. Long-lived assets, including Property, plant and equipment, net and intangible assets are valued using the best information available, including quoted market prices or market
prices for similar assets when available or internal cash flow estimates discounted at an appropriate interest rate or independent appraisals, as appropriate. For real estate, cash flow estimates are based on current market estimates that reflect
current and projected lease profiles and available industry information about expected trends in rental, occupancy and capitalization rates. These assets are generally included in Level 3. 
Note 12 – Leases 
We have obligations under cancelable and non-cancelable capital and operating leases, primarily for land, office and
manufacturing facilities. These leased assets are used in our operations where leasing offers advantages of operating flexibility and is less expensive than alternative types of funding. We had no obligations for capital leases at June 30,
2012. The following analysis represents property under capital leases at June 30, 2011:   








 
  
June 30, 2011
 

 Capital lease assets
  
$
5,824
  

 Less accumulated amortization
  
 
(5,824
) 


  
  
  
 

 Capital lease assets, net
  
$
0
  


  
  
  
 

  82 


Table of Contents
At June 30, 2012, we are obligated for the following minimum lease commitments under
terms of our operating lease agreements:   








 
  
OperatingLeases
 

 2013
  
$
35,244
  

 2014
  
 
30,102
  

 2015
  
 
26,250
  

 2016
  
 
24,483
  

 2017
  
 
23,950
  

 Thereafter
  
 
18,215
  


  
  
  
 

 Total minimum lease payments
  
 
158,244
  


  
  
  
 
 Operating lease expense was $40.5 million, $44.8 million and $40.9 million for each of the fiscal years
ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Note 13 – Income Taxes 
Income from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were as
follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Domestic income (loss)
  
$
63,411
  
  
$
(14,410
) 
 
$
11,818
  

 Foreign income
  
 
197,742
  
  
 
174,630
  
 
 
37,259
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
261,153
  
  
$
160,220
  
 
$
49,077
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Income tax (benefit) expense from continuing operations for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010 consisted of the following:   
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
1,679
  
 
$
5,411
  
 
$
(3,875
) 

 State
  
 
1,061
  
 
 
1,028
  
 
 
(370
) 

 Foreign
  
 
28,178
  
 
 
26,791
  
 
 
9,379
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Current income tax expense
  
 
30,918
  
 
 
33,230
  
 
 
5,134
  

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
(105,823
) 
 
 
(10,022
) 
 
 
9,695
  

 State
  
 
(8,553
) 
 
 
(255
) 
 
 
0
  

 Foreign
  
 
15,070
  
 
 
1,351
  
 
 
(6,219
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred income tax (benefit) expense
  
 
(99,306
) 
 
 
(8,926
) 
 
 
3,476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total income tax (benefit) expense, net
  
$
(68,388
) 
 
$
24,304
  
 
$
8,610
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Cash paid for Federal, state and foreign income taxes were $24.3 million, $9.6 million and $2.3 million
during the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  83 


Table of Contents
The tax provisions and analysis of effective income tax rates for the years ended
June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 consisted of the following:   
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Provision for Federal income taxes before credits at statutory rate
  
$
91,404
  
 
$
56,077
  
 
$
17,177
  

 State income taxes
  
 
2,124
  
 
 
623
  
 
 
(311
) 

 Difference between Federal statutory rate and foreign effective rate
  
 
(22,240
) 
 
 
(16,688
) 
 
 
(11,893
) 

 Goodwill impairment without tax benefit
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
2,028
  

 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other
  
 
12,444
  
 
 
1,703
  
 
 
4,276
  

 Tax benefit from U.S. production activities
  
 
(3,704
) 
 
 
(1,581
) 
 
 
0
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(124,211
) 
 
 
166
  
 
 
4,767
  

 Change in uncertain tax positions
  
 
(1,937
) 
 
 
7,206
  
 
 
(857
) 

 Deferred tax true-up
  
 
(0
) 
 
 
(3,703
) 
 
 
1,248
  

 Difference between Federal and financial tax accounting for equity compensation
  
 
896
  
 
 
494
  
 
 
1,009
  

 Federal income tax credits
  
 
(22,144
) 
 
 
(18,024
) 
 
 
(9,397
) 

 Other
  
 
(1,020
) 
 
 
(1,969
) 
 
 
563
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax (benefit) expense, net
  
$
(68,388
) 
 
$
24,304
  
 
$
8,610
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Deferred taxes are recorded based upon differences between the financial statement basis and tax basis of
assets and liabilities and available tax loss and credit carryforwards. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, deferred taxes consisted of the following:   












 
  
June 30,
 

 Assets/(Liabilities)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Federal and state tax credits
  
$
171,070
  
 
$
233,070
  

 Deferred interest and loss carryforwards
  
 
24,507
  
 
 
46,938
  

 Inventory costing differences
  
 
7,706
  
 
 
9,504
  

 Capitalized research and development
  
 
113,471
  
 
 
108,733
  

 Amortization of share-based compensation
  
 
22,128
  
 
 
19,204
  

 Pension liability and other
  
 
45,529
  
 
 
35,251
  

 Other assets and other allowances
  
 
36,621
  
 
 
42,735
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets, gross
  
 
421,032
  
 
 
495,435
  

 Less valuation allowance
  
 
(33,076
) 
 
 
(159,378
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance
  
 
387,956
  
 
 
336,057
  

 Unrepatriated foreign earnings
  
 
(86
) 
 
 
(35,409
) 

 Interest expense on Convertible Senior Notes
  
 
(1,853
) 
 
 
(8,034
) 

 Other deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(24,464
) 
 
 
(10,670
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liability, gross
  
 
(26,403
) 
 
 
(54,113
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
  
$
361,553
  
 
$
281,944
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The above amounts are classified as current or long-term in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in accordance
with the asset or liability to which they relate or, when applicable, based on the expected timing of the reversal. The net current deferred tax assets of $56.0 million and $52.4 million are recorded in Other current assets in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The net current deferred tax liabilities of $2.8 million and zero are recorded in Other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
A net non-current deferred tax liability of $0.4 million is recorded in Other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at each of June 30, 2012 and 2011. 
  84 


Table of Contents
The deferred tax assets for the respective periods were assessed for recoverability and,
where applicable, a valuation allowance was recorded to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the future. The net change in the total valuation allowance for the year ended June 30,
2012 was a decrease of $126.3 million. At June 30, 2012, the valuation allowance is comprised of $8.6 million recorded against deferred tax assets for U.S. foreign tax credits; $22.0 million recorded against state deferred tax assets and $2.5
million recorded against foreign loss carryforwards. At June 30, 2011, the valuation allowance is comprised of $125.7 million recorded against deferred tax assets for U.S. foreign tax credits; $31.4 million recorded against state deferred tax
assets and $2.3 million recorded against foreign loss carryforwards.  In assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets,
we regularly consider whether some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized based on the recognition threshold and measurement of a tax position. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation
of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and, if applicable, the
expiration of loss carryforwards and credits in making this assessment.  In the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we achieved
three cumulative years of positive GAAP pre-tax income and taxable income in the U.S. As a result of such earnings trends and based upon our projections for future taxable income of the proper character over the periods in which the deferred
tax assets are recoverable, we believe that it is more likely than not that we will realize the benefits of the net deferred tax assets of $361.6 million at June 30, 2012. Therefore, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2012, we recognized a
non-cash tax benefit of $124.2 million related to a reduction of our deferred tax valuation allowance on certain of our net U.S. deferred tax assets. We have reflected this non-cash tax benefit in the tax provision which has increased net
income for fiscal year 2012. If future operating and business conditions were to differ significantly, we would reassess the ability to realize the net deferred tax assets. If it were to become more likely than not that we would not be able to
realize the deferred tax assets, then all or a portion of the valuation allowance may need to be re-established, which would result in a charge to tax expense.  Although realization is not assured, we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets for which a valuation allowance was determined to be unnecessary, will be realized in
the ordinary course of operations based on the available positive and negative evidence including the utilization of taxable temporary differences, projected income from operations and tax planning strategies that could be implemented, if necessary,
to prevent a carryforward from expiring. The amount of the net deferred tax assets considered realizable, however, could be reduced in the future if projected income is lower than estimated, or if there are differences in the timing or amount of
future reversals of existing taxable or deductible temporary differences.  As of June 30, 2012, the deferred tax assets
for tax credit carryforwards are comprised of U.S. foreign tax credits in the amount of $122.2 million with an expiration period between 2015 through 2020; U.S. Federal and state research and experimentation credits in the amount of $37.7 million
and $22.3 million, respectively. The U.S. Federal research and experimentation credits expire between 2024 through 2031. Of the state research and experimentation credits, $7.0 million expire between 2019 through 2027 and $15.3 million have no
expiration period. In addition, $0.7 million of state enterprise credits have an expiration period of 2013.  As of
June 30, 2012, the deferred tax asset for deferred interest and loss carryforwards are comprised of foreign deferred interest carryforwards of $7.8 million with no expiration period; foreign net operating loss carryforward of $13.9 million with
no expiration period and U.S. Federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $2.8 million with an expiration period of 2014 through 2030.  As of June 30, 2012, we have approximately $629.0 million of unremitted foreign earnings. U.S. deferred taxes have not been provided on all but $0.4 million of these earnings because they are
intended to be permanently reinvested. Such earnings would be subject to U.S. taxation if repatriated to the U.S. The determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with the permanently reinvested cumulative
undistributed earnings is not practicable. 
  85 


Table of Contents
Our operations are subject to ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. Significant
judgment is required in determining our annual tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions. Accordingly, we have established reserves to remove some or all of the tax benefit of any of our tax positions at the time we determine that the
positions become uncertain based upon one of the following: (1) the tax position is not more likely than not to be sustained, (2) the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, but for a lesser amount, or (3) the tax
position is more likely than not to be sustained, but not in the financial period in which the tax position was originally taken. For purposes of evaluating whether or not a tax position is uncertain, (1) we presume the tax position will be
examined by the relevant taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information, (2) the technical merits of a tax position are derived from authorities such as legislation and statutes, regulations, rulings and case law, and
(3) each tax position is evaluated without consideration of the possibility of offset or aggregation with other tax positions taken. We adjust these reserves, including an impact on the related interest and penalties, in light of changing facts
and circumstances, such as the progress of a tax audit.  Changes in the total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits are as
follows:   












 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Balance at July 1
  
$
32,266
  
 
$
20,560
  

 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
3,434
  
 
 
7,702
  

 Increases (decreases) identified during the current year related to prior years
  
 
410
  
 
 
(204
) 

 Reclassification
  
 
0
  
 
 
3,444
  

 Reductions to unrecognized benefits as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations
  
 
(45
) 
 
 
0
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(1,865
) 
 
 
764
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at June 30,
  
$
34,200
  
 
$
32,266
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The unrecognized tax benefits at June 30, 2012 are permanent in nature and, if recognized, would
reduce our effective tax rate with the exception of $1.7 million of share-based compensation in Germany. We periodically revaluate the recognition and measurement threshold of our uncertain tax positions based on new or additional evidence such as
tax authority administrative pronouncements, rulings and court decisions. The ultimate settlement however, may be materially different from the amount accrued. Our significant jurisdictions are Germany and the U.S. The tax years currently
under examination by the German revenue authorities are fiscal years 2005 through 2010. The tax years currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) are fiscal years 2006 and 2007. We have received some
proposed changes by the IRS and although the final resolution of the proposed adjustments is uncertain, we believe that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results
of operations and cash flows. While we expect the amount of unrecognized tax benefits to change, we are unable to quantify the change at this time. It is reasonably possible that $4.7 million of the unrecognized tax benefits in Germany will decrease
within 12 months. This is due to our expectation that the examination for the tax years under audit will be concluded within this time period. The nature of the uncertainties that are expected to be resolved principally relate to share-based
compensation, transfer pricing and various other immaterial issues.  Of our unrecognized tax benefits, $17.7 million is
included in Other non-current liabilities; $4.7 million is included in Income taxes payable and $11.8 million has reduced our Deferred tax assets, long-term, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30, 2012. 
We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in Income tax expense (benefit) in our Consolidated Statements
of Income. As of June 30, 2012, the amount accrued for interest and penalties was $1.1 million. 
  86 


Table of Contents
Note 14 – Shareholders’ Equity and Share-Based Compensation 
Preferred Stock  As of June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had no shares of preferred stock outstanding. We are authorized to issue 5 million shares of preferred stock, $0.01 par value. 
Common Stock  We
have 200 million authorized shares of common stock, $0.01 par value. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, we had 96,132,542 and 95,520,068 shares issued; 28,846,226 and 25,599,817 shares in treasury stock and 67,286,316 and 69,920,251 shares
outstanding (net of treasury stock), respectively.  Share Buy-Back Program 
On October 26, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $200 million of our common stock.
This buyback program allows us to purchase shares of our common stock in accordance with applicable securities laws on the open market, or through privately negotiated transactions, through October 25, 2012. We will determine the timing and the
amount of any repurchases based on an evaluation of market conditions, share price and other factors. We entered into an agreement with an external broker, which provides the structure under which the program may be facilitated. This agreement and
the buyback program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. As of June 30, 2012, we have repurchased 3,246,409 shares under the buyback program.  Share-Based Compensation  On June 30, 2012, we had one
share-based plan with shares available for future grants, the 2012 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the “2012 Plan”), which is described below. The compensation expense for share-based compensation was $17.4 million, $18.0 million and
$21.3 million for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized in our Consolidated Income Statement for share-based compensation arrangements was $5.6 million, $5.2 million and $5.2 million
for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Share-based compensation was slightly lower for the year ended June 30, 2012 compared to the prior fiscal year due to income recognized related to forfeitures in connection
with a grant of performance stock options that vested in fiscal year 2012. Share-based compensation was lower for the year ended June 30, 2011 compared to the prior fiscal year due to income recognized related to forfeitures in connection with
a grant of performance stock options that vested in fiscal year 2011, as well as fewer stock options outstanding in fiscal year 2011. 
2012 Plan  On
December 7, 2011 (the “Effective Date”), our shareholders approved the 2012 Stock Plan, which is effective through December 7, 2021. As of the Effective Date, no further grants may be granted under our former plan, the Amended
and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan, as amended (the “2002 Plan” and together with the 2012 Plan, the “Plans”). There are 4,400,000 shares available for grant under the 2012 Plan. The 2012 Plan provides for two
types of awards: (1) a full value grant, as defined in the 2012 Plan, under which one award shall reduce the shares available for grant under the 2012 Plan by 1.71 shares, and (2) an option or stock appreciation right grant, under which
one award shall reduce the shares available for grant under the 2012 Plan by one share. Shares may be issued as original issuances, treasury shares or a combination of both. Option awards are granted with an exercise price equal to the market price
of our stock on the date of the grant. The option awards generally vest over three to five years of continuous service commencing one year from the date of the grant and expire after ten years. During the year ended June 30, 2012, options to
purchase 141,100 shares of our common stock and 22,731 restricted stock units were granted under the 2012 Plan. As of June 30, 2012, there were 4,236,169 shares available for grant under the 2012 Plan. 
  87 


Table of Contents
2002 Plan  Prior to the Effective Date, we had one share-based compensation plan with shares available for grants, the 2002 Plan. On December 8, 2010, we amended the 2002 Plan to increase the number of shares
available under the 2002 Plan for the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units by 1,100,000 to an aggregate amount not to exceed 7,860,000 shares of our common stock. Under the 2002 Plan,
shares were permitted to be issued as original issuances, treasury shares or a combination of both. Option awards were granted with an exercise price equal to the market price of our stock on the date of the grant. The option awards granted under
the 2002 Plan generally vest over three to five years of continuous service commencing one year from the date of the grant and expire after ten years. During the year ended June 30, 2012, options to purchase 454,630 shares of our common stock
and 645,558 restricted stock units were granted under the 2002 Plan. At June 30, 2012, there were no shares available for grant under the 2002 Plan.  Restricted Stock Awards  A grant of restricted stock involves the
immediate transfer of ownership of a specified number of shares of common stock with a “substantial risk of forfeiture” for a period of at least three years. A participant who receives a restricted stock grant is entitled immediately to
voting, dividend and certain other share ownership rights associated with the underlying shares of common stock. At June 30, 2012, a total of 3,000 shares of restricted stock were outstanding which were granted outside of the 2002 Plan.
 Restricted Stock Units  A grant of restricted stock units involves an agreement by our Company to deliver a specified number of shares of common stock or cash to the participant when the award vests. A participant has no
ownership or voting rights associated with the underlying shares of common stock. Our Board of Directors may, at its discretion, authorize the payment of dividend equivalents on the restricted stock units. At June 30, 2012, a total of 1,942,122
restricted stock units were outstanding, of which 1,940,514 restricted stock units were granted under the Plans and 1,608 were granted outside of the Plans.  Stock Appreciation Rights  Stock appreciation rights allow the
holders to receive a predetermined percentage of the spread, not to exceed 100 percent, between the option price and the fair market value of the shares on the date of exercise. The performance period will not be less than three years. We granted
10,807 stock appreciation rights in fiscal year 2012 under the 2012 Plan. No stock appreciation right or performance unit grants have been made under the Plans during fiscal years 2011 and 2010. At June 30, 2012, a total of 10,807 stock
appreciation rights were outstanding.  1992 Incentive Plan 
We also have options outstanding under our 1992 Incentive Plan. Shares under the 1992 Incentive Plan can be issued as original issuances
or treasury shares or a combination of both. Options to purchase 45,600 shares with expiration dates through November 8, 2012 are outstanding under our 1992 Incentive Plan. The 1992 Incentive Plan was approved by our stockholders and had no
shares available for grant at June 30, 2012. 
  88 


Table of Contents
Fair Value Determination 
The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, which uses the
assumptions noted in the following table.   
















 
    
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
    
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Expected volatility
    
 
48.8 – 66.2
% 
 
 
60.4 – 73.2
% 
 
 
59.9 – 79.0
% 

 Weighted-average volatility
    
 
59.1
% 
 
 
68.8
% 
 
 
68.9
% 

 Expected annual dividend
    
$
0.30
  
 
$
0.10
  
 
 
0
  

 Expected term (in years)
    
 
1.70 – 5.54
  
 
 
1.71 – 3.80
  
 
 
1.86 – 3.98
  

 Risk-free rate
    
 
0.2 – 1.0
% 
 
 
0.5% – 1.7
% 
 
 
0.61% – 2.19
% 
 Groups of option holders (directors, executives and non-executives) that have similar historical behavior
are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected volatilities are based on historical closing prices of our common stock over the expected option term. We use historical data to estimate option exercises and employee terminations within
the valuation model. The expected term of options granted is derived using the option valuation model and represents the estimated period of time from the date of grant that the option is expected to remain outstanding. The risk-free rate for
periods within the contractual life of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The expected annual dividend was only applicable for grants in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal year 2011, as these
were the quarters when dividends were declared. The expected annual dividend was applicable for grants in fiscal year 2012, as dividends were declared in all fiscal year 2012 quarters.  Stock Option Activity  A summary of option activity under our stock
option plans for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and changes during the year are presented below:   




















 
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm (Years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
 

 Outstanding at June 30, 2011
  
 
2,489,998
  
 
$
56.39
  
  
 
6.36
  
  
$
19,270
  

 Granted
  
 
584,923
  
 
 
36.71
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(422,949
) 
 
 
31.52
  
  



  




 Forfeited or expired
  
 
(241,254
) 
 
 
77.35
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding at June 30, 2012
  
 
2,410,718
  
 
 
54.71
  
  
 
6.42
  
  
$
9,359
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Exercisable at June 30, 2012
  
 
1,421,730
  
 
$
66.53
  
  
 
5.04
  
  
$
3,826
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The weighted-average grant-date fair value of options granted during the years ended June 30, 2012,
2011 and 2010 was $14.30, $14.76 and $12.82, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $7.0 million, $6.0 million and $2.4 million, respectively. 
Modification of Certain Stock Option Awards  Prior to fiscal year 2011, certain of the award agreements under the 2002 Plan stated that vested options not exercised were forfeited upon termination of employment for any reason other than death or
disability. However, such award agreements provided that the Compensation and Option Committee of our Board of Directors (the “Compensation and Option Committee”) could extend the time period to exercise vested options 90 days beyond

  89 


Table of Contents

the employment termination date for certain employees. During each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Compensation and Option Committee used this authority. This
action represented a modification of the terms or conditions of an equity award and therefore was accounted for as an exchange of the original award for a new award. Incremental share-based compensation cost for the excess of the fair value of the
new award over the fair value of the original award was immaterial.  Grant of Stock Options with Market Conditions 
We granted 330,470 stock options containing a market condition to employees on March 21, 2008. The options vested on March 21,
2011, which was three years from the date of grant. The value of the options was based on a comparison of our total shareholder return (“TSR”) to a selected peer group of publicly listed multinational companies. TSR was measured as the
annualized increase in the aggregate value of a company’s stock price plus the value of dividends, assumed to be reinvested into shares of the company’s stock at the time of dividend payment. The base price used for the TSR calculation was
$42.19 which was the 20-day trading average from February 6, 2008 through March 6, 2008. The ending price used for the TSR calculation was the 20-day trading average prior to and through March 6, 2011. The grant date fair value of
$4.2 million was calculated using a combination of Monte Carlo simulation and lattice-based models. There was no expense recognized for these awards in fiscal year 2012, since the awards vested in fiscal year 2011. Share-based compensation expense
for this grant was income of $1.5 million and expense of $1.4 million for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. A net benefit was recognized in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 due to forfeitures for employees who
did not meet the service requirements and therefore did not vest in the options. No expense was recognized for these awards in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012.  Restricted Stock Awards  A summary of the status of our nonvested
restricted stock awards as of June 30, 2012 and changes during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 is presented below:   












 
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageGrant-dateFair Value
 

 Nonvested at June 30, 2011
  
 
26,000
  
 
$
42.71
  

 Vested
  
 
(23,000
) 
 
 
33.07
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested at June 30, 2012
  
 
3,000
  
 
$
116.65
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of June 30, 2012, there was $0.1 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested restricted stock-based compensation arrangements granted under the Plans. The weighted average recognition period is less than 0.1 years.  Restricted Stock Units  In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012,
we granted 118,546 restricted stock units with earnings per share (“EPS”) performance conditions, 118,546 restricted stock units with return on invested capital (“ROIC”) performance conditions and 118,546 restricted stock units
with market conditions, under the 2002 Plan. The restricted stock units with EPS performance conditions cliff vest three years from the date of grant based on the achievement of certain cumulative EPS levels from fiscal years 2012 through 2014. The
restricted stock units with ROIC conditions cliff vest three years from the date of grant based on the achievement of a certain ROIC level in fiscal year 2014. The restricted stock units with market conditions cliff vest three years from the date of
grant based on a comparison of our TSR to the TSR of a selected peer group of publicly listed multinational companies. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock units with market conditions of $3.3 million was calculated using a Monte Carlo
simulation model. Compensation expense, for both the restricted stock units with 
  90 


Table of Contents

performance conditions and the restricted stock units with market conditions, is recognized ratably over the three-year vesting period based on the grant date fair value and our assessment of the
probability that the applicable targets will be met, which is reassessed each reporting period.  In the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2011, we granted 191,721 restricted stock units with EPS performance conditions and 191,715 restricted stock units with market conditions, under the 2002 Plan. The restricted stock units with EPS performance conditions cliff vest three
years from the date of grant based on the attainment of a certain EPS level in fiscal year 2013. The restricted stock units with market conditions cliff vest three years from the date of grant based on a comparison of our TSR to the TSR of a
selected peer group of publicly listed multinational companies. The grant date fair value of the restricted stock units with market conditions of $5.2 million was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Compensation expense, for both the
restricted stock units with performance conditions and the restricted stock units with market conditions, is recognized ratably over the three-year vesting period based on the grant date fair value and our assessment of the probability that the
applicable targets will be met, which is reassessed each reporting period.  We granted 380,400 and 133,507 restricted stock
units with performance conditions in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, under the 2002 Plan. The restricted stock units vest three years from the date of grant based on attainment of certain performance targets in
fiscal year 2012 and 2011, respectively. Compensation expense is recognized ratably over the three-year vesting period based on grant date fair value and our assessment of the probability that the performance targets will be met. We have recognized
compensation expense based on our estimate of the probability of achieving the targets. The restricted stock units granted in fiscal year 2009 vested in fiscal year 2012.  In the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 we also granted 312,651, 329,112 and 388,856 time vesting restricted stock units, respectively, without performance or market conditions,
respectively, under the Plans that vest three years from the date of grant, of which 311,500 are to be settled in our common stock and 1,150 are to be settled in cash.  In January and September 2008, we granted 34,608 and 28,344 cash-settled restricted stock units, respectively, outside the 2002 Plan. These restricted stock units are accounted for as liability
awards and are recorded at the fair value at the end of the reporting period in accordance with their vesting schedules. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 1,608 , 9,647 and 19,213 of these restricted stock units were
settled, respectively, at a cost of $0.1 million, $0.3 million and $0.8 million, respectively. At June 30, 2012 and 2011, 1,608 and 3,216 cash-settled restricted stock units were outstanding, respectively. 
A summary of equity classified restricted stock unit activity as of and for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 is presented below:
  








 
  
RestrictedStock Units
 

 Non-vested at June 30, 2011
  
 
1,665,873
  

 Granted
  
 
668,289
  

 Vested
  
 
(246,448
) 

 Forfeited
  
 
(147,200
) 


  
  
  
 

 Non-vested at June 30, 2012
  
 
1,940,514
  


  
  
  
 
 At June 30, 2012 the aggregate intrinsic value of equity classified restricted stock units was $76.6
million. As of June 30, 2012, there was $34.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to equity classified restricted stock unit compensation arrangements. The weighted average recognition period was 1.2 years. 
  91 


Table of Contents
Chief Executive Officer Special Enterprise Value Bonus 
Our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) was granted a special bonus award in November 2007 (the “Special Bonus Award”).
The award was to be settled in cash based on a comparison of Harman’s enterprise value at November 2012 to the enterprise value at the grant date in November 2007. This award was originally classified as a liability in our Consolidated Balance
Sheet. The fair value of the Special Bonus Award was required to be measured each quarter using a Monte Carlo simulation model. 
On September 1, 2009, pursuant to the terms of an amendment to the CEO’s employment letter agreement, the Special Bonus Award
was cancelled and replaced with the right to an annual equity award for fiscal years 2011 through 2013 (the “Annual Equity Grant”). On September 1, 2009, both time-based vesting and performance-based vesting restricted stock units
were granted to the CEO pursuant to the terms of the Annual Equity Grant. The replacement of the Special Bonus Award with the awards granted pursuant to the Annual Equity Grant was accounted for as a modification of an existing award. As a result of
this modification, during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, approximately $0.5 million was reclassified from a liability to Additional paid-in capital in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and $0.5 million was recognized as compensation expense
within SG&A in our Consolidated Statement of Income in the same reporting period and is therefore included in our results for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. 
Note 15 – Restructuring 
Our restructuring program that is designed to improve our global footprint, cost structure, technology portfolio, human
resources and internal processes continues. During fiscal year 2012, we continued to refine and expand on activities launched in prior years and significant new programs were launched to: (i) optimize certain research and development and supply
chain functions; (ii) outsource certain manufacturing capabilities; and (iii) divest or sublease facilities no longer needed to support current operations. In fiscal year 2011, we announced the relocation of certain manufacturing
activities from Washington, Missouri to Mexico and the outsourcing of certain manufacturing activities to third party suppliers. In fiscal year 2010, we announced the relocation of certain manufacturing activities from the United Kingdom to Hungary,
a consolidation and optimization of our manufacturing capabilities in China and the exit of the personal navigation device (“PND”) distribution channel in Germany. 
  92 


Table of Contents
A summary and components of our restructuring initiatives are presented below and include
accruals for new programs as well as revisions to estimates, both increases and decreases, to programs accrued in prior periods:   
























 
  
SeveranceRelatedCosts
 
 
Third PartyContractorTermination Costs
 
 
Facility Closureand OtherRelated Costs
 
 
AssetImpairments(1)

 
 
Total
 

 Liability, June 30, 2009
  
$
67,930
  
 
$
308
  
 
$
8,633
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
76,871
  

 Expense(2)
  
 
10,049
  
 
 
(277
) 
 
 
3,222
  
 
 
4,880
  
 
 
17,874
  

 Accumulated depreciation offset
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,880
) 
 
 
(4,880
) 

 Payments
  
 
(41,186
) 
 
 
(33
) 
 
 
(4,299
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(45,518
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(3,757
) 
 
 
2
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(3,749
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liability, June 30, 2010
  
$
33,036
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
7,562
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
40,598
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expense(2)
  
 
10,541
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
4,542
  
 
 
5,564
  
 
 
20,647
  

 Accumulated depreciation offset
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(5,564
) 
 
 
(5,564
) 

 Payments
  
 
(15,231
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(4,346
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(19,577
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
3,416
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
102
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
3,518
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liability, June 30, 2011
  
$
31,762
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
7,860
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
39,622
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Expense(2)
  
 
(1,008
) 
 
 
315
  
 
 
7,146
  
 
 
2,696
  
 
 
9,149
  

 Accumulated depreciation offset
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,696
) 
 
 
(2,696
) 

 Payments
  
 
(8,434
) 
 
 
(298
) 
 
 
(4,169
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
(12,901
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(2,382
) 
 
 
0
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
(2,380
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liability, June 30, 2012
  
$
19,938
  
 
$
17
  
 
$
10,839
  
 
$
0
  
 
$
30,794
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Credits related to restructuring charges for accelerated depreciation and inventory provisions are recorded against the related assets in Property,
plant & equipment, net or Inventories in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and do not impact the restructuring liability. 


(2) 
 Restructuring expenses noted above are primarily in SG&A in our Consolidated Statements of Income. Asset impairments, which consist of accelerated
depreciation and inventory provisions are primarily in Cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Restructuring liabilities are recorded in Accrued liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Restructuring expenses by reporting business segment are presented below: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Infotainment
  
$
(1,458
) 
 
$
5,949
  
  
$
(3,330
) 

 Lifestyle
  
 
169
  
 
 
7,062
  
  
 
13,689
  

 Professional
  
 
8,459
  
 
 
1,835
  
  
 
2,191
  

 Other
  
 
(717
) 
 
 
237
  
  
 
444
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
6,453
  
 
 
15,083
  
  
 
12,994
  

 Asset impairments
  
 
2,696
  
 
 
5,564
  
  
 
4,880
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
9,149
  
 
$
20,647
  
  
$
17,874
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  93 


Table of Contents
Note 16 – Retirement Benefits 
Plan Descriptions  Retirement savings plan  We provide the Harman International Industries
Incorporated, Retirement Savings Plan (the “Savings Plan”) for certain employees in the United States. Under the Savings Plan, employees may contribute up to 50 percent of their pretax compensation subject to certain limitations. Each
business unit will make a safe harbor non-elective contribution in an amount equal to three percent of a participant’s eligible contribution. Each business unit may make a matching contribution of up to three percent (50 percent on the first
six percent of an employee’s tax-deferred contribution) and, upon approval of our Board of Directors, a profit sharing contribution. Matching and profit sharing contributions vest at a rate of 25 percent for each year of service with the
employer, beginning with the second year of service.  Effective January 1, 2009, we suspended the matching and safe
harbor non-elective contributions for these plans. Effective January 1, 2010, the employer matching contribution and the safe harbor non-elective contribution were reinstated. Approval for the profit sharing contribution is requested from our
Board of Directors at the end of each fiscal year. Management eliminated the profit sharing contribution as of December 28, 2010. No amount was accrued for the profit sharing contribution for each of the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012,
2011 and 2010. Expenses related to the Savings Plan for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, were $8.0 million, $7.3 million and $3.7 million, respectively. 
Pension benefits  We provide defined pension benefits to certain eligible employees. The measurement date used for determining pension benefits is the last day of our fiscal year, June 30th. We have certain business units in Europe that maintain defined
benefit pension plans for many of our current and former employees. The coverage provided and the extent to which the retirees’ share in the cost of the program vary by business unit. Generally, plan benefits are based on age, years of service
and average compensation during the final years of service. In the United States, we have a SERP that provides retirement, death and termination benefits, as defined in the SERP, to certain key executives designated by our Board of Directors. The
majority of our defined benefit plans do not have contractual or statutory provisions which specify minimum funding requirements. We are in compliance with all existing contractual obligations and statutory provisions. 
During fiscal year 2013, we expect to contribute amounts to the defined benefit pension plans necessary to cover required disbursements.
The benefits that we expect to pay in each fiscal year from 2013 to 2017 are $8.9 million, $8.6 million, $9.0 million, $9.5 million and $11.4 million, respectively. The aggregate benefits we expect to pay in the five fiscal years from 2018 to 2022
are $52.8 million.  Plan Assets  For all but one of our Company’s plans, contributions are made from our current operating funds as required in the year of payout. For one foreign plan, we made annual contributions into a fund
managed by a trustee who invests such funds, administers the plan and makes payouts to eligible employees as required.  Our
primary objective in investing plan assets for this foreign plan is to achieve returns sufficient to meet future benefit obligations with minimal risk and to time the maturities of such investments to meet annual payout needs. Given this, fund
assets are invested in a unitized publically traded fund which invests 100 percent of such investments in government bonds. For purposes of fair value, this investment has been determined to meet the characteristics of a Level 1 investment as quoted
prices in an active market exist for these assets. As of June 30, 2012, 100 percent of these assets are invested in this unitized fund. 
  94 


Table of Contents
Summary Plan Results 
The following is a reconciliation of the benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the plans as well as the amounts recognized
in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011:   












 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Change in benefit obligation:
  



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
156,285
  
 
$
144,331
  

 Benefit obligation of plans not previously reported(1)
  
 
3,987
  
 
 
7,330
  

 Service cost
  
 
1,635
  
 
 
3,292
  

 Interest cost
  
 
8,106
  
 
 
7,702
  

 Actuarial loss/(gain)
  
 
31,484
  
 
 
(10,286
) 

 Effects of settlements and curtailments
  
 
(921
) 
 
 
0
  

 Plan amendments
  
 
216
  
 
 
95
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(7,817
) 
 
 
(7,657
) 

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(9,726
) 
 
 
11,478
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
$
183,249
  
 
$
156,285
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets:
  



 




 Fair value of assets at beginning of year
  
$
5,258
  
 
$
0
  

 Fair value of assets for plans not previously reported(1)
  
 
0
  
 
 
4,507
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
1,571
  
 
 
139
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
9,049
  
 
 
7,932
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(7,817
) 
 
 
(7,657
) 

 Settlement
  
 
(921
) 
 
 
0
  

 Foreign currency translation
  
 
(129
) 
 
 
337
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of assets at end of year
  
$
7,011
  
 
$
5,258
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Reconciliation of funded status:
  



 




 Funded status
  
$
(176,238
) 
 
$
(151,027
) 

 Unrecognized prior service cost
  
 
8,301
  
 
 
8,672
  

 Unrecognized net loss
  
 
49,561
  
 
 
19,790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accrued pension cost
  
$
(118,376
) 
 
$
(122,565
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Non-current assets
  
$
704
  
 
$
0
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
(8,843
) 
 
 
(8,913
) 

 Other non-current liabilities
  
 
(168,099
) 
 
 
(142,114
) 

 AOCI
  
 
57,862
  
 
 
28,462
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accrued pension cost
  
$
(118,376
) 
 
$
(122,565
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Certain foreign defined benefit plans were not disclosed in prior years based on the immateriality of amounts involved in these plans. The above
disclosures for fiscal years 2012 and 2011 include amounts recorded for these plans as adjustments to the balances in the current year.  Amounts recognized in AOCI for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 are presented below:   












 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 

 Amounts recorded in AOCI:
  



 




 Prior service cost
  
$
8,301
  
 
$
8,672
  

 Net actuarial loss
  
 
49,561
  
 
 
19,790
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in AOCI, before taxes
  
 
57,862
  
 
 
28,462
  

 Income tax benefit
  
 
(19,415
) 
 
 
(10,159
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in AOCI, net of income taxes
  
$
38,447
  
 
$
18,303
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  95 


Table of Contents
The estimated amount that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost in
fiscal year 2013 is as follows:   








 Amounts expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost
  




 Recognized net actuarial loss
  
$
3,872
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
1,169
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,041
  


  
  
  
 
 A comparison of plans’ assets with plans’ projected benefit and accumulated benefit obligations
as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 is presented below:   




























  
  
Obligations Exceed Plan AssetsYear Ended June 30,
 
  
Plan Assets Exceed ObligationsYear Ended June 30,
 
  
Total All Plans YearEnded June 30,
 

 
  
        2012        

 
  
        2011        

 
  
    2012    
 
  
    2011    
 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 

 Plans where:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
176,942
  
  
$
156,285
  
  
$
6,307
  
  
$
0
  
  
$
183,249
  
  
$
156,285
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
165,283
  
  
 
145,626
  
  
 
6,307
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
171,590
  
  
 
145,626
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
0
  
  
 
5,258
  
  
 
7,011
  
  
 
0
  
  
 
7,011
  
  
 
5,258
  
 The components of net periodic benefit costs for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010
are presented below:   
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Components of net periodic benefit cost:
  



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
1,635
  
 
$
3,292
  
 
$
2,165
  

 Interest cost
  
 
8,106
  
 
 
7,702
  
 
 
7,585
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(238
) 
 
 
(221
) 
 
 
0
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
1,418
  
 
 
1,502
  
 
 
1,407
  

 Amortization of net loss
  
 
1,793
  
 
 
1,899
  
 
 
1,122
  

 Effect of settlements and curtailments
  
 
83
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
1,452
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
$
12,797
  
 
$
14,174
  
 
$
13,731
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Plan Assumptions  The assumptions used to determine our benefit obligations and net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs are presented below: 
 
















 
 
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Assumptions:
 



 



 




 Weighted average rates used to determine benefit obligations atJune 30:
 



 



 




 Range of discount rates for pension plans
 
 
0.6% – 5.0%
  
 
 
4.7% – 5.9
% 
 
 
4.5% – 5.0%
  

 Range of rates of compensation increase for pension plans
 
 
0.0% – 4.0%
  
 
 
2.5% – 4.0
% 
 
 
2.5% – 4.0%
  

 Weighted average rates used to determine net periodic benefit cost at June 30:
 



 



 




 Range of discount rates for pension plans
 
 
4.7% – 5.9%
  
 
 
4.1% – 5.6
% 
 
 
4.5% – 6.17%
  

 Range of rates of compensation increase for pension plans
 
 
0.0% – 4.0%
  
 
 
2.5% – 4.0
% 
 
 
2.5% – 4.0%
  

  96 


Table of Contents
As of June 30, 2010 a globally consistent method of setting the discount rate was
adopted, where yield curves are developed from yields on actual Aa-rated corporate bonds across the full maturity spectrum, referring to ratings provided by Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, Fitch, and Dominion Bond Rating Service,
supplemented with additional yield information where needed. We discount the expected future benefit payments of each plan using the appropriate yield curve based on the currency of payment of benefits, to develop a single-point discount rate
matching each plan’s payout structure. Prior to June 30, 2010, a similar approach was followed, using yields for German federal bonds and Euro denominated bonds provided by Deutsche Bundesbank, and spot yields on corporate bonds published
in the Citigroup Pension Liability Index. 
Note 17 – Business Segment Data 
Effective July 1, 2011, we revised our business segments in order to better align them with our strategic approach
to the markets and customers we serve. While our Professional segment was largely unaffected, we reorganized our Automotive and Consumer segments and created two new segments, Infotainment and Lifestyle. The Infotainment segment includes our
infotainment business, which was previously reported in our Automotive segment, and, Aha, a business we acquired in September 2010, which was previously reported in our Other segment. Our Lifestyle segment includes our automotive audio business,
which was previously reported in our Automotive segment, our Consumer segment, which was previously reported as a standalone segment, and our luxury home audio business, which was previously reported in our Professional segment. Our Professional
segment includes our Professional segment, as previously reported, excluding our luxury home audio business.  Prior period
segment amounts throughout the consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to the new segment structure. The reclassification of historical business segment information had no impact on our basic financial statements. 
The accounting principles applied at the operating segment level in determining income from operations are the same as those applied at
the consolidated financial statement level. While revenues are specifically identified with our Infotainment segment and the automotive audio portion of our Lifestyle segment, costs, expenses and assets for these businesses are allocated based on
relative revenues or other measures of activity that management believes are reasonable. Goodwill was allocated to our Infotainment segment and the automotive audio portion of our Lifestyle segment based on the relative fair value of the components
of our reporting units that were affected by our change in segments. Refer to Note 8 – Goodwill for more information. The effects of the change in segments on the Professional segment and the home audio portion of our Lifestyle segment
were immaterial.  We design, manufacture and market high-quality, high fidelity audio products and electronic systems for the
infotainment, automotive audio, home audio and professional markets. Our chief operating decision maker evaluates performance and allocates resources based on net sales, operating income and working capital in each of the reporting segments.
 Infotainment 
Our Infotainment segment designs, manufactures and markets infotainment systems for vehicle applications to be installed primarily as
original equipment by automotive manufacturers.  Lifestyle  Our Lifestyle segment designs, manufactures and markets automotive audio systems for vehicle applications to be installed primarily as original equipment by automotive manufacturers and a wide range of
mid- to high-end audio and consumer electronics for home, multimedia and mobile applications. Our Lifestyle audio products feature some of the world’s most recognized audio brands, including JBL, AKG, Harman/Kardon, Infinity, Mark Levinson,
Revel, Logic 7, Lexicon and Selenium. 
  97 


Table of Contents
Professional  Our Professional segment designs, manufactures and markets an extensive range of loudspeakers, power amplifiers, digital signal processors, microphones, headphones and mixing consoles used by audio
professionals in concert halls, stadiums, airports, houses of worship and other public spaces. We also provide high-quality products to the sound reinforcement, music instrument support and broadcast and recording segments of the professional audio
market. We offer complete systems solutions for professional installations and users around the world. Our Professional products are marketed globally under brand names including JBL Professional, AKG, Crown, Soundcraft, Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx,
BSS, Selenium and Studer.  Other  Our Other segment includes compensation, benefits and occupancy costs for corporate employees, net of reporting segment allocations, expenses associated with new technology innovation and our corporate
brand identity campaign. 
  98 


Table of Contents
The following table presents Net sales, Operating income, Assets, Goodwill, Capital
expenditures and Depreciation and amortization by each reporting segment from continuing operations:   
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Net sales:
  



 



 




 Infotainment
  
$
2,401,562
  
 
$
2,088,599
  
 
$
1,836,194
  

 Lifestyle
  
 
1,330,798
  
 
 
1,087,270
  
 
 
1,023,532
  

 Professional
  
 
630,731
  
 
 
595,687
  
 
 
504,029
  

 Other
  
 
987
  
 
 
789
  
 
 
673
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,364,078
  
 
$
3,772,345
  
 
$
3,364,428
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income:
  



 



 




 Infotainment
  
$
180,529
  
 
$
77,384
  
 
$
(4,885
) 

 Lifestyle
  
 
141,899
  
 
 
101,883
  
 
 
92,567
  

 Professional
  
 
82,588
  
 
 
90,668
  
 
 
70,584
  

 Other
  
 
(104,770
) 
 
 
(79,884
) 
 
 
(72,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
300,246
  
 
$
190,051
  
 
$
85,555
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
9,483
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
300,246
  
 
$
190,051
  
 
$
95,038
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Assets:
  



 



 




 Infotainment
  
$
962,332
  
 
$
1,149,494
  
 




 Lifestyle
  
 
1,071,491
  
 
 
992,796
  
 




 Professional
  
 
432,104
  
 
 
407,412
  
 




 Other
  
 
703,537
  
 
 
508,793
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
$
3,169,464
  
 
$
3,058,495
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Goodwill:
  



 



 




 Infotainment
  
$
5,856
  
 
$
8,069
  
 




 Lifestyle
  
 
109,945
  
 
 
39,167
  
 




 Professional
  
 
65,010
  
 
 
72,121
  
 




 Other
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Total
  
$
180,811
  
 
$
119,357
  
 





  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Capital expenditures:
  



 



 




 Infotainment
  
$
66,050
  
 
$
61,712
  
 
$
40,985
  

 Lifestyle
  
 
23,743
  
 
 
18,084
  
 
 
2,724
  

 Professional
  
 
10,910
  
 
 
14,645
  
 
 
11,060
  

 Other
  
 
11,833
  
 
 
13,916
  
 
 
5,264
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
112,536
  
 
$
108,357
  
 
$
60,033
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
167
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
112,536
  
 
$
108,357
  
 
$
60,200
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Depreciation and amortization:
  



 



 




 Infotainment
  
$
66,130
  
 
$
70,796
  
 
$
78,245
  

 Lifestyle
  
 
32,890
  
 
 
30,773
  
 
 
40,640
  

 Professional
  
 
14,149
  
 
 
16,432
  
 
 
17,828
  

 Other
  
 
9,056
  
 
 
5,263
  
 
 
3,233
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
122,225
  
 
$
123,264
  
 
$
139,946
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0
  
 
 
0
  
 
 
911
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
122,225
  
 
$
123,264
  
 
$
140,857
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  99 


Table of Contents
During fiscal years 2012 and 2011 we did not record any goodwill impairment charges. During
the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $7.4 million and $4.9 million in our Infotainment segment and a reporting unit within our Lifestyle segment, respectively. Refer to Note 8 – Goodwill
for more information.  The following table presents Net sales and long-lived assets and net assets by geographic area as
of and for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Net sales are attributable to geographic areas based upon the location of the customer.   
















 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Net sales:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
966,955
  
  
$
703,772
  
  
$
678,384
  

 Germany
  
 
1,662,432
  
  
 
1,616,198
  
  
 
1,380,246
  

 Other Europe
  
 
916,813
  
  
 
780,342
  
  
 
623,219
  

 Other
  
 
817,878
  
  
 
672,033
  
  
 
682,579
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,364,078
  
  
$
3,772,345
  
  
$
3,364,428
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-lived assets:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
162,422
  
  
$
134,734
  
  




 Germany
  
 
149,867
  
  
 
192,119
  
  




 Other Europe
  
 
102,071
  
  
 
133,134
  
  




 Other
  
 
44,752
  
  
 
32,010
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
459,112
  
  
$
491,997
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Net Assets
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
126,081
  
  
$
12,777
  
  




 Germany
  
 
647,114
  
  
 
700,722
  
  




 Other Europe
  
 
605,177
  
  
 
598,853
  
  




 Other
  
 
151,239
  
  
 
111,306
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Total
  
$
1,529,611
  
  
$
1,423,658
  
  





  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




Note 18 – Commitments and Contingencies 
At June 30, 2012, we were subject to legal claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business,
including the matters described below. The outcome of these legal actions cannot be predicted with certainty; however, management, based upon advice from legal counsel, believes such actions are either without merit or will not have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities
Litigation  On October 1, 2007, a purported class action lawsuit was filed by Cheolan Kim (the “Kim
Plaintiff”) against Harman and certain of our officers in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (the “Court”) seeking compensatory damages and costs on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock
between April 26, 2007 and September 24, 2007 (the “Class Period”). The original complaint alleged claims for violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange
Act”) and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder.  The complaint alleged that the defendants omitted to disclose material
adverse facts about Harman’s financial condition and business prospects. The complaint contended that had these facts not been concealed at the time the merger agreement with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Goldman Sachs Capital
Partners was entered into, there would not have been a merger agreement, or it would have been at a much lower price, and the 
  100



Table of Contents

price of our common stock therefore would not have been artificially inflated during the Class Period. The Kim Plaintiff alleged that, following the reports that the proposed merger was not
going to be completed, the price of our common stock declined, causing the plaintiff class significant losses.  On
November 30, 2007, the Boca Raton General Employees’ Pension Plan filed a purported class action lawsuit against Harman and certain of our officers in the Court seeking compensatory damages and costs on behalf of all persons who purchased
our common stock between April 26, 2007 and September 24, 2007. The allegations in the Boca Raton complaint are essentially identical to the allegations in the original Kim complaint, and like the original Kim complaint, the Boca
Raton complaint alleges claims for violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder.  On January 16, 2008, the Kim Plaintiff filed an amended complaint. The amended complaint, which extended the Class Period through January 11, 2008, contended that, in addition to the
violations alleged in the original complaint, Harman also violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder by “knowingly failing to disclose “significant problems” relating to its portable
navigation device sales forecasts, production, pricing, and inventory” prior to January 14, 2008. The amended complaint claimed that when “Defendants revealed for the first time on January 14, 2008 that shifts in PND sales
would adversely impact earnings per share by more than $1.00 per share in fiscal 2008,” that led to a further decline in our share value and additional losses to the plaintiff class. 
On February 15, 2008, the Court ordered the consolidation of the Kim action with the Boca Raton action, the administrative closing
of the Boca Raton action, and designated the short caption of the consolidated action as In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation, civil action no. 1:07-cv-01757 (RWR). That same day, the Court appointed Arkansas Public
Retirement System as lead plaintiff (“Lead Plaintiff”) and approved the law firm Cohen, Milstein, Hausfeld and Toll, P.L.L.C. to serve as lead counsel.  On March 24, 2008, the Court ordered, for pretrial management purposes only, the consolidation of Patrick Russell v. Harman International Industries, Incorporated, et al. with In re Harman
International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation.  On May 2, 2008, Lead Plaintiff filed a consolidated class action
complaint (the “Consolidated Complaint”). The Consolidated Complaint, which extends the Class Period through February 5, 2008, contends that Harman and certain of our officers and directors violated Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, by issuing false and misleading disclosures regarding our financial condition in fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year 2008. In particular, the Consolidated Complaint alleges that defendants
knowingly or recklessly failed to disclose material adverse facts about MyGIG radios, PNDs and our capital expenditures. The Consolidated Complaint alleges that when Harman’s true financial condition became known to the market, the price
of our common stock declined significantly, causing losses to the plaintiff class.  On July 3, 2008, defendants moved to
dismiss the Consolidated Complaint in its entirety. Lead Plaintiff opposed the defendants’ motion to dismiss on September 2, 2008, and defendants filed a reply in further support of their motion to dismiss on October 2,
2008. The motion is now fully briefed. As of June 30, 2012, the case remained open with no new developments.  Patrick Russell
v. Harman International Industries, Incorporated, et al.  Patrick Russell (the “Russell Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint on December 7, 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia and an amended purported putative class action complaint on June 2, 2008 against Harman and certain of our officers and directors alleging
violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and seeking, on behalf of all participants in and beneficiaries of the Savings Plan, compensatory damages for losses to the Savings Plan as well as injunctive
relief, imposition of a constructive trust, restitution, and other monetary relief. The amended complaint alleges that from April 26, 2007 
  101



Table of Contents

to the present defendants failed to prudently and loyally manage the Savings Plan’s assets, thereby breaching their fiduciary duties in violation of ERISA by causing the Savings Plan to
invest in our common stock notwithstanding that the stock allegedly was “no longer a prudent investment for the Participants’ retirement savings.” The amended complaint further claims that, during the Class Period, defendants
failed to monitor the Savings Plan fiduciaries, failed to provide the Savings Plan fiduciaries with, and to disclose to Savings Plan participants, adverse facts regarding Harman and our businesses and prospects. The Russell Plaintiff also
contends that defendants breached their duties to avoid conflicts of interest and to serve the interests of participants in and beneficiaries of the Savings Plan with undivided loyalty. As a result of these alleged fiduciary breaches, the
amended complaint asserts that the Savings Plan has “suffered substantial losses, resulting in the depletion of millions of dollars of the retirement savings and anticipated retirement income of the Savings Plan’s Participants.”
 On March 24, 2008, the Court ordered, for pretrial management purposes only, the consolidation of Patrick Russell v.
Harman International Industries, Incorporated, et al. with In re Harman International Industries, Inc. Securities Litigation.  Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint in its entirety on August 5, 2008. The Russell Plaintiff opposed the defendants’ motion to dismiss on September 19, 2008, and defendants filed
a reply in further support of their motion to dismiss on October 20, 2008. The motion is now fully briefed. As of June 30, 2012, the case remained open with no new developments. 
Infotainment Supply Arrangements  We have arrangements with our infotainment customers to provide products that meet predetermined technical specifications and delivery dates. In the event that we do not satisfy the performance
obligations under these arrangements, we may be required to indemnify the customer. We accrue for any loss that we expect to incur under these arrangements when that loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. For the years ended
June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we incurred $4.6 million, $5.8 million and $11.7 million, respectively, of costs related to delayed delivery of product to an infotainment customer. An inability to meet performance obligations on infotainment
platforms to be delivered in future periods could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
Note 19 – Investment in Joint Venture 
In October 2005, we formed Harman Navis Inc. (“Harman Navis”), a joint venture located in Korea, to engage in
the design and development of navigation systems for the Asian markets. We evaluated the joint venture agreement and determined that the newly formed joint venture was a variable interest entity requiring consolidation under the appropriate
accounting guidance. We owned a 50 percent equity interest in the joint venture through December 2009. We were not obligated to fund any joint venture losses beyond our investment. 
In fiscal year 2009, we entered into a restructuring agreement which amended the Harman Navis joint venture agreement and other related
agreements which resulted in the sale of the Harman Navis joint venture to our 50 percent equity partner (“Navis”) over a period of 26 months. As a result of the restructuring agreement, we and Navis agreed to have Navis purchase our
interest in the joint venture for an aggregate price of $20 million, payable in three installments through June 2011. The first of these amounts was due on December 15, 2009 and, on such date, Navis agreed to make a payment in the amount of $10
million in exchange for 50 percent of our equity interest. However, we agreed to pay a guaranteed royalty of $29 million over a three year period in lieu of future royalty payments, of which $10 million was payable by us on December 15, 2009,
and as a result no cash was exchanged in this transaction since both the amount payable from us and receivable from Navis were equal and offsetting.  As a result of this transaction, we determined that we were no longer the primary beneficiary of the joint venture and therefore deconsolidated the joint venture in December 2009 and recorded an
investment of $2.8 
  102



Table of Contents

million in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, and at that time, we began to account for it under the equity method. Our remaining 25 percent equity interest was measured at fair value using a
weighted application of the cost, market and income valuation techniques. The deconsolidation of Harman Navis resulted in an overall loss of $13.1 million in our Infotainment segment and is included in our Consolidated Statement of Income as Loss on
deconsolidation of variable interest entity for the year ended June 30, 2010. The loss resulted primarily from the difference between the fair value of the consideration received for the disposal of our equity interest and the net asset value
of the joint venture that was deconsolidated.  In February 2011, Navis redeemed 15 percent of our equity interest in
consideration for a payment of $6.0 million. The second installment of the guaranteed royalty of $6.0 million was also payable by us. Both the amount receivable from Navis and payable from us were equal and offsetting. This reduced our ownership
interest to 10 percent, and we subsequently accounted for Navis under the cost method.  In June 2011, Navis redeemed the
remaining 10 percent of our equity interest in consideration for a payment of $4.0 million. At that time, the third installment of the guaranteed royalty of $4.0 million was also payable by us. Both the amount receivable from Navis and payable from
us were equal and offsetting. We wrote off our remaining investment of $2.1 million which was recorded in SG&A in our Consolidated Statement of Income. As of June 30, 2011, we no longer had an ownership interest in Navis. 
Note 20 – Related Party Transactions 
In December 2009, we entered into a three-year agreement for engineering and software development services with Neusoft
Corporation (“Neusoft”), a Shanghai exchange listed technology solutions provider. A member of our Board of Directors is the Chairman and CEO of Neusoft.  On April 20, 2010, our former subsidiary, IS entered into an asset purchase and business transfer agreement (the “Asset Purchase Agreement”) with Neusoft Technology Solutions GmbH
(“Neusoft Technology”), which is a subsidiary of Neusoft, for the sale of certain tangible assets located at IS’s facility in Hamburg, Germany. This transaction closed on June 1, 2010. As part of the Asset Purchase Agreement, IS
and Neusoft Technology entered into a five-year agreement for engineering and software development services related to IS’s vehicle navigation business (the “Services Agreement”). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, IS
transferred at closing certain tangible assets and employment relationships to Neusoft Technology and received consideration of €6 million. Our subsidiary, Harman Becker Automotive Systems GmbH (“HBAS”) and Neusoft Europe AG, a
subsidiary of Neusoft, are guarantors under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement and the Services Agreement. IS was merged into HBAS in fiscal year 2011. During the years ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 we incurred total expenses of $32.6
million and $24.9 million, respectively, for engineering and software development services with Neusoft Technology and Neusoft. We did not incur any expense with Neusoft Technology and Neusoft in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. 
Note 21 – Significant Customers 
Presented below are the percentages of net sales to and net accounts receivable due from customers who represent ten
percent or more of our net sales or net accounts receivable from continuing operations for the periods presented:   




















 
  
Net Sales
 
 
AccountsReceivable, Net
 

 
  
Year Ended June 30,
 
 
June 30,
 

 
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2012
 
 
2011
 

 BMW
  
 
19
% 
 
 
21
% 
 
 
13
% 
 
 
17
% 

 Audi/Volkswagen
  
 
14
% 
 
 
15
% 
 
 
11
% 
 
 
9
% 

 Other customers
  
 
67
% 
 
 
64
% 
 
 
76
% 
 
 
74
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 
 
 
100
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  103



Table of Contents
We anticipate that BMW and Audi/Volkswagen will continue to account for a significant
portion of our net sales and net accounts receivable for the foreseeable future. Our customers are not obligated to any long-term purchase of our products. 
Note 22 – Sale of Intellectual Property 
Effective February 15, 2011, we entered into an agreement with a third party pursuant to which we monetized
certain intellectual property rights. Income of $0.3 million and $16.5 million was recognized in connection with this transaction in our Infotainment segment and is included in the Consolidated Statement of Income for the fiscal years ended
June 30, 2012 and 2011, respectively, under the line item Sale of intellectual property. 
Note 23 – Quarterly Summary of Operations (unaudited) 
The following is a summary of operations by quarter for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010: 
 
























 
  
Three Months Ended
 
  
 
 

 
  
September 30
 
 
December 31
 
  
March 31
 
  
June 30
 
  
Total
 

 Fiscal Year 2012
  



 



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
1,050,603
  
 
$
1,127,029
  
  
$
1,095,675
  
  
$
1,090,771
  
  
$
4,364,078
  

 Gross profit
  
 
287,642
  
 
 
305,539
  
  
 
292,630
  
  
 
298,335
  
  
 
1,184,146
  

 Net income
  
 
48,367
  
 
 
59,255
  
  
 
172,656
  
  
 
49,263
  
  
 
329,541
  

 Earnings per share:
  



 



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
0.68
  
 
 
0.83
  
  
 
2.41
  
  
 
0.69
  
  
 
4.62
  

 Diluted
  
 
0.67
  
 
 
0.82
  
  
 
2.38
  
  
 
0.69
  
  
 
4.57
  

 Fiscal Year 2011
  



 



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
836,946
  
 
$
956,081
  
  
$
948,196
  
  
$
1,031,122
  
  
$
3,772,345
  

 Gross profit
  
 
224,571
  
 
 
268,740
  
  
 
248,825
  
  
 
245,214
  
  
 
987,350
  

 Net income
  
 
27,388
  
 
 
53,052
  
  
 
36,600
  
  
 
18,876
  
  
 
135,916
  

 Earnings per share:
  



 



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
0.39
  
 
 
0.75
  
  
 
0.51
  
  
 
0.27
  
  
 
1.91
  

 Diluted
  
 
0.39
  
 
 
0.74
  
  
 
0.51
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
1.90
  

 Fiscal Year 2010
  



 



  



  



  




 Net sales
  
$
748,428
  
 
$
928,273
  
  
$
837,011
  
  
$
850,716
  
  
$
3,364,428
  

 Gross profit
  
 
192,227
  
 
 
251,635
  
  
 
217,632
  
  
 
223,664
  
  
 
885,158
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated, net of income
taxes
  
 
(11,576
) 
 
 
13,396
  
  
 
14,921
  
  
 
18,437
  
  
 
35,178
  

 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes
  
 
2,103
  
 
 
2,703
  
  
 
3,339
  
  
 
115,446
  
  
 
123,591
  

 Net (loss) income
  
 
(9,473
) 
 
 
16,099
  
  
 
18,260
  
  
 
133,883
  
  
 
158,769
  

 (Loss) earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Harman International Industries, Incorporated, net of income
taxes:
  



 



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
(0.17
) 
 
 
0.19
  
  
 
0.21
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
0.50
  

 Diluted
  
 
(0.17
) 
 
 
0.19
  
  
 
0.21
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
0.50
  

 Earnings per share from discontinued operations, net of income taxes:
  



 



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
0.03
  
 
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.05
  
  
 
1.64
  
  
 
1.76
  

 Diluted
  
 
0.03
  
 
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.05
  
  
 
1.63
  
  
 
1.75
  

 (Loss) earnings per share:
  



 



  



  



  




 Basic
  
 
(0.14
) 
 
 
0.23
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
1.90
  
  
 
2.26
  

 Diluted
  
 
(0.14
) 
 
 
0.23
  
  
 
0.26
  
  
 
1.89
  
  
 
2.25
  

  104



Table of Contents
Note 24 – Subsequent Events 
Amendment to Revolving Credit Facility  Effective July 2, 2012, we and Harman KG, entered into the Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Second Amendment”), with a group of banks. The Second Amendment amends the Credit
Agreement by, among other things: (a) allowing us and our subsidiaries to enter into certain internal legal entity restructuring transactions subject in certain circumstances to various conditions, (b) in connection with such internal
legal entity restructuring transactions, providing for the release of certain security interests created by the Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, and (c) making certain other amendments to facilitate the foregoing. 
Dividend Declaration  On August 10, 2012, we declared a cash dividend of $0.15 per share for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The quarterly dividend will be paid on September 4, 2012 to each stockholder of
record as of the close of business on August 20, 2012. Shares Repurchased 
Between July 1, 2012 through August 10, 20102, we repurchased 129,966 shares of our common stock at a total cost of $4.8 million
in connection with our share buyback program. 
  105



Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures  Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are
effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in
Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms. We note that the design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in
achieving our stated goals under all potential future conditions.  Change in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting: 
There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) as promulgated by
the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during our most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.   


Item 9B.
Other Information.  None.

  106



Table of Contents
Part III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.  The information required by Item 10 of Part III is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
 


Item 11.
Executive Compensation. 
The information required by Item 11 of Part III is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
The information required by Item 12 of Part III is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders.   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.  The information required by Item 13 of Part III is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services.  The information required by Item 14 of Part III is incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
  107



Table of Contents
Part IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  We will furnish you, without charge, a copy of any exhibit upon written request. Written requests to obtain any exhibit should be sent to Harman’s Secretary at 400 Atlantic Street, 15th Floor, Stamford, CT 06901. 
The following consolidated financial statements are filed as part of this report under “Part II, Item 8 – Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data”:   








 
  
Page
 

 Financial Statements:
  




 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
  
 
49
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
  
 
50
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
51
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2012 and 2011
  
 
52
  

 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010
  
 
53
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and
2010
  
 
54
  

 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended 2012, 2011
 and 2010
  
 
55
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
56
  




 Financial Statement Schedules:
  




 Schedule II—Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 
  
 
116
  

 (Schedules I, III, IV and V are not applicable and have therefore been omitted.)
  



 Exhibit Index to 10-K   






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




3.1
  
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Harman International Industries, Incorporated, as amended. (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
December 31, 2003 and hereby incorporated by reference)




3.2
  
By-Laws of Harman International Industries, Incorporated, as amended, dated February 6, 2008. (filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
December 31, 2003 and hereby incorporated by reference)




3.3
  
Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 12, 2011. (Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 13, 2011 and hereby incorporated by reference).




3.4
  
By-Laws of Harman International Industries, Incorporated, as amended, dated December 7, 2011. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
December 13, 2011 and hereby incorporated by reference).




4.1
  
Indenture, related to the 1.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012, dated as of October 23, 2007, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Wells Fargo Bank,
National Association, as trustee (including the form of 1.25% Convertible Senior Note due 2012). (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on October 25, 2007 and hereby incorporated by
reference)




4.2
  
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 12, 2010, to the Indenture dated as of October 23, 2007, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Wells Fargo
Bank, National Association (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on January 13, 2010 and hereby incorporated by reference)
  108



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




  4.3
  
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 23, 2007, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated, KKR I-H Limited, GS Capital Partners VI Fund L.P., GS
Capital Partners VI Parallel, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI Offshore Fund, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI GmbH & Co. KG, Citibank, N.A. and HSBC USA Inc. (filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
October 25, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference).




  4.4
  
First Amendment to Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 21, 2011, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated, KKR I-H Limited, GS Capital
Partners VI Fund L.P., GS Capital Partners VI Parallel, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI Offshore Fund, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI GmbH & Co. KG, Citibank, N.A. and HSBC USA Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the Commission on October 25, 2011 and hereby incorporated by reference).




10.1
  
Note Purchase Agreement, dated October 22, 2007, by and among Harman International Industries, Incorporated, KKR I-H Limited, GS Capital Partners VI Fund L.P., GS Capital
Partners VI Parallel, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI Offshore Fund, L.P., GS Capital Partners VI GmbH & Co. KG, Citibank, N.A. and HSBC USA Inc. and, for limited purposes, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on October 25, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)




10.2
  
Multi-Currency Credit Agreement by and among Harman International Industries, Incorporated, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG, J.P. Morgan Securities (USA), Inc. and Unicredit Bank
AG, New York Branch, as Joint Lead Arrangers, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and Unicredit Bank AG, New York Branch, as Syndication Agents, Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and
RBS Citizens, N.A., as Documentation Agents, and the other banks and financial institutions party thereto, dated as of December 1, 2010. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 7, 2010 and
hereby incorporated by reference)




10.3
  
Guarantee and Collateral Agreement by and among Harman International Industries, Incorporated, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG, the subsidiaries of Harman International Industries,
Incorporated identified therein, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, dated as of December 1, 2010. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 7, 2010 and hereby
incorporated by reference)




10.4
  
Harman International Industries, Incorporated 1992 Incentive Plan, as amended and restated. (filed as Exhibit B to the 1999 Proxy Statement and hereby incorporated by
reference)**




10.5
  
Harman International Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Appendix A to the 2008 Proxy Statement and hereby incorporated by
reference)**




10.6
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
December 31, 2010 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.7
  
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for Non-Officer Directors under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit
10.11 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.8
  
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on August 22, 2005 and hereby incorporated by reference)**
  109



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




10.9
  
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as
Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on August 22, 2005 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.10
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit
10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on August 22, 2005 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.11
  
Form of Nonqualified Performance Stock Option Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.
(filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.12
  
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, related to the Stock Option Award, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 9, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.13
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, related to the Restricted Stock Award, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 9, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.14
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, related to the Inducement Stock Award, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 9, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.15
  
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, related to the Equity Replacement Award, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 9, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.16
  
Form of Restricted Share Unit Agreement, related to the RSU Replacement Award, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.7 to
the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on May 9, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.17
  
Form of Restricted Share Unit Agreement, related to the Restricted Share Unit Award, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.3
to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 4, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.18
  
Form of Performance Based Restricted Share Unit Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002 Stock
Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.19
  
Form of Restricted Share Unit Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive
Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.20
  
Form of Restricted Share Unit Agreement for Non-Officer Directors under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.
(filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**
  110



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




10.21
  
Form of Restricted Share Unit Agreement, related to Dinesh Paliwal’s annual equity awards, under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002
Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.22
  
Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement, related to Dinesh Paliwal’s annual equity awards, under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002
Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.23
  
Restricted Share Unit Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal, related to a January 2008 award. (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.24
  
Restricted Share Unit Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal, related to a September 2008 award under the Harman International
Industries, Incorporated Amended and Restated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.25
  
Restricted Share Unit Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Herbert Parker, related to a September 2008 award. (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.26
  
Time-Based Restricted Share Unit Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal, related to a September 2009 award under the Amended and Restated
Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 1, 2009 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.27
  
Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal, related to a September 2009 award under the Amended and
Restated Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2002 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 1, 2009 and hereby incorporated by
reference)**




10.28
  
Harman International Industries, Incorporated Management Incentive Compensation Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
December 21, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.29
  
Harman International Industries, Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated as of October 1, 1999. (filed as Exhibit 10.27 to the Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.30
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Harman International Industries, Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, dated September 24, 2002. (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2002 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.31
  
Form of Benefit Agreement under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006
and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.32
  
Harman International Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective June 1, 1997. (filed as Exhibit 4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed with the
Commission on June 9, 1997, and hereby incorporated by reference)**
  111



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




10.33
  
Amendment No. 1 to the Harman International Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan dated October 1, 1999. (filed as Exhibit 10.46 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended June 30, 2000 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.34
  
Amendment No. 2 to the Harman International Industries, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, effective December 16, 2003. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2003 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.35
  
Letter Agreement, dated May 8, 2007, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Commission on May 9, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.36
  
Amendment to Letter Agreement, dated November 29, 2007, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on December 4, 2007 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.37
  
Amendment to Letter Agreement, dated December 31, 2008 between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal. (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.38
  
Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal dated December 31, 2008. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.39
  
Amendment to Letter Agreement, dated September 1, 2009, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Dinesh Paliwal (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Commission on September 1, 2009 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.40
  
Summary of equity awards granted to Mr. Paliwal and Mr. Parker in September 2008. (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.41
  
Letter Agreement, dated May 2, 2008, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Herbert Parker. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Commission on May 6, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.42
  
Employment Agreement, dated January 11, 2008, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and John Stacey. (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.43
  
Employment Agreement, dated May 30, 2008, between Harman Management GmbH and Klaus Blickle. (filed as Exhibit 10.37 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.44
  
Letter Agreement, dated August 8, 2008, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Jennifer Peter. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed
with the Commission on August 21, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.45
  
Letter Agreement, dated August 22, 2008, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Todd Suko. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.46
  
Amended and Restated Severance Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Herbert Parker dated December 22, 2008. (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**
  112



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




10.47
  
Letter Agreement, dated January 9, 2009, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Sachin Lawande. (filed as Exhibit 10.13 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.48
  
Letter Agreement, dated January 9, 2009, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and David Slump. (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.49
  
Form of Severance Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and Blake Augsburger, David Karch, Sachin Lawande, David Slump, John Stacey and Todd Suko (filed as
Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.50
  
Form of Severance Agreement between Harman International Industries, Incorporated, and each of Herbert Parker, Blake Augsburger, David Karch, Sachin Lawande, David Slump, John
Stacey and Todd Suko (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on April 26, 2010 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.51
  
Agreement between and among Harman Management GmbH and Dr. Klaus Blickle, dated February 23, 2011. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the
Commission on March 1, 2011 and hereby incorporated by reference)**




10.52
  
Second Amended and Restated Multi-Currency, Multi-Option Credit Agreement, dated March 31, 2009, among Harman International Industries, Incorporated, Harman Holding GmbH &
Co. KG, and the several lenders and agents from time to time parties thereto. (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and hereby incorporated by reference)




10.53
  
Guarantee and Collateral Agreement, dated March 31, 2009, among Harman International Industries, Incorporated, Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG, certain subsidiaries of the
Company parties thereto, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the several lenders from time to time parties to the Second Amended and Restated Multi-Currency, Multi-Option Credit Agreement. (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and hereby incorporated by reference)




10.54
  
Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2012 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (filed as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated October 28, 2011 and hereby incorporated by
reference).**




10.55
  
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for Officers and Key Employees under the Harman International Industries, Incorporated 2012 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012 and hereby incorporated by reference).




10.56
  
First Amendment, dated as of December 15, 2011, to the Multi-Currency Credit Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2010, among Harman International Industries, Incorporated,
Harman Holding GmbH & Co. KG, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and Unicredit Bank AG, New York Branch, as Syndication Agents; Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and RBS Citizens, N.A. as Documentation Agents; J.P. Morgan Securities
LLC, HSBC Securities (USA), Inc. and Unicredit Bank AG, New York Branch, as Joint Lead Arrangers; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent and the financial institutions party thereto. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K filed with the Commission on December 21, 2011 and hereby incorporated by reference).




10.57
  
Letter Agreement, dated September 15, 2011, between Harman International Industries, Incorporated and I.P. Park. (Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended December 31, 2012 and hereby incorporated by reference).**
  113



Table of Contents






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description




21.1
  
Subsidiaries of Harman International Industries, Incorporated. +




23.1
  
Consent of KPMG LLP. +




31.1
  
Certification of Dinesh Paliwal filed pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. +




31.2
  
Certification of Herbert Parker filed pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. +




32.1
  
Certification of Dinesh Paliwal and Herbert Parker filed pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. +




99.1
  
Form of Indemnification Letter Agreement with Directors and Executive Officers. (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on
February 13, 2009 and hereby incorporated by reference)




101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.*




101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.*




101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase.*




101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase.*




101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase.*




101.PRE
  
XBRL Presentation Linkbase.*
  


*
Submitted electronically herewith. 


**
Management contract, compensatory plan or arrangement. 


+
Filed herewith.  Attached as
Exhibit 101 to this report are the following financial information formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, (ii) Consolidated
Balance Sheets at June 30, 2012 and 2011, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the
years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL related information in Exhibit 101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed
to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be part of any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities
Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 
  114



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   








 
 
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED





Date: August 10, 2012
 
By:
 
 /S/    DINESH
PALIWAL        


 

 
Dinesh Paliwal


 

 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the capacities indicated below.   












 /S/    DINESH
PALIWAL         Dinesh Paliwal
  
 Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    HERBERT
PARKER         Herbert Parker
  
 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    JENNIFER
PETER         Jennifer Peter
  
 Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    BRIAN
CARROLL         Brian Carroll
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    DR. HARALD
EINSMANN         Dr. Harald Einsmann
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    ANN
MCLAUGHLIN KOROLOGOS         Ann
McLaughlin Korologos
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    DR. JIREN
LIU         Dr. Jiren Liu
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    EDWARD
MEYER         Edward Meyer
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    KENNETH
REISS         Kenneth Reiss
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    HELLENE
RUNTAGH         Hellene Runtagh
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    FRANK
SKLARSKY         Frank Sklarsky
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012





 /S/    GARY
STEEL         Gary Steel
  
 Director
 
August 10, 2012

  115



Table of Contents
Schedule II 
HARMAN INTERNATIONAL INDUSTRIES, INCORPORATED  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  Year Ended June 30,
2012, 2011 and 2010  (in thousands)   
























 Classification
  
Balance atBeginningof Period
 
  
Charged toCosts andExpenses
 
  
Chargedto OtherAccounts
 
 
Deductions
 
  
Balanceat End ofPeriod
 

 Year ended June 30, 2010
  



  



  



 



  




 Allowance for doubtful accounts 
  
$
11,632
  
  
 
560
  
  
 
(1,047
) 
 
 
3,082
  
  
$
8,063
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Year ended June 30, 2011
  



  



  



 



  




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
8,063
  
  
 
1,189
  
  
 
807
  
 
 
3,087
  
  
$
6,972
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 








 Year ended June 30, 2012
  



  



  



 



  




 Allowance for doubtful accounts
  
$
6,972
  
  
 
3,413
  
  
 
(501
) 
 
 
3,929
  
  
$
5,955
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  116



Table of Contents
Harman International Industries, Incorporated 
2012 Form 10-K Annual Report  Exhibit Document  The following exhibits are attached hereto. See Part IV
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a complete list of exhibits.   






 ExhibitNo.
  
 Exhibit Description

21.1
  
Subsidiaries of Harman International Industries, Incorporated.




23.1
  
Consent of KPMG LLP.




31.1
  
Certification of Dinesh Paliwal filed pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
  
Certification of Herbert Parker filed pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.1
  
Certification of Dinesh Paliwal and Herbert Parker filed pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document.*




101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.*




101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase.*




101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase.*




101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase.*




101.PRE
  
XBRL Presentation Linkbase.*
  


*
Submitted electronically herewith.  Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following financial information formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, (ii) Consolidated Balance Sheets at June 30, 2012 and 2011, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010, (iv) Consolidated Statements of
Shareholders’ Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended June 30, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and (v) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the XBRL related information in Exhibit
101 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be part of any
registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 



