
10-K
1
a2208048z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS









 
Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549  
FORM 10-K  











(Mark One)
 
 


ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011


 or


o
 
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the transition period
from                        to                
      





 Commission file number 001-33404  
URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter) 








DELAWARE
(State of Incorporation)
 
 75-2212772
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)


 405 State Highway Bypass 121,
Building A, Suite 110
Lewisville, Texas (Address of principal executive offices)
 


75067 (Zip code)



(972) 219-3330
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code) 
         Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 








Title of Each Class 
 
Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 


Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share
 
NASDAQ Capital Market



         Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None  
(Title of class) 
         Indicate
by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
"accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 















Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer ý
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company o




         Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act). Yes o    No ý 
         The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant at June 30, 2011, was approximately $121,880,454. Number
of shares of Common Stock, $0.001 par value, outstanding as of March 9, 2012: 106,062,979 shares. 
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
         Items 10,
11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III of this Form 10-K report are incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Definitive Proxy Statement for the
Registrant's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
  

   


 




 










Table of Contents 
 
 URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.  
 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K  
 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011  
    TABLE OF CONTENTS     

 














 PART I
 
 
1
 


 Item 1. Business
 
 

1
 


 The Company
 
 

1
 


 Our Strategy
 
 

1
 


 Subsequent Events: Signing of Definitive Agreement for
Acquisition of Neutron Energy, Inc. and Financing Agreement
 
 

2
 


 New Mexico Assets
 
 

2
 


 Texas Production History and Current Status
 
 

3
 


 2011 Events
 
 

4
 


 Uranium Reserves/Mineralized Material
 
 

5
 


 Long-Term Delivery Contracts
 
 

6
 


 Overview of the Uranium Industry
 
 

6
 


 The ISR Mining Process
 
 

7
 


 Environmental Considerations and Permitting
 
 

8
 


 Reclamation and Restoration Costs and Bonding
Requirements
 
 

9
 


 Water Rights
 
 

10
 


 Competition
 
 

10
 


 Available Information
 
 

10
 


 Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
 

11
 


 General Risks and Uncertainties
 
 

11
 


 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
 
 

18
 


 Item 2. Properties
 
 

19
 


 South Texas
 
 

19
 


 New Mexico
 
 

27
 


 Insurance
 
 

37
 


 Reclaimed Properties
 
 

37
 


 Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 
 

38
 


 ENDAUM Litigation
 
 

38
 


 Dispute over Kleberg County Settlement
Agreement
 
 

38
 


 Kingsville Dome Production Disposal Well Permit Renewals and
Area Authorization 3
 
 

39
 





i



 
Table of Contents














 Navajo EPA Letter and UNC/GE Demand for Indemnity
 
 
40
 


 Other
 
 

40
 


 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
 

40
 


 GLOSSARY OF CERTAIN URANIUM INDUSTRY TERMS
 
 

40
 


 PART II
 
 

43
 


 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
 

43
 


 Dividends
 
 

43
 


 Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
Plans
 
 

43
 


 Performance Graph
 
 

44
 


 Item 6. Selected Financial Data
 
 

45
 


 Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operation
 
 

46
 


 Forward Looking Statements
 
 

46
 


 Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
 
 

46
 


 Liquidity—Cash Sources and Uses for 2012
 
 

50
 


 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
 

51
 


 Contractual Obligations
 
 

51
 


 Critical Accounting Policies
 
 

52
 


 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk
 
 

52
 


 Uranium Price Volatility
 
 

52
 


 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data
 
 

53
 


 Financial Statements
 
 

53
 


 Supplementary Financial Data Tables
 
 

53
 


 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
 

53
 


 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
 

53
 


 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and
Procedures
 
 

53
 


 Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting
 
 

53
 


 Item 9B. Other Information
 
 

54
 





ii



 
Table of Contents














 PART III
 
 
55
 


 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
Governance
 
 

55
 


 Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
 

55
 


 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder
Matters
 
 

55
 


 Item 13. Certain Relationship and Related Transactions and Director Independence
 
 

55
 


 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and
Services
 
 

55
 


 PART IV
 
 

55
 


 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules
 
 

55
 


 SIGNATURES
 
 

56
 


 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 

F-1
 


 Exhibit Index
 
 

E-1
 





iii




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART I     
        The "Company" or "Registrant" or "URI" is used in this report to refer to Uranium Resources, Inc. and
its consolidated subsidiaries. This 10-K contains "forward-looking statements." These statements include, without limitation, statements relating to management's expectations regarding the
Company's ability to remain solvent, capital requirements, mineralized materials, timing of receipt of mining permits, access rights, production capacity of mining operations planned for properties in
South Texas and New Mexico and planned dates for commencement of production at such properties, business strategies and other plans and objectives of the Company's management for future operations and
activities and other such matters. The words "believes," "plans," "intends," "strategy," "projects," "targets," or "anticipates" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. The
Company does not undertake to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking information. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with the
Company's disclosures under the heading: "Risk Factors" beginning on page 11.
        Certain terms used in this Form 10-K and other industry terms are defined in the "Glossary of Certain Terms" appearing at the end of
Part I hereto.
 
    Item 1.    Business.     
 
    The Company     
        Uranium Resources, Inc. (URI) is a uranium exploration, development and production company. We were organized in 1977 to acquire
and develop uranium mines in South Texas using the in-situ recovery mining process (ISR). Since its founding, URI has produced over 8 million pounds U3O8
from five Texas projects, two of which have been fully restored and returned to the land owners. The Company currently has two fully licensed ISR processing facilities in Texas: Kingsville Dome and
Rosita. In addition, through a joint venture with Cameco Resources ("Cameco") we are continuing an exploration program on the 53,524 acre Los Finados property in Kenedy County, Texas. Since 1986, the
Company has built a significant asset base in New Mexico that includes 101.4 million pounds U3O8 of in-place mineralized uranium material on 183,000 acres of
uranium mineral holdings. We have a Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) license to build a 3 million pound U3O8 per year ISR processing facility at Crownpoint, New
Mexico. As of February 29, 2012 we had 47 employees. As a result of low uranium prices, we ceased production in 2009. 
 
 
  Our Strategy     
        URI's vision is to be a leading U.S. uranium producer and developer. To that end, we are focused on developing our assets in New
Mexico, consolidating uranium properties to gain production economies while also expanding assets in Texas in order to capitalize on our two processing facilities in South Texas. Key operational
elements of the strategic plan for our Texas properties include (1) positioning the Company to return to production in Texas should the price of uranium return to a level sufficient to generate
positive cash flow; (2) advance phase II of the Los Finados exploration project and determine the value of continuing through Phase III while enhancing the Company's exploration
capabilities; (3) continue to maintain our restoration activities in South Texas in accordance with the Company's existing agreements and regulatory requirements and (4) analyze any
synergistic opportunities and potential asset monetization prospects in Texas. In New Mexico, our strategic plan calls for continuing to advance our uranium consolidation activities, as well as
maintain our discussions with entities that would benefit from the production of the uranium. In addition, we will continue our communication efforts with the local communities, State and local
governments and the Navajo Nation to address legacy issues while continuing education efforts on the safety of today's
uranium mining practices with the objective of bridging the gap that currently exists between uranium mining entities and others with stakeholder interests in the State. 
1



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Subsequent Events: Signing of Definitive Agreement for Acquisition of Neutron Energy Inc. and Financing Agreement     
        Throughout 2011, the Company was actively pursuing its strategy of consolidating resources in the New Mexico uranium district. In March
2012, we announced the execution of a merger agreement to acquire 100% of the equity capital (the "Transaction") of Neutron Energy, Inc. ("Neutron"). As part of the Transaction, Resource
Capital Fund V L.P. ("RCF") has agreed to purchase $20 million of the Company's common stock to retire the majority of Neutron's outstanding debt owed to RMB Australia Holdings Limited
("RMB"). The remainder of Neutron debt owed to RMB will be converted into URI common stock, resulting in URI acquiring Neutron on a debt-free basis. The Transaction, which has been
unanimously approved by the Boards of Directors of both URI and Neutron, is subject to shareholder approval of each company and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2012. 
        URI
has also entered into an investment agreement with RCF pursuant to which RCF will provide $10 million in funding to URI through the purchase of 10.3 million of the
Company's common stock. This $10 million capital infusion was completed on March 9, 2012. A total of 37 million URI common shares will be issued for total consideration
$38.1 million based on URI's closing stock on February 24, 2012 of $1.03. Upon closing of the merger, URI, at its option, can receive an additional $5 million in RCF financing. 
        Neutron
is a private uranium exploration and development company with significant assets located in the Grants Mineral Belt of New Mexico, including the Cebolleta and Juan Tafoya
projects that cover 10,814 acres. The Cebolleta property contains 6.68 million tons of mineralized material at a grade of 0.176% U3O8 and 4.5 million tons of
mineralized material at a grade of 0.09% U3O8, while the Juan Tafoya property contains 3.81 million tons of mineralized material at a grade of 0.149%
U3O8 and 0.39 million tons of mineralized material at a grade of 0.112% U3O8. These properties are located on private lands and are planned to be
mined using conventional techniques. Neutron also holds a suite of properties that neighbor certain URI properties west of Mt. Taylor, in the Ambrosia Lake region, that contain 3.2 million tons
of mineralized material at a grade of 0.148% U3O8. Most of the mineralized material at the Ambrosia Lake projects is planned to be mined using conventional techniques, while
there may be small isolated pockets which can be mined by ISR techniques. Neutron also has uranium assets in South Dakota and Wyoming. 
        The
total of the New Mexico uranium holdings for the two companies combined is over 206,600 acres. 
 
 
  New Mexico Assets     
        URI holds a NRC source materials license to build and operate an ISR uranium processing facility on company-owned property at
Crownpoint, New Mexico. The license allows for ISR mining at the Churchrock and Crownpoint projects that together hold nearly 34 million pounds U3O8 of
in-place mineralized uranium material. The license allows for the production of up to 1 million pounds per year from Churchrock until a successful commercial demonstration of
restoration is made; after which the quantity of production can be increased and mining on other properties can begin. Total production under the license is limited to 3 million pounds
U3O8 per year. The Company completed a technical report on its Churchrock Section 8 project which was subjected to a peer review by an independent engineering firm in
order to validate the economic determinations and engineering plans. The feasibility study completed by the engineering firm is currently under review by the Company. The Company's ability to begin
plant construction and wellfield development in New Mexico in 2012 with production following in 2013 is subject to the receipt of necessary approvals for access to the property (See Item 2.
Properties—New Mexico—Churchrock/Mancos"), availability of financing and activation of our permits and licenses. These plans include initiating infrastructure construction and
core and definition drilling at our Churchrock Section 8 property in the second quarter of 2012. Current plans 
2



 
Table of Contents
are
to initially transport uranium loaded resin to either our Kingsville Dome or Rosita processing facility which is expected to accelerate the process to get to production, as the Crownpoint
processing facility is constructed. 
        Overall
in New Mexico, the Company owns 183,000 acres of mineral holdings that contain approximately 101.4 million pounds U3O8 of in-place
mineralized uranium material that has been verified by an independent engineering firm. A substantial amount of our acreage remains unexplored or currently has insufficient data to estimate
in-place mineralized materials. These properties were acquired during the 1980s and 1990s along with a vast database of exploration logs and drill results that were developed by Conoco,
Homestake Mining, Mobil Oil, Kerr-McGee, Phillips Petroleum, United Nuclear and Westinghouse Electric Corporation. Three of our properties were in various stages of being developed as
conventional underground mines in the early 1980s with a total designed capacity to produce approximately
4.5 million pounds U3O8 per year. We also possess a 16.5% royalty interest on a partial section of the Mount Taylor Mine owned by Rio Grande Resources, a division of
General Atomics. 
        Since
2007, we have digitized approximately 18,800 drill logs in order to secure the data and allow for easier analysis of drill hole information. These logs total nearly
23 million feet of hole drilled in the 1970s and 1980s with an estimated drilling and logging replacement cost of $700 million. 
        The
Company plans to develop its uranium assets in New Mexico using the most economic and efficient method for each project and will be subject to improvements in uranium prices. These
mining methods may include the use of ISR, old stope leaching, and conventional mining and milling techniques. 
 
 
  Texas Production History and Current Status     
        The Company developed and produced over 560,000 pounds U3O8 from the Longoria and Benavides projects in the
early 1980s. These properties were fully restored between 1986 and 1991. From 1988 through 1999, we produced approximately 6.1 million pounds U3O8 from two South Texas
projects: 3.5 million pounds from the Kingsville Dome project and 2.6 million pounds U3O8 from the Rosita project. In 1999, we shut-down production at
both projects due to depressed uranium prices. We had no revenue from uranium sales between 2000 and the fourth quarter of 2004, and therefore had to rely on equity infusions to fund operations and
maintain our critical employees and assets. 
        After
uranium prices rose significantly in 2004, we placed our South Texas Vasquez property into production during the fourth quarter of that year. In April 2006, Kingsville Dome
returned to production followed by a startup of Rosita in June 2008. From 2004 to the end of 2009, these three projects produced a total of 1.4 million pounds of U3O8. 
        The
Vasquez project was mined out in 2008 and is now in restoration. Rosita production was shut-in in October 2008 due to depressed pricing and technical challenges in the
first new wellfield that made mining uneconomical. The decline in uranium prices throughout 2008 also led to a decision in October 2008 to defer new wellfield development at Rosita and Kingsville
Dome. Production continued in two existing wellfields at Kingsville Dome and was completed in July 2009. The Company has not had any operating mines in Texas since that time, and is currently
evaluating the factors for resuming production at our South Texas projects. 
        The
Company's strategy with regard to restarting production in South Texas is to insure that production, once resumed, is sustainable in the 300,000 to 500,000 pound range per year. The
Company believes its existing South Texas reserve base from its existing production areas at Kingsville Dome and Rosita and the reserves identified at its Rosita South and adjacent Rosita production
acreage will enable it to produce at that level for up to two years. The Company is in the process of finalizing the necessary permits for its Rosita South and adjacent Rosita acreage and expects the
required permits 
3



 
Table of Contents
will
be granted. Production could begin within 6-12 months after a decision to restart is made and will be dependent upon sustainable realized uranium prices stabilizing at
profitable levels. 
        Longer-term,
the Company plans to expand its resources through acquisition of additional South Texas properties and through exploration activities. The first phase of the
exploration component of this plan was initiated with the Company signing a three-year exploration agreement covering 53,524 acres in Kenedy County, Texas. The exploration agreement
includes an option to lease the acreage for uranium production. 
 
 
  2011 Events     
        In May 2011, URI entered into a joint venture agreement with Cameco Resources ("Cameco") for a three-phase, three-year
exploration program on the Los Finados property in Kenedy County, Texas. The first phase of the drilling program began on June 21 and was completed by November 30 at a cost of
approximately $1 million. A total of 19 holes totaling 24,560 feet were drilled in the initial phase. Phase I exploratory work used a widely spaced drilling program covering a grid
designed to test the potential for uranium mineralization over the 53,524 acre area. 
        In
May 2011, the Company received notice from the New Mexico Environment Department ("NMED") that its discharge plan (New Mexico's terminology for an Underground Injection Control Permit
under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act), was in timely renewal and that the NMED would proceed in conducting a technical review of its renewal application. NMED's confirmation that the discharge
plan is in timely renewal allowed the Company to remain on track for the timing of its production plans in New Mexico. 
        In
October 2011, the Company received notification that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC") reactivated our Source Materials License to conduct in-situ recovery (ISR)
uranium mining in McKinley County, New Mexico. The license, which was originally issued in 1998 to Hydro Resources, Inc., URI's wholly-owned subsidiary, has been in timely renewal status since
2003. The reactivation effectively enables the use of the license by the Company for the production of uranium as defined in the license. With this notice the Company has undertaken to renew the
license for a standard 10-year term. During the renewal process, the active license may be utilized according to its present terms and conditions, which allows for the production of up to
1 million pounds per year from Churchrock Section 8 until a successful commercial demonstration of restoration is made, after which mining on other properties can begin and the quantity
of production can be increased to 3 million pounds per year. 
        In
November 2011, the Company and Cameco announced its intent to move forward with Phase II exploration program on Los Finados Project. The second phase of drilling began in
December 2011 and is expected to be completed by the end of November 2012. URI has committed an additional $1.5 million in exploration activities during the twelve-month period ended
November 30, 2012, in order to maintain the option to lease the property. Under Phase II of the agreement with URI, Cameco will fund $1.0 million toward those exploration
activities and will earn an additional 10% interest in Los Finados, raising its interest in the project to 50%. Cameco may elect to fund the entire $1.5 million by moving into Phase III
of the program. 
        Throughout
2011, the Company's focus in New Mexico has been on the completion of its feasibility study to determine the options available to advance its Churchrock/Crownpoint project.
The feasibility study and its proposed options will determine the best mining method of the Company's various projects in New Mexico as well as the size, design and capabilities of its
Churchrock/Crownpoint ISR wellfield and processing facilities. Construction and production will be dependent upon having the necessary financial resources in place, the speed of construction
activities, the availability of capital equipment and a recovery in uranium prices. The Company completed a technical report on its Churchrock Section 8 project which was subjected to a peer
review by an independent 
4



 
Table of Contents
engineering
firm in order to validate the economic determinations and engineering plans. The feasibility study completed by the engineering firm is currently under review by the Company. 
 
 
  Uranium Reserves/Mineralized Material     
        In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's (the "SEC") Guideline on Non-Reserve Mineralized Material, and
as shown in the following table, we estimate 101.4 million pounds of in-place mineralized uranium material on our New Mexico properties as of December 31, 2011. The estimate
for each New Mexico property is based on studies and geologic reports prepared by prior owners, along with studies and reports prepared by geologists engaged by the Company. The estimates presented
below were reviewed and affirmed by Behre Dolbear & Company (USA) an independent private engineering firm in their report dated February 26, 2008. Since the date of the report, the
Company has maintained its ownership position of these properties, the properties have not been subject to any production activities and the estimates remain unchanged. 
 
 
  SUMMARY OF IN-PLACE NON-RESERVE MINERALIZED  MATERIAL IN NEW MEXICO     



















Property



 
Tonnage
Millions 
 
Grade
Percent 
 
Non-Reserve
Mineralized
Material
Millions of Lbs. U3O8 
 


 Mancos
 
 
5.2
 
 
0.11
%
 
11.3
 


 Churchrock
 
 
7.8
 
 
0.12
%
 
18.6
 


 Nose Rock
 
 
7.6
 
 
0.15
%
 
21.9
 


 West Largo
 
 
2.8
 
 
0.30
%
 
17.2
 


 Roca Honda
 
 
3.9
 
 
0.19
%
 
14.7
 


 Crownpoint
 
 
4.8
 
 
0.16
%
 
15.3
 


 Ambrosia Lake
 
 
0.71
 
 
0.17
%
 
2.4
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
101.4
 




        The
Company believes the Mancos, Churchrock and Crownpoint properties will be amenable to ISR mining methods, the Roca Honda to conventional mining and the Nose Rock, West Largo and
Ambrosia Lake to ISR and/or conventional mining methods. 
        The
following table summarizes our estimates of Proven Reserves for our Kingsville Dome and Rosita properties in South Texas. These estimates have been produced by the Company's
professional engineering and geologic staff. 
 
 
  SUMMARY OF IN-PLACE RESERVES IN SOUTH TEXAS     



















Property



 
Tonnage
Millions 
 
Grade
Percent 
 
Proven Uranium Reserves
Millions of Lbs. U3O8
at 12/31/2011 
 


 Kingsville Dome
 
 
0.035
 
 
0.071
%
 
0.050
 


 Rosita
 
 
0.133
 
 
0.080
%
 
0.224
 


 Rosita South(1)
 
 
0.129
 
 
0.077
 
 
0.198
 


 Rosita(1)
 
 
0.112
 
 
0.086
 
 
0.192
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.664
 








(1)The
Company is in the process of finalizing the necessary permits for these areas and expects the required permits will be granted. 

5



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Long-Term Delivery Contracts     
        In March 2006, we entered into contracts with Itochu Corporation and UG USA, Inc. (superseding prior agreements), each of which
calls for delivery of one-half of our actual production from our Texas properties (excluding our Los Finados project and another large potential exploration play). The terms of these 2006
contracts are summarized below. 
         The Itochu Contract.    Under the Itochu contract all production from the Vasquez property was sold at a price equal to the average spot
price for the
eight weeks prior to the date of delivery less $6.50 per pound, with a floor for the spot price of $37.00 per pound and a ceiling of $46.50 per pound. Other Texas production will be sold at a price
equal to the average spot price for the eight weeks prior to the date of delivery less $7.50 per pound, with a floor for the spot price of $37.00 per pound and a ceiling of $43.00 per pound. On
non-Vasquez production the price paid will be increased by 30% of the difference between the actual spot price and the $43.00 ceiling up to and including $50.00 per pound. If the spot
price is over $50.00 per pound, the price on all Texas production will be increased by 50% of such excess. The floor and ceiling and sharing arrangement over the ceiling applies to 3.65 million
pounds of deliveries, after which there is no floor or ceiling. Itochu has the right to cancel any deliveries on six-month's notice. Since the inception of the new contract through
December 31, 2011, we have delivered approximately 510,000 pounds to Itochu. 
         The UG Contract.    Under the UG contract all production from the Vasquez property and other Texas production will be sold at a price
equal to the
month-end long-term
contract price for the second month prior to the month of delivery less $6 per pound until (i) 600,000 pounds have been sold in a particular delivery year and (ii) an aggregate of
3 million pounds of uranium has been sold. After the 600,000 pounds in any year and 3 million pounds total have been sold, UG will have a right of first refusal to purchase other Texas
production at a price equal to the average spot price for a period prior to the date of delivery less 4%. In consideration of UG's agreement to restructure its previously existing contract, we paid UG
$12 million in cash. Through December 31, 2011, we have delivered approximately 482,000 pounds to UG. 
        The
Itochu and UG contracts contain provisions which exclude the Company's requirement to deliver uranium produced from two specifically identified large ranch properties in South Texas.
Uranium produced from the Company's Los Finados project is one of the properties that is not subject to the conditions of these contracts. 
 
 
  Overview of the Uranium Industry     
        The only significant commercial use for uranium is as a fuel for nuclear power plants for the generation of electricity. According to
the World Nuclear Association ("WNA"), as of February 2012, there were 434 nuclear power plants operating in the world with an annual consumption of about 147 million pounds of uranium. In
addition, the WNA lists 61 reactors under construction, 156 being planned and 343 being proposed. 
        Based
on reports by Ux Consulting Company, LLC, ("Ux"), the preliminary estimate for worldwide production of uranium in 2011 is 140 million pounds. Ux reported that the gap
between production and demand was filled by secondary supplies, such as inventories held by governments, utilities and others in the fuel cycle, including the highly enriched uranium, or HEU,
inventories which are a result of the agreement between the US and Russia to blend down nuclear warheads. These secondary supplies are currently meeting over 25% of worldwide demand but are depleting. 
        Spot
market prices rose from $21.00 per pound in January 2005 to a high of $136.00 per pound in June 2007 in anticipation of sharply higher projected demand as a result of a resurgence
in nuclear power and the depletion or unavailability of secondary supplies. The sharp price increase was driven in part by high levels of utility buying, which resulted in most utilities covering
their requirements through 
6



 
Table of Contents
2009.
A decrease in near-term utility demand coupled with rising levels of supplies from producers and traders led to downward pressure on uranium prices since the third quarter of 2007.
The spot market price for uranium at the start of 2011 was $62.50 per pound and ranged between a low of $49.00 per pound in August to a year-end of $51.75 per pound. As of
February 28, 2012, the spot price was $52.00 per pound and the long-term contract price was $60.00 per pound. 
        The
following graph shows annual average spot prices per pound from 1992 to 2011 and the average weekly price for the period January 1, 2012 to February 28, 2012, as
reported by Ux Consulting. 
 
 
  Ux Average Annual U3O8 Spot Price     



 
 
  The ISR Mining Process     
        The ISR mining process is a form of solution mining. It differs dramatically from conventional mining techniques. The ISR technique
avoids the movement and milling of significant quantities of rock and ore as well as mill tailing waste associated with more traditional mining methods. It is generally more cost-effective
and environmentally benign than conventional mining. Historically, the majority of United States uranium production resulted from either open pit surface mines or underground mining. 
        The
ISR process was first tested for the production of uranium in the mid-1960s and was first applied to a commercial-scale project in 1975 in South Texas. It was well
established in South Texas by the late 1970's, where it was employed in about twenty commercial projects, including two operated by us. 
        In
the ISR process, groundwater fortified with oxygen and other solubilizing agents is pumped into a permeable ore body causing the uranium contained in the ore to dissolve. The
resulting solution is pumped to the surface. The fluid-bearing uranium is then circulated to an ion exchange column on the surface where uranium is extracted from the fluid onto resin beads. The fluid
is then reinjected into the ore body. When the ion exchange column's resin beads are loaded with uranium, they are removed and flushed with a salt-water solution, which strips the uranium
from the beads. This leaves the uranium in slurry, which is then dried and packaged for shipment as uranium concentrates. 
7




 










Table of Contents 
        For greater operating efficiency and lower capital expenditures, when developing new wellfields we use a wellfield-specific remote ion exchange methodology as
opposed to a central plant as we had done historically. Instead of piping the solutions over large distances through large diameter pipelines and mixing the waters of several wellfields together, each
wellfield is being mined using a dedicated satellite ion exchange facility. This allows ion exchange to take place at the wellfield instead of at the central plant. A wellfield consists of a series of
injection wells, production (extraction) wells and monitoring wells drilled in specified patterns. Wellfield pattern is crucial to minimizing costs and maximizing efficiencies of production. The
satellite facilities allow mining of each wellfield using its own native groundwater. 
 
 
  Environmental Considerations and Permitting     
        Uranium mining is regulated by the federal government, states and, in some cases, by Indian tribes. Compliance with such regulation has
a material effect on the economics of our operations and the timing of project development. Our primary regulatory costs have been related to obtaining licenses and permits from federal and state
agencies before the commencement of mining activities. The current environmental regulatory requirements for the ISR industry are well established. Many ISR mines have gone full cycle without any
significant environmental impact.
However, the public anti-nuclear lobby can make environmental permitting difficult and timing unpredictable. 
        U.S.
regulations pertaining to climate change continue to evolve in both the U.S. and internationally. We do not anticipate any adverse impact from these regulations that would be unique
to our operations. 
         Radioactive Material License.    Before commencing operations in both Texas and New Mexico, we must obtain a radioactive material
license. Under the
federal Atomic Energy Act, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission has primary jurisdiction over the issuance of a radioactive material license. However, the Atomic Energy Act also allows for
states with regulatory programs deemed satisfactory by the Commission to take primary responsibility for issuing the radioactive material license. The Commission has ceded jurisdiction for such
licenses to Texas, but not to New Mexico. Such ceding of jurisdiction by the Commission is hereinafter referred to as the "granting of primacy." 
        The
Texas Commission of Environmental Quality (TCEQ) is the administrative agency with jurisdiction in Texas over the radioactive material license. For operations in New Mexico,
radioactive material licensing is handled directly by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 
        See
"Properties" and "Legal Proceedings" for the status of our radioactive material
license for New Mexico and Texas. 
         Underground Injection Control Permits ("UIC").    The federal Safe Drinking Water Act creates a nationwide regulatory program
protecting groundwater.
This law is administered by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (the "USEPA"). However, to avoid the burden of dual federal and state regulation, the Safe Drinking Water Act allows for
the UIC permits issued by states to satisfy the UIC permit required under the Safe Drinking Water Act under two conditions. First, the state's program must have been granted primacy. Second, the USEPA
must have granted, upon request by the state, an aquifer exemption. The USEPA may delay or decline to process the state's application if the USEPA questions the state's jurisdiction over the mine
site. 
        Texas
has been granted primacy for its UIC programs, and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality administers UIC permits. The TCEQ also regulates air quality and surface deposition
or discharge of treated wastewater associated with the ISR mining process. 
        New
Mexico has also been granted primacy for its UIC program. The Navajo Nation has been determined eligible for treatment as a state, but it has not requested the grant of primacy from
the USEPA for uranium related UIC activity. Until the Navajo Nation has been granted primacy, ISR 
8



 
Table of Contents
uranium
mining activities within Navajo Nation jurisdiction will require a UIC permit from the USEPA. Despite some procedural differences, the substantive requirements of the Texas, New Mexico and
USEPA underground injection control programs are very similar. 
        Properties
located in Indian Country remain subject to the jurisdiction of the USEPA. Some of our properties are located in areas that may be in Indian Country. 
        See
"Properties" and "Legal Proceedings" for a description of the status of our UIC
permits in Texas and New Mexico. 
         Other.    In addition to radioactive material licenses and UIC permits, we are also required to obtain from governmental
authorities a number of other
permits or exemptions, such as for wastewater discharge, for land application of treated wastewater, and for air emissions. 
        In
order for a licensee to receive final release from further radioactive material license obligations after all of its mining and post-mining clean up have been completed,
approval must be issued by the TCEQ for Texas properties along with concurrence from the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and for properties in New Mexico by the United States Nuclear
Regulatory Commission. 
        In
addition to the costs and responsibilities associated with obtaining and maintaining permits and the regulation of production activities, we are subject to environmental laws and
regulations applicable to the ownership and operation of real property in general, including, but not limited to, the potential responsibility for the activities of prior owners and operators. 
 
 
  Reclamation and Restoration Costs and Bonding Requirements     
        At the conclusion of mining, a mine site is decommissioned and decontaminated, and each wellfield is restored and reclaimed.
Restoration involves returning the aquifer to its pre-mining use and removing evidence of surface disturbance. Restoration can be accomplished by flushing the ore zone with native ground
water and/or using reverse osmosis to remove ions, minerals and salts to provide clean water for reinjection to flush the ore zone. Decommissioning and decontamination entails dismantling and removing
the structures, equipment and materials used at the site during the mining and restoration activities. 
        The
Company is required by the State of Texas regulatory agencies to obtain financial surety relating to certain of its future restoration and reclamation obligations. The Company has a
combination of bank Letters of Credit (the "L/Cs") and performance bonds issued for the benefit of the Company to satisfy such regulatory requirements. The L/Cs were issued by Bank of America and the
performance bonds have been issued by United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G"). The L/Cs relate primarily to our operations at our Kingsville Dome and Vasquez projects and amounted to
$5,858,000, at December 31, 2011 and 2010. The L/Cs are collateralized in their entirety by certificates of deposit. 
        The
performance bonds were $2,834,000 on December 31, 2011 and 2010, and related primarily to our operations at Kingsville Dome and Rosita. USF&G has required that the Company
deposit funds collateralizing a portion of the bonds, and at December 31, 2011 the Company had made deposits to fully collateralize the bond amounts. At December 31, 2010 we had
approximately $884,000 deposited as cash collateral for the bonds 
        We
estimate that our actual reclamation liabilities for prior operations at Kingsville Dome, Vasquez and Rosita at December 31, 2011, are about $7.0 million of which the
net present value of $4.7 million is recorded as a liability on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2011. 
        The
Company's financial surety obligations are reviewed and revised periodically by the Texas regulators. 
9



 
Table of Contents
        In
New Mexico, surety bonding will be required before commencement of mining and will be subject to annual review and revision by the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the
State of New Mexico or the USEPA. 
 
 
  Water Rights     
        Water is essential to the ISR process. It is readily available in South Texas. In Texas, water is subject to capture, and we do not
have to acquire water rights through a state administrative process. In New Mexico, water rights are administered through the New Mexico State Engineer and can be subject to Indian tribal
jurisdictional claims. New water rights or changes in purpose or place of use or points of diversion of existing water rights, such as those in the San Juan and Gallup Basins where our properties are
located, must be obtained by permit from the State Engineer. Applications may be approved subject to conditions that govern exercise of the water rights. 
        Jurisdiction
over water rights becomes an issue in New Mexico when an Indian nation, such as the Navajo Nation, objects to the State Engineer's authority and claims tribal jurisdiction
over Indian Country. This issue may result in litigation between the Indian nation and the state, which may delay action on water right applications, and can require applications to the appropriate
Indian nation and continuing jurisdiction by the Indian nation over use of the water. The foregoing issues have arisen in connection with certain of our New Mexico properties. 
        In
New Mexico, we hold approved water rights to provide sufficient water to conduct mining at the Churchrock project and Section 24 for the Crownpoint project for the projected
life of these mines. We also hold two unprotested senior water rights applications that, when approved by the New Mexico State Engineer, would provide sufficient water for future extensions of the
Crownpoint project. 
 
 
  Competition     
        A primary area of competition is in the identification and acquisition of properties with high prospects of potential producible
reserves. We compete with multiple exploration companies for both properties as well as skilled personnel. There is global competition for uranium properties, capital, customers and the employment and
retention of qualified personnel. In the production and marketing of uranium, there are a number of producing entities, some of which are government controlled and all of which are significantly
larger and better capitalized than we are. Many of these organizations also have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and distribution resources than we have. 
        Our
uranium production also competes with uranium recovered from the de-enrichment of highly enriched uranium obtained from the dismantlement of United States and Russian
nuclear weapons and imports to the United States of uranium from the former Soviet Union and from the sale of uranium inventory held by the United States Department of Energy. In addition, there are
numerous entities in the market that compete with us for properties and are attempting to become licensed to operate ISR facilities. If we are unable to successfully compete for properties, capital,
customers or employees or alternative uranium sources, it could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. 
        With
respect to sales of uranium, the Company competes primarily based on price. We market uranium to utilities and commodity brokers and are in direct competition with supplies
available from various sources worldwide. We believe we compete with multiple operating companies in the mining and sale of uranium. 
 
 
  Available Information     
        Our Internet website address is www.uraniumresources.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports of Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are
available free of charge 
10



 
Table of Contents
through
our website under the tab "Investor Relations" as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also make
available on our website copies of materials regarding our corporate governance policies and practices, including our Code of Ethics, Nominating and Governance Committee Charter, Audit Committee
Charter and Compensation Committee Charter. You may also obtain a printed copy of the foregoing materials by sending a written request to: Uranium Resources, Inc., 405 State Highway 121 Bypass,
Building A, Suite 110, Lewisville, Texas 75067, Attention: Information Request or by calling 972.219.3330. The information found on our Internet website is not part of this or any report filed
or furnished to the SEC.  
 
    Item 1A.    Risk Factors.     
        The factors identified below are important factors (but not necessarily all of the important factors) that could cause actual results
to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company. Where any such forward-looking statement includes a statement of the assumptions or
bases underlying such forward-looking statement, we caution that, while we believe such assumptions or bases to be reasonable and make them in good faith, assumed facts or bases almost always vary
from actual results, and the differences between assumed facts or bases and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, in any forward-looking statement, the Company, or
its management, expresses an expectation or belief as to the future results, such expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and believed to have a reasonable basis, but there can be no
assurance that the statement of expectation or belief will result, or be achieved or accomplished. Taking into account the foregoing, the following are identified as important risk factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, the Company. 
 
 
  General Risks and Uncertainties     
        
Operations History—Planned Production Startup  
        In New Mexico, the Company completed a technical report on its Churchrock Section 8 project which was subjected to a peer review
by an independent engineering firm in order to validate the economic determinations and engineering plans. The feasibility study completed by the engineering firm is currently under review by the
Company. The Company's ability to begin plant construction and wellfield development in New Mexico in 2012 with production following in 2013 is subject to receipt of necessary approvals for access to
the property (See "See Item 2. Properties—New Mexico—Churchrock/Mancos"), availability of financing and activation of our permits and licenses. 
        In
South Texas, our Vasquez project was mined out in 2008 and is now being restored. In October 2008, Rosita production was shut-in due to depressed pricing and technical
challenges in the first new wellfield that made mining uneconomical. The decline in uranium prices throughout 2008 also led to a decision in October 2008 to defer new wellfield development at Rosita
and Kingsville Dome. Production continued in two existing wellfields at Kingsville Dome and was completed in July
2009. The Company does not plan to return to production in South Texas until uranium prices recover to levels that will insure that production, once resumed, is sustainable in the 300,000 to 500,000
pound range per year. 
11



 
Table of Contents
        
We are not producing uranium at this time. As a result, we currently have no sources of operating cash. If we cannot monetize certain existing Company assets, partner with
another company that has cash resources, find other means of generating revenue other than uranium production and/or have the ability to access additional sources of private or public capital we may
not be able to remain in business.  
        We will not commence production at our South Texas properties until uranium prices recover to levels that will insure that production,
once resumed, is sustainable in the 300,000 to 500,000 pound range per year. The Company's ability to begin plant construction and wellfield development in New Mexico in 2012 with production following
in 2013 is subject to the receipt of necessary approvals for access to the property (See Item 2. Properties—New Mexico—Churchrock/Mancos"), availability of financing and
activation of our permits and licenses. Until we begin uranium production we have no way to generate cash inflows unless we monetize certain Company assets or through financing activities. In
addition, our Vasquez project has been depleted of its economically recoverable reserves and our Rosita and Kingsville Dome projects have limited identified economically recoverable reserves. Our
future uranium production, cash flow and income are dependent upon the results of exploration as well as our ability to bring on new, as yet unidentified wellfields and to acquire and develop
additional reserves. We can provide no assurance that our properties will be placed into production or that we will be able to continue to find, develop, acquire and finance additional reserves. 
        We
will require additional financing in order to complete our plan of operations. We may not be able to obtain all of the financing we require. Our ability to obtain additional financing
is subject to a number of factors, including the market price of uranium, market conditions, investor acceptance of our business plan, and investor sentiment. These factors may make the timing,
amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive or unavailable to us. The detrimental effects of the weak economy and cessation of production could result in material adverse effects
on our business, revenues, operating results and prospects. 
        
Because we are not currently producing uranium we have limited liquidity.  
        We had $2.9 million in cash at year-end 2011. The Company currently has two available commitments to raise capital
in the equity markets. It has up to a $15 million commitment from Resource Capital Fund ("RCF") V L.P. and an At-The Market financing arrangement with BTIG LLC for an
additional $13 million. On March 9, 2012 the Company completed a $10 million sale of its common stock to RCF at a price of $0.9747 per share. While the Company believes these
financing sources will be sufficient to meet its liquidity requirements certain amounts of these financings will be dependent upon the Company's share price and market conditions and there can be no
assurance that such activities will result in the ability to raise the entire financing amount. We do project that with the cash on hand at February 29, 2012 and these financing sources that we
will be able to maintain our liquidity into 2013. At such time, additional sources of cash may be required to further maintain our liquidity. 
        
Our ability to function as an operating mining company will be dependent on our ability to mine our properties at a profit sufficient to finance further mining activities
and for the acquisition and development of additional properties. The volatility of uranium prices makes long-range planning uncertain and raising capital difficult.  
        In addition to ceasing all production, we have deferred activities for exploration, delineation and development of new wellfields at
all of our South Texas projects except for the Los Finados project. This decision limits our ability to be immediately ready to begin production should uranium prices improve suddenly. Our ability to
operate on a positive cash flow basis will be dependent on mining sufficient quantities of uranium at a profit sufficient to finance our operations and for the acquisition and development of
additional mining properties. Any profit will necessarily be dependent upon, and affected by, the long and short term market prices of uranium, which are subject to significant 
12



 
Table of Contents
fluctuation.
Uranium prices have been and will continue to be affected by numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include the demand for nuclear power, political and economic conditions in
uranium producing and consuming countries, uranium supply from secondary sources and uranium production levels and costs of production. A significant, sustained drop in uranium prices may make it
impossible to operate our business at a level that will permit us to cover our fixed costs or to remain in operation. 
        
Exploration and development of uranium properties are risky and subject to great uncertainties.  
        The exploration for and development of uranium deposits involves significant risks. It is impossible to ensure that the current and
future exploration programs on our existing properties will establish reserves. Whether a uranium ore body will be commercially viable depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to:
the particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure; uranium prices, which cannot be predicted and which have been highly volatile in the past; mining,
processing and transportation costs; perceived levels of political risk and the willingness of lenders and investors to provide project financing; labor costs and possible labor strikes; and
governmental regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land tenure, land use, importing and exporting materials, foreign exchange, environmental
protection, employment, worker safety, transportation, and reclamation and closure obligations. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of uranium
and there can be no assurance that any of our exploration stage properties will be commercially mineable or can be brought into production. 
        
Potential impact on the uranium markets of the developments at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in Japan.  
        The developments at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant following the earthquake and tsunami that struck parts of Japan in March
2011, created heightened concerns regarding the safety of nuclear power plants and the ability to safeguard the material used to fuel nuclear power plants. The potential impact on the perception of
the safety of nuclear power resulting from this event may cause increased volatility of uranium prices in the near to mid-term as well as uncertainty involving the continued use and
expansion of nuclear power in certain countries. A reduction in the current or the future generation of electricity from nuclear power could result in a reduced requirement for uranium to fuel nuclear
power plants which may negatively impact the Company in the future. 
        
The only market for uranium is nuclear power plants world-wide, and there are a limited number of customers.  
        We are dependent on a limited number of electric utilities that buy uranium for nuclear power plants. Because of the limited market for
uranium, a reduction in purchases of newly produced uranium by electric utilities for any reason (such as plant closings) would adversely affect the viability of our business. 
        
The price of alternative energy sources affects the demand for and price of uranium.  
        The attractiveness of uranium as an alternative fuel to generate electricity may to some degree be dependent on the relative prices of
oil, gas, coal, and hydro-electricity and the possibility of developing other low cost sources for energy. If the price of alternative energy sources decrease or new low-cost alternative
energy sources are developed, the demand for uranium could decrease, which may result in the decrease in the price of uranium. 
13



 
Table of Contents
        
Public acceptance of nuclear energy is uncertain.  
        Maintaining the demand for uranium at current levels and future growth in demand will depend upon acceptance of nuclear technology as a
means of generating electricity. The developments at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant may affect public acceptance of nuclear technology. Lack of public acceptance of nuclear technology would
adversely affect the demand for nuclear power and potentially increase the regulation of the nuclear power industry. 
        
We may not be able to mine a substantial portion of our uranium in New Mexico until a mill is built in New Mexico.  
        A substantial portion of our uranium in New Mexico lends itself most readily to conventional mining methods and may not be able to be
mined unless a mill is built in New Mexico. We have no immediate plans to build, nor are we aware of any third party's plan to build, a mill in New Mexico and there can be no guaranty that a mill will
be built. In the event that a mill is not built, a substantial portion of our uranium may not be able to be mined. Our inability to mine all or a portion of our uranium in New Mexico would have a
material adverse effect on future operations. 
        
We do not have a committed source of financing for the development of our New Mexico Properties, including the Churchrock Property, which is the property we expect to
develop first in New Mexico.  
        We do not have a committed source of financing for the development of our Churchrock property. There can be no assurance that we will
be able to obtain financing for this project or our other New Mexico projects. Our inability to develop the New Mexico properties would have a material adverse effect on our future operations. 
        
The Navajo Nation ban on uranium mining in Indian Country encompasses approximately 49% of our in place mineralized uranium
material on our properties in New Mexico and will adversely affect our ability to mine unless the ban is overturned.  
        In April 2005, the Navajo Nation Council passed the Diné Natural Resources Protection Act of 2005 prohibiting uranium
mining and processing on any sites within Indian Country as defined under 18 U.S.C. § 1151. We believe that the ban is beyond the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation. However, the ban
may prevent us from developing and operating our properties located in Indian Country. While the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit held, en banc, that the Company's Section 8
property in Churchrock, New Mexico is not Indian Country, approximately 49% of our in place mineralized uranium material is located in Indian Country. The term "Indian Country" is derived from
jurisdictional determinations in criminal law enforcement proceedings under 18 U.S.C. § 1151 and understood to encompass territory situated within Indian reservations, land owned by
Indian allottees and land within a dependent Indian community. 
        
The Navajo Nation's ban on uranium mining in Indian Country and opposition to the transportation of radioactive substances over and across Navajo Nation lands may have a
material adverse effect on our future operations.  
        In April 2005, the Navajo Nation Council passed the Diné Natural Resources Protection Act of 2005 prohibiting uranium
mining and processing on any sites within Indian Country as defined under 18 U.S.C. § 1151. We believe that the ban is beyond the jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation. However, the ban
may prevent us from developing and operating our properties located in Indian Country. While the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit held, en banc, that the Company's Section 8
property in Churchrock, New Mexico is not Indian Country, approximately 49% of our in place mineralized uranium material is located in Indian Country. The term "Indian Country" is derived from
jurisdictional determinations in criminal law enforcement proceedings under 18 U.S.C. § 1151 and 
14



 
Table of Contents
understood
to encompass territory situated within Indian reservations, land owned by Indian allottees and land within a dependent Indian community. Our ability to mine will be adversely affected
unless the ban is overturned. 
        In
February 2012, the Navajo Nation Council passed The Radioactive and Related Substances, Equipment, Vehicles, Persons and Materials Transportation Act of 2012 which would prohibit the
transport across Navajo Nation lands of any equipment, vehicles, persons or materials for the purposes of exploring for or mining, producing, processing or milling any uranium ore, yellowcake,
radioactive waste or other radioactive products on or under the surface of or adjacent to Navajo Nation lands unless the transporter has first (i) obtained Navajo Nation consent and a federal
grant of easement, (ii) consented to full subject matter and personal jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation, and (iii) agreed to terms and conditions regarding clean-up and
remediation. The Act would also require the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency to promulgate regulations implementing notice requirements, license fees, bonding requirements, route
restrictions and curfews for the transportation of radioactive substances over and across Navajo Nation lands or otherwise within Navajo Indian Country. The Company believes that the Act is not yet
effective and that even once effective, certain provisions of the Act may not be enforceable. If the Act does become effective and is enforceable, it could have a material adverse effect on our future
operations, including our ability to transport equipment and personnel to and from our properties and to transport resin from New Mexico to our processing facilities in Texas. 
        
Our operations are subject to environmental risks.  
        We are required to comply with environmental protection laws and regulations and permitting requirements, and we anticipate that we
will be required to continue to do so in the future. We have expended significant resources, both financial and managerial, to comply with environmental protection laws, regulations and permitting
requirements and we anticipate that we will be required to continue to do so in the future. The material laws and regulations within the U.S. that the Company must comply with include the Atomic
Energy Act, Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, or UMTRCA, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Federal Land Policy Management Act, National Park System Mining
Regulations Act, the State Mined Land Reclamation Acts or State Department of Environmental Quality regulations and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as applicable. 
        We
are required to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, as amended by UMTRCA, by applying for and maintaining an operating license from the NRC and the state of Texas. Uranium operations
must conform to the terms of such licenses, which include provisions for protection of human health and the environment from endangerment due to radioactive materials. The licenses encompass
protective measures consistent with the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. We intend to utilize specific employees and consultants in order to comply with and maintain our compliance with the
above laws
and regulations. Mining operations may be subject to other laws administered by the federal Environmental Protection Agency and other agencies. 
        The
uranium industry is subject not only to the worker health and safety and environmental risks associated with all mining businesses, but also to additional risks uniquely associated
with uranium mining and milling. The possibility of more stringent regulations exists in the areas of worker health and safety, storage of hazardous materials, standards for heavy equipment used in
mining or milling, the disposition of wastes, the decommissioning and reclamation of exploration, mining and in-situ sites, climate change and other environmental matters, each of which
could have a material adverse effect on the cost or the viability of a particular project. 
        We
cannot predict what environmental legislation, regulation or policy will be enacted or adopted in the future or how future laws and regulations will be administered or interpreted.
The recent trend 
15



 
Table of Contents
in
environmental legislation and regulation, generally, is toward stricter standards, and this trend is likely to continue in the future. This recent trend includes, without limitation, laws and
regulations relating to air and water quality, mine reclamation, waste handling and disposal, the protection of certain species and the preservation of certain lands. These regulations may require the
acquisition of permits or other authorizations for certain activities. These laws and regulations may also limit or prohibit activities on certain lands. Compliance with more stringent laws and
regulations, as well as potentially more vigorous enforcement policies or stricter interpretation of existing laws, may necessitate significant capital outlays, may materially affect our results of
operations and business or may cause material changes or delays in our intended activities. 
        Our
operations may require additional analysis in the future including environmental, cultural and social impact and other related studies. Certain activities require the submission and
approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers, and employees. We cannot
provide assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain all necessary permits that may be required to continue our operation or our exploration of our properties or, if feasible, to commence
development, construction or operation of mining facilities at such properties on terms which enable operations to be conducted at economically justifiable costs. If we are unable to obtain or
maintain permits or water rights for development of our properties or otherwise fail to manage adequately future environmental issues, our operations could be materially and adversely affected. 
        
Because mineral exploration and development activities are inherently risky, we may be exposed to environmental liabilities and other dangers. If we are unable to maintain
adequate insurance, or liabilities exceed the limits of our insurance policies, we may be unable to continue operations.  
        The business of mineral exploration and extraction involves a high degree of risk. Few properties that are explored are ultimately
developed into production. Unusual or unexpected formations, formation pressures, fires, power outages, labor disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and the inability to
obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labor are other risks involved in extraction operations and the conduct of exploration programs. Previous mining operations may have caused
environmental damage at certain of our properties. It may be difficult or impossible to assess the extent to which such damage was caused by us or by the activities of previous operators, in which
case, any indemnities and exemptions from liability may be ineffective. If any of our properties are found to have commercial quantities of uranium, we would be subject to additional risks respecting
any development and production activities. 
        Although
we carry liability insurance with respect to our mineral exploration operations, we may become subject to liability for damage to life and property, environmental damage,
cave-ins or hazards against which we cannot insure or against which we may elect not to insure because of cost or other business reasons. In addition, the insurance industry is undergoing
change and premiums are being increased. If we are unable to procure adequate insurance because of cost, unavailability or otherwise, we might be forced to cease operations. 
        
Our inability to obtain financial surety would threaten our ability to continue in business.  
        Future financial surety requirements to comply with federal and state environmental and remediation requirements and to secure
necessary licenses and approvals will increase significantly as future development and production occurs at our sites in Texas and New Mexico. The amount of the financial surety for each producing
property is subject to annual review and revision by regulators. We expect that the issuer of the financial surety instruments will require us to provide cash collateral equal to the face amount of
the bond to secure the obligation. In the event we are not able to raise, secure or generate sufficient funds necessary to satisfy these requirements, we will be unable to develop our 
16



 
Table of Contents
sites
and bring them into production, which inability will have a material adverse impact on our business and may negatively affect our ability to continue to operate. 
        
Competition from better-capitalized companies affects prices and our ability to acquire properties and personnel.  
        There is global competition for uranium properties, capital, customers and the employment and retention of qualified personnel. In the
production and marketing of uranium, there are a number of producing entities, some of which are government controlled and all of which are significantly larger and better capitalized than we are.
Many of these organizations also have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing and distribution resources than we have. 
        Our
uranium production also competes with uranium recovered from the de-enrichment of highly enriched uranium obtained from the dismantlement of United States and Russian
nuclear weapons and imports to the United States of uranium from the former Soviet Union and from the sale of uranium inventory held by the United States Department of Energy. In addition, there are
numerous entities in the market that compete with us for properties and are attempting to become licensed to operate ISR and/or underground mining facilities. If we are unable to successfully compete
for properties, capital, customers or employees or alternative uranium sources, it could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operations. 
        
Because we have limited capital, inherent mining risks pose a significant threat to us compared with our larger competitors.  
        Because we have limited capital, we are unable to withstand significant losses that can result from inherent risks associated with
mining, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, flooding, earthquake, interruptions due to weather conditions and other acts of nature which larger competitors could withstand. Such
risks could result in damage to or destruction of our infrastructure and production facilities, as well as to adjacent properties, personal injury, environmental damage and processing and production
delays, causing monetary losses and possible legal liability. 
        
Our business could be harmed if we lose the services of our key personnel.  
        Our business and mineral exploration programs depend upon our ability to employ the services of geologists, engineers and other
experts. In operating our business and in order to continue our programs, we compete for the services of professionals with other mineral exploration companies and businesses. In addition, several
entities have expressed an interest in hiring certain of our employees. Our ability to maintain and expand our business and continue our exploration programs may be impaired if we are unable to
continue to employ or engage those parties
currently providing services and expertise to us or identify and engage other qualified personnel to do so in their place. To retain key employees, we may face increased compensation costs, including
potential new stock incentive grants and there can be no assurance that the incentive measures we implement will be successful in helping us retain our key personnel. 
        
Approximately 25.1% of our Common Stock is controlled by three significant stockholders and management.  
        Approximately 21.2% of our common stock is controlled by three significant stockholders. In addition, our directors and officers are
the beneficial owners of approximately 3.9% of our common stock. This includes, with respect to both groups, shares that may be purchased upon the exercise of outstanding options. Such ownership by
the Company's principal shareholders, executive officers and directors may have the effect of delaying, deferring, preventing or facilitating a sale of the Company or a business combination with a
third party. 
17



 
Table of Contents
        
The availability for sale of a large amount of shares may depress the market price of our Common Stock.  
        As of December 31, 2011, 94,005,006 shares of our Common Stock were currently outstanding, all of which are freely transferable.
Approximately 3,974,000 shares of Common Stock are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. The availability for sale of a large amount of shares by any one or
several shareholders may depress the market price of our Common Stock and impair our ability to raise additional capital through the public sale of our Common Stock. We have no arrangement with any of
the holders of the foregoing shares to address the possible effect on the price of our Common Stock of the sale by them of their shares. 
        
Terms of subsequent financings may adversely impact our stockholders.  
        In order to finance our future production plans and working capital needs, we may have to raise funds through the issuance of equity or
debt securities. We currently have no authorized preferred stock. Depending on the type and the terms of any financing we pursue, stockholder's rights and the value of their investment in our Common
Stock could be reduced. For
example, if we have to issue secured debt securities, the holders of the debt would have a claim to our assets that would be prior to the rights of stockholders until the debt is paid. Interest on
these debt securities would increase costs and negatively impact operating results. If the issuance of new securities results in diminished rights to holders of our Common Stock, the market price of
our Common Stock could be negatively impacted. 
        
Shareholders would be diluted if we were to use Common Stock to raise capital.  
        As previously noted, we may need to seek additional capital in the future to satisfy our working capital requirements. This financing
could involve one or more types of securities including common stock, convertible debt, preferred stock or warrants to acquire common or preferred stock. These securities could be issued at or below
the then prevailing market price for our Common Stock. Any issuance of additional shares of our Common Stock could be dilutive to existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of
our Common Stock.  
 
    Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.     
        None. 
18




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Item 2.    Properties.     
 
    South Texas     
        We currently control three production properties and two exploration properties in the state of Texas. These properties are owned by
the Company's wholly owned subsidiary, URI, Inc. The Kingsville Dome, Rosita and Vasquez production properties and the Los Finados exploration property are shown in Figure No. 2.1 and
are described below. 
 
 
  Figure No 2.1. Texas Properties Location Map     



19



 
Table of Contents

 Kingsville Dome (Figure 2.2)  

         The Property.    The Kingsville Dome property consists of mineral leases from private landowners on about 2,434 gross and 2,227 net acres
located in
central Kleberg County, Texas. The leases provide for royalties based upon a percentage of uranium sales of 6.25% to 9.375%. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2000 to 2007, however we hold
most of these leases through our continuing restoration activities; and with a few minor exceptions, all the leases contain clauses that permit us to extend the leases not held by production by
payment of a per acre royalty ranging from $10 to $30. We have paid such royalties on all material acreage. Mineralization is found in the Goliad formation at depths of 600 to 750 feet. 
         Production History.    Initial production commenced in May 1988. From then until July 1999, we produced a total of 3.5 million
pounds. Production
was stopped in July 1999, because of depressed uranium prices.
We resumed production at Kingsville Dome in April 2006 and produced 94,100 pounds of uranium in 2006, 338,100 pounds in 2007, 252,000 pounds in 2008 and 56,000 pounds in 2009. We had no production in
2010 or 2011. We made approximately $159,000 in capital expenditures in 2009, $150,000 in 2010 and $141,000 in 2011. 
         Permitting Status.    A radioactive material license and underground injection control permit have been issued. As new areas are proposed
for
production, additional authorizations under the area permit are required. See "Legal Proceedings." 
        Restoration and Reclamation.    During 2011, we conducted restoration activities as required by the permits and licenses on this project
spending
approximately $940,000 on restoration activities. In 2010 and 2009, we spent approximately $903,000 and $963,000, respectively. Since we began our groundwater activities in 1998, we have processed and
cleaned approximately 2.5 billion gallons of groundwater at the Kingsville Dome project. 
20



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Figure No. 2.2. Kingsville Dome Property     




 Rosita (Figure 2.3)  

         The Property,    The Rosita property consists of mineral leases from private landowners on about 3,377 gross and net acres and the Rosita
South property
consists of mineral leases from private land owners on about 1,795 gross acres and 1,479 net acres located in north-central Duval County, Texas. The leases provide for sliding scale royalties based on
a percentage of uranium sales. Royalty percentages on average increase from 6.25% up to 18.25% when uranium prices reach $80.00 per pound. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2015.
We are holding these leases by payment of rental fees ranging from $10 to $30 per acre. Mineralization is found in the Goliad Formation at depths of 125 to 350 feet. 
         Production History.    Initial production commenced in 1990. From then until July 1999, URI produced a total of 2.64 million pounds.
Production
was stopped in July of 1999 because of depressed uranium prices. Production from a new wellfield at Rosita wellfield was begun in June 2008. However, technical difficulties that raised the cost of
production coupled with a sharp drop in uranium prices led to the decision to shut-in this wellfield in October 2008 after 10,200 pounds were produced. We had no production from Rosita in
2009, 2010 or 2011. 
        Our
capital expenditures were approximately $167,000, $137,000 and $40,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
21



 
Table of Contents
         Restoration and Reclamation.    We are conducting restoration and reclamation activities at this project and are currently in
stabilization in our first
two Production Areas. During 2010, our primary groundwater activity consisted of collecting groundwater samples throughout the year for stability testing. We spent $0 in 2011 and 2010 and
approximately $247,000 on restoration activities in 2009. Since we began our groundwater activities in 2000, we have processed and cleaned approximately 1.3 billion gallons of groundwater at
the Rosita project. 
         Permitting Status.    A radioactive material license and an underground injection control permit have been issued for the Rosita property.
Production
could resume in areas already included in existing Production Area Authorizations. As new areas are proposed for production, additional authorizations under the permit will be required. 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.3. Rosita Property     




 Vasquez (Figure 2.4)  

         The Property.    We have a mineral lease on 872 gross and net acres located in southwestern Duval County, in South Texas. The primary term
expired in
February 2008; however, we held the lease by production and are currently in restoration. The lease provides for royalties based upon 6.25% of uranium sales below $25.00 per pound and royalty rate
increases on a sliding scale up to 10.25% for uranium sales occurring at or above $40.00 per pound. Mineralization is found in the Oakville formation at depths of 200 to 250 feet. 
22




 










Table of Contents 
         Production History.    We commenced production from this property in October 2004. Our capital expenditures in 2011 were approximately
$97,000. We had
approximately $78,000 in capital expenditures at Vasquez in 2010. We had approximately $194,000 in capital expenditures at Vasquez in 2009. We had no production from Vasquez in 2011, 2010, and 2009. 
         Restoration and Reclamation.    We are conducting ongoing restoration and reclamation activities at this project and have spent $590,000,
$470,000 and
$591,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively for such activities. Since the commencement of groundwater restoration activities at the end of 2007, we have treated approximately 365 million
gallons of groundwater. 
        Permitting Status.    All of the required permits for this property have been received. 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.4. Vasquez Property     



23



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Los Finados Project (Figure 2.5)     
        On December 30, 2010, we entered into a three year lease option agreement with a large Texas landowner for the exploration of
53,524 acres in Kenedy County, Texas. The agreement includes an option to lease the acreage for future uranium production. 
        The
property is located within the prolific South Texas uranium district which has been a major producer of uranium for half a century. Situated near uranium mining operations that
produce from the Goliad Formation, the property also hosts several oil and gas fields and is bisected by a major depositional channel system. These provide the geologic, stratigraphic, and geochemical
components for uranium deposition and water-saturated host sand with good rock permeability. Locally, water samples taken from a number of wells on the property contain levels of uranium or uranium
decay products that indicate anomalously high concentrations of uranium in nearby rock. 
        The
lease option agreement included a $1.0 million fee paid at signing. It requires a minimum exploration obligation of one hundred exploration wells or $1.0 million
investment in the first year, an additional two hundred exploration wells or $1.5 million investment in the second year and, in the third
year, an additional two hundred exploration wells or $2.0 million investment. Investment or drilling in excess of the minimum requirement in any year counts toward the following year's
requirements. The uranium mining lease can be acquired at any time at a cost of $200 per acre. Royalties on uranium sales are determined by a sliding scale ranging from 10% to 20.5% based on the price
received. In a separate letter agreement, the parties established guidelines for securing a major partner for the exploration projects, which is a condition for exercise of the lease option. 
        In
May 2011, the Company entered into an exploration agreement with Cameco Texas, Inc. ("CTI"), a subsidiary of Cameco (NYSE: CCJ) on the Los Finados project. The agreement with
CTI also includes a three phase exploration program. We completed Phase I of the project in November, 2011 and the Company and CTI committed to Phase II of the program and began drilling
under this phase in December, 2011. Phase II drilling is expected to be completed in mid-2012 and after the completion of Phase II, CTI may within 60 days elect to
continue to the next phase of the exploration program. Under this agreement, CTI will fund the majority of the exploration costs and can earn up to a 70% interest in the project in consideration for
their investment. Upon execution of the exploration agreement, CTI paid the Company $300,000. 
        During
the first year, or Phase I of exploration activities, a total of 19 exploration boreholes were completed totaling 24,560 feet of drilling. Based on the first year, or
Phase I, results, the Phase II exploration drilling program is currently underway to continue assessing the exploration lease area. 
24



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Figure No. 2.5. Los Finados Property     



25




 










Table of Contents 

 Marshall Exploration Property (figure 2.6).  

        The Marshall Property is a Goliad and Oakville prospect consisting of 2,467 gross and net acres. It is located in Duval and McMullen
counties, Texas. During 2008, we drilled 280 exploration holes and discovered significant mineralization. Further evaluation will need to be conducted to determine if this property can be mined using
ISR methods. 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.6. Marshall Exploration Property     



26



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  New Mexico     
         General.    We have various interests in properties located in New Mexico, these properties are owned by the Company's wholly owned
subsidiary, Hydro
Resources, Inc. ("HRI") (Figure 2.7). We have fee lands, patented and unpatented mining claims, mineral leases and some surface leases. We have spent $13.3 million to date on
permitting for New Mexico. Additional expenditures will be required and could be material. We are unable to estimate the amount. We expect that these costs will be incurred over multiple years. 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.7. Location of New Mexico Properties     




 Churchrock/Mancos (Figure 2.8)  

         The Property.    The Churchrock project encompasses about 3,458 gross and net acres. The properties are located in McKinley County, New
Mexico and
consist of three parcels, known as Section 8, Section 17 and Mancos. None of these parcels lies within the area generally recognized as constituting the Navajo Reservation. See
"Legal Proceedings." 
        The
Churchrock Section 8 Uranium property is about 10 miles northeast of Gallup, NM. It north of Highway 40 on NM Highway 566. The land is best described as an open, slightly
sloping canyon surrounded to the north, east, and west by talus slopes grading to table land or mesa. 
27



 
Table of Contents
        The
Company's access is expected to be by the proposed construction of a highway turnout from Highway 566. Due to our planned increases in construction and operational traffic, this
turnout will provide safe access to the Project. This proposal has been submitted to the New Mexico Department of Transportation, the Navajo Tribal Nation, and the State Land Office and requires
approval of rights-of-way for the turnout by the Land Office, Navajo Nation and Department of the Interior. Construction of the turnout will begin after the appropriate
approvals are obtained. If this approval is not obtained, the Company will explore alternative means of access. Access to the Mancos project is via 4-wheel drive ranch roads west of State
Highway 566. 
        We
hold an NRC license for and own the mineral estate in fee for the 200 acres located in NE 1/4 and the SW 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of
Section 17, T16N, R16W. The balance of the 440 acres of mineral Section 17, T16N,R16W is also held in fee. In Section 8, T16N, R16W, we own the SE 1/4 in fee and
hold the minerals in the rest of the section with 26 unpatented federal mining claims (UNC1A thru UNC 26). For the Mancos Property, we own the minerals in Section 13, T16N, R17W, in fee, the
minerals in the NW 1/4 of Section 7, T16N, R16W, in fee and hold the minerals in the E 1/2 of Section 12, T16N, R17W, with 20 unpatented federal mining
claims (KP1A thru KP5A, KP19, KP36, 121617-14A thru 121617-18A, 121617-20A thru 121617-23A and 121617-32A thru 121617-35A). The
federal unpatented mining claims are all held through the payment of a $140.00 assessment fee each year on each claim. 
        Mineralization
occurs in the Westwater Member of the Morrison Formation at depths of 800 to 1700 feet. 
        The
surface estate on Section 17, Mancos Section 13 and Mancos Section 7 is owned by the United States Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation. On those
sections we have royalty obligations ranging from 5% to 61/4% and a 2% overriding royalty obligation to the Navajo Nation for surface use agreements. The total royalties on
Section 8 depend on the sales' price of uranium. Aggregate royalties are potentially as much as 39.25% at the current price of uranium. 
         Development Plan.    We anticipate that Churchrock will be the first of our New Mexico properties we will develop. We spent about $59,000,
$139,000 and
$219,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for permitting activities and land holding costs. In December 2006, we entered into a joint venture with Itochu to jointly develop this property and in
March 2009 the joint venture was terminated. 
        Water Rights.    The State Engineer approved our water rights application in October 1999 and granted us sufficient water rights for the
life of
Churchrock. 
         Permitting Status.    We have the radioactive material license for Section 8. This license is subject to the continuing proceedings
described
under "Legal Proceedings." With respect to the UIC permits, see "Legal Proceedings." We do not plan to
pursue permits for Mancos at this time. 
28



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Figure No. 2.8. Churchrock / Mancos Property Mineral Ownership     




 Crownpoint (Figure 2.9)  

         The Property.    The Crownpoint properties are located in the San Juan Basin, 22 miles northeast of our Churchrock deposits and 35 miles
northeast of
Gallup, New Mexico, adjacent to the town of Crownpoint, New Mexico. The properties consist of 640 gross and 556 net acres. We hold the minerals in the NW 1/4 of Section 9, T17N,
R13W with 9 unpatented federal mining claims (CP-1 thru CP9) and the minerals in the SW 1/4 of Section 24, T17N, R13W with 10 unpatented federal mining claims
(CP-10 thru CP-19). In the SE 1/4 of Section 24, T17N, R13W we own in fee a 40% interest in the minerals on approximately 140 acres and hold 100% of the
minerals on 20 additional acres with two unpatented federal mining claims (Consol I and Consol II). In the NE 1/4 of Section 25, T17N, R13W we hold the minerals with eight
unpatented federal mining claims (Hydro-1 thru Hydro-8). The federal unpatented mining claims are held through the payment of a $140.00 assessment fee each year on each claim.
Access is via paved road from State Highway 371, through the town of Crownpoint to Church Road to the main gate of the property. 
29



 
Table of Contents
        Mineralization
is found in the Westwater Member of the Morrison Formation at a depth of from 2,100 to 2,300 feet. Three pilot shafts were commenced on the property in the early 1980's
but were never completed. Surface facilities dating from those activities including buildings and their associated electrical/water infrastructure are still in-place and are currently used
as offices and storage facilities. 
         Development Plan.    We spent about $9,000, $3,000 and $3,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for permitting activities and land
holding costs. 
         Water Rights.    The State Engineer approved our water rights application in 2004 and granted us sufficient water rights for ISR
operations for the life
of Crownpoint Section 24 mining. We have two additional pending applications for appropriations of water, which give us the first two "positions in line" on the hearings list for the San Juan
Basin. These additional pending water rights applications may involve a claim of jurisdiction by the Navajo Nation. 
         Permitting Status.    The surface estate on Section 19 and 29 is owned by the United States Government and held in trust for the
Navajo Nation
and may be subject to the same jurisdictional dispute with respect to the UIC permit as for Section 8 and 17 in Churchrock. 
30



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Figure No. 2.9. Crownpoint Property Mineral Ownership     



31




 










Table of Contents 

 Nose Rock (Figure 2.10)  

        The Nose Rock property consists of approximately 6,400 acres and is located about 12 miles northeast of Crownpoint, New Mexico. The
minerals are held in fee on Sections 10, 11, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 29, 30 and 31 all in T19N, R11W. Access to the property is via a 41/2 mile private paved road north of Tribal
Road 9. The property was developed by Philips Uranium Corporation in the early 1980's and includes two circular concrete-lined shafts that have been completed to a depth of 3,300 feet. Both shafts
have been plugged at surface and just above the Westwater. There is no usable surface infrastructure on site. Mineralization occurs in the Westwater Member of the Morrison Formation. 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.10. Nose Rock Property Mineral Ownership     



32



 
Table of Contents

 West Largo (Figure 2.11)  

        The West Largo property is comprised of six contiguous sections of land located in McKinley County, New Mexico about 21 miles north of
the town of Milan, New Mexico and about three miles west of State Highway 509. Access is via a nine-mile 4-wheel drive road from State Highway 509. The minerals on
sections 17, 19, 21 and 29 T15N, R10W are held in fee and the minerals on sections 20 and 28 T15N, R10W are held by 75 unpatented federal mining claims (ID21 thru ID91 and ID95 thru
ID98). The federal unpatented mining claims are held through the payment of a $140.00 assessment fee each year on each claim. 
        Mineralization
occurs in the Westwater Member of the Morrison Formation at depths ranging from 2,000 to 2,750 feet depending on surface topography. Over 1,000 drill holes were used to
define the mineralization in the late 1970's and early 1980's. Other than this exploration drilling, there has been no development on this property. 
 
 
  Figure 2.11. West Largo Property Mineral Ownership     



33



 
Table of Contents

 Roca Honda (Figure 2.12)  

        The Roca Honda property is comprised of four sections of land totaling approximately 2,560 acres located about 4 miles northwest of the
town of San Mateo in McKinley County, New Mexico. Sections 13, 15 and 17, T13N, R8W are held in fee and Section 8, T13N, R8W is held by 36 unpatented federal mining claims (Roca Honda 55
thru Roca Honda 63, Roca Honda 82 thru Roca Honda 90, Roca Honda 109 thru 117 and Roca Honda 136 thru Roca Honda 144). The federal unpatented mining claims are held through the payment of a $140.00
assessment for each year on each claim. The property is accessed over various 4-wheel drive ranch roads north of State Highway 605. 
        Mineralization
occurs in the Westwater Member of the Morrison Formation at depths ranging from 1,700 on Section 17 to over 3,300 feet in Section 13. In the late 1970's and
early 1980's, various operators drilled 620 exploration holes on the property. In the late 1980's, Kerr-McGee sank a shaft to a depth of 1,475 feet on Section 17 to develop the
property, then known as the Lee Mine. The shaft was stopped short of the ore zone and the mine closed down when uranium prices fell in 1983. There is no useable infrastructure on surface. 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.12. Roca Honda Property Mineral Ownership     



34



 
Table of Contents
         Potential ISR and OSL areas (Figures 2.13 & 2.14).    Several areas in T13N R 9 W and T14 N R 10W are being considered for
application of
ISR methods (Sections 13 and 17 of T13N R9W and Sections 5 and 27 of T14 N R 10W). All land described is owned in fee. 
        In
November 2008, we received an exploration permit from the New Mexico Mining and Minerals Division on Section 13. The permit allowed URI to drill up to ten holes for the purpose
of extracting core samples. The drilling was completed in September 2010, and we received preliminary results from a third-party laboratory analysis which demonstrated low organic carbons. This result
indicates that some of the 860,000 pounds of in-place mineralized material at this property may be amenable to ISR mining. This property is not yet licensed or permitted. Although further
leaching studies will be required to establish recovery percentages in a full scale mining scenario, we do not currently plan such additional work until after the completion of the feasibility study
currently underway on our Churchrock/Crownpoint ISR project. 
        Two
other sections in T14N R10W (Sections 23 and 25) have been the site of extensive development and mining in the past and could provide targets for the application of Old
Stope Leaching operations. Mineral on these two sections is owned in fee. 
35




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  Figure No. 2.13. West Ambrosia area     



36



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Figure 2.14. T13N R9W Area     



 
 
  Insurance     
        Our properties are covered by various types of insurance including property and casualty, liability and umbrella coverage. We have not
experienced any material uninsured or under insured losses related to our properties in the past and believe that sufficient insurance coverage is in place. 
 
 
  Reclaimed Properties     
        We have completed production and groundwater restoration on our Benavides and Longoria projects in South Texas. We completed the final
stages of surface reclamation on these projects and received full and final release for these sites in 1999. 
        We
acquired the Section 17 leases in the New Mexico Churchrock district from United Nuclear Corporation who had conducted underground mining for uranium on Section 17 and
had reclaimed these properties. In the acquisition, we assumed any liability of United Nuclear Corporation for any remaining remediation work that might be required. The New Mexico Energy Minerals and
Natural Resources Department has not determined what, if any, additional remediation would be required under the New Mexico Mining Act. If more remediation work is required, we believe it would not
involve material expenditures as required by the New Mexico Energy Minerals and Natural Resources Department regulation. 
37




 










Table of Contents 
        In January 2008, the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency notified the Company of their analysis that indicated potentially uranium contaminated
materials present on the Churchrock Section 17 mine site. In response, the Company has performed a comprehensive characterization of the Churchrock Site at Section 17 and lands adjacent
to the site area and completed the field work during the spring/summer of 2009. This study was completed in September 2009 and we believe that any off-site mine-related impacts
at Section 17 and adjacent lands are minor. The jurisdiction of the Navajo Nation to require additional remediation at the Section 17 site, and their criteria for further remediation,
are unknown. 
        See
"Legal Proceedings" for a description of the status of the Navajo EPA letter and UNC/GE Demand for Indemnity in New Mexico. 
 
    Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.     
 
    ENDAUM Litigation     
        Eastern Navajo Dine Against Uranium Mining ("ENDAUM"), its individual members, Larry King and Christine Smith, Plaintiffs, v. David
Martin, Secretary of the Environment and the New Mexico Environment Department, Defendants, Hydro Resources Inc., Defendant-Intervenor. Case No. D-101-CV-2011-02270. First Judicial District
Court , County of Santa Fe, State of New Mexico. Plaintiff's Complaint for Declaratory Judgment and Injunctive Relief claims that the Secretary of the Environment and the Environment Department
misinterpret the regulations governing ground water discharge permits issued persuant to the New Mexico Water Quality Act and that defendants have no authority under the Water Quality Act to accept
HRI's DP-558 discharge permit application as a permit renewal. ENDAUM claims that HRI's existing DP-558 is no longer valid and is not in timely renewal contrary to the position taken by the
Environment Department. If ENDAUM's challenge was successful, HRI would be required to apply for and obtain a new Discharge Permit before commencing any discharge at its Section 8 property. We have
intervened in this matter and have challenged the plaintiffs' standing. A hearing on ENDAUM's motion for summary judgment was held on March 8, 2012. The Court ruled that the summary judgment
motion was not ripe for review at this time because no construction or activity had taken place on Section 8. A hearing on the Motion for Preliminary Injunction is scheduled for April 2,
2012. We are actively defending this matter. 
 
 
  Dispute over Kleberg County Settlement Agreement     
        In February 2007, Kleberg County, Texas adopted a resolution alleging violations of its December 2004 Settlement Agreement with the
Company and authorizing outside counsel to bring suit against the Company to force it to cease mineral production unless the Company promptly resolved the matter to the County's satisfaction. The
County disputes the Company's interpretation of the December 2004 Settlement Agreement as to the level of groundwater restoration the Company agreed to achieve in Kingsville Dome Production Areas 1
and 2. The Company believes it is in full compliance and engaged in a mediation of this dispute in April, 2007 and, again, in September, 2007. The parties could not reach an agreement. The County,
again, threatened suit to force cessation of mining activity in the Kingsville Dome mine. On September 28, 2007, after negotiations stalled, the Company filed suit against the County in the
105th Judicial District Court, Kleberg County, Texas for declaratory relief interpreting the Settlement Agreement and for recovery of the Company's legal fees and costs of the suit. 
        The
County answered the suit with a general denial and there was no activity in the case until May 2009. The Company continued its mining activity. In May 2009, the County filed a
counterclaim alleging the Company had breached the terms of the December, 2004 Settlement Agreement with Kleberg County and asked for a Declaratory Judgment and injunctive relief ordering the Company
to
cure various alleged breaches of that agreement and asked that the County be awarded its legal fees and costs of suit. The County filed a motion for partial summary judgment asking the court to
declare 
38



 
Table of Contents
that
the Company had breached the contract. The court denied the motion for summary judgment and set the case for trial. The Court granted the Company's exceptions to the form and substance of the
County's pleading and the Court ordered the County to correct its counter claim. The County replead its allegation and sued under a theory that is both novel and unsupported in Texas law, that is,
opportunistic breach. The Company filed exceptions to the new pleadings because the County has not cured the defects in its previous pleadings and seeks remedies not available to the County in this
case. The Company filed a motion for partial summary judgment on the theory of disgorgement of profits and the court granted the Company's motion. The Company filed an additional motion for summary
judgment regarding the failure to plead the element of harm and to connect any element of causation of harm to the County's alleged breaches of contract. In addition, the Company filed a plea to the
jurisdiction of the court as the County has failed to plead any authority or ownership interest which would entitle it to claim damages, that is on those parts of the County's pleading that include
claim for injunctive relief to halt mining, and no-evidence summary judgment as to the County's claim of harm to the general public and the economy of Kleberg County. 
        The
County has answered the suit and has asserted counterclaims alleging the Company had violated the December, 2004 Settlement Agreement with Kleberg County and asked for injunctive
relief ordering the Company to cure various alleged breaches of that agreement and asked that the County be awarded its legal fees and costs of suit. The County's motion for partial summary judgment
was denied by the court and the case was set for trial. The case proceeded to trial on December 12, 2011, and has encountered multiple delays. It is anticipated that it will take at least one
full week to complete the trial once it is resumed, however the recommencement date has not been set at this time. Despite several attempts to reach an agreement with the County the Company does not
believe it is likely that a settlement will occur. 
        The
Company continues to defend this matter as baseless and, to support the Company's claim for declaratory relief and a judgment for attorney's fees against the County. The Company
continues to defend the case vigorously. 
 
 
  Kingsville Dome Production Disposal Well Permit Renewals and Production Area Authorization 3     
        After an August 2005 hearing, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality ("TCEQ") voted unanimously on February 22, 2006 to
renew the Company's disposal well permits, WDW-247 and WDW-248, and to issue Kingsville Dome Production Area Authorization 3 ("PA 3"). A citizens group and a Ms. Garcia
filed in the 201st Judicial District Court, Travis County, Texas for judicial review of the TCEQ action in June 2006. The Texas Attorney General answered in defense of TCEQ and the Company
intervened to defend the TCEQ's action granting the permit renewals and production area authorization. The two cases have been consolidated; a judge has been assigned; and, in June 2007, the TCEQ
submitted the administrative record to the court for review. 
        In
June 2007, an attorney claiming to have been newly engaged by a plaintiff, Ms. Garcia, notified all parties that Garcia wished to withdraw from the litigation and requested
that no further action be taken and that her action be dismissed. On June 27, 2007, Ms. Garcia's original counsel moved to appoint a guardian or representative for Ms. Garcia. The
Company challenged the sufficiency of the request for appointment of a guardian or representative for Ms. Garcia; and Ms. Garcia's original counsel set his motion for hearing in August
2007. Before the hearing date, original counsel for Ms. Garcia, tentatively rescheduled the hearing for October 24, 2007 and then canceled that hearing date. No further action on the
matter has been scheduled; and mining in Production Area 3 and the rest of the Company's Kingsville Dome mines has ceased, leaving the entire mine site in the process of groundwater restoration. 
        The
permits and production area authorization issued by TCEQ remain effective unless overturned by a reviewing Court. 
39



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  Navajo EPA letter and UNC/GE Demand for Indemnity     
        By letter dated January 23, 2008, the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency ("NNEPA") sent a document dated September
2007 titled "Radiological Scoping Survey Summary Report for the Old Churchrock Mine Site" ("Survey Report") to our subsidiary, Hydro Resources, Inc. ("HRI") and United Nuclear Corporation and
General Electric ("UNC/GE"). The Survey Report was reportedly prepared in response to a claim by NNEPA against HRI and UNC/GE for potential liability for uranium contaminated materials present on
HRI's Churchrock Mine Site. NNEPA requested HRI and UNC/GE to undertake a "comprehensive and detailed characterization" of HRI's Churchrock Mine Site and adjacent lease areas, as recommended in the
Survey Report. 
        By
letter dated January 29, 2008, UNC and GE, pursuant to a Supplemental Purchase Agreement and Guarantee, demanded that HRI and the Company defend and indemnify it for all loss,
cost, expense, liabilities and obligations that have been or will be incurred or sustained by GE and UNC with respect to the request asserted by NNEPA. 
        In
response HRI/URI along with UNC and GE completed a site assessment of the Old Churchrock Mine Site for potential contamination from historic mining. In August 2009, the Company
submitted to NNEPA a site characterization report prepared by a third-party environmental consulting firm, Intera, Inc. This assessment concluded that the conditions at the Old Churchrock Mine
Site did not result in any significant off-site impact related to the prior mining activity. NNEPA is presently evaluating the site characterization report. In the event that a
governmental authority issues a formal Administrative Order or files a lawsuit, the Company and UNC will be considered to have reserved their respective rights and defenses to the indemnity
claims, and will immediately seek and attempt to resolve, in good faith, any areas of dispute which may exist at that time. 
 
 
  Other     
        The Company is subject to periodic inspection by certain regulatory agencies for the purpose of determining compliance by the Company
with the conditions of its licenses. In the ordinary course of business, minor violations may occur; however, these are not expected to result in material expenditures or have any other material
adverse effect on the Company.  
 
    Item 4.    Mine Safety Disclosures.     
        Not Applicable. 
 
 
  GLOSSARY OF CERTAIN URANIUM INDUSTRY TERMS     











 claim
 
A claim is a 20 acre tract of land, the right to mine of which is held under the federal General Mining Law of 1872 and applicable local laws.


 concentrates
 
 A product from a uranium mining and milling facility, which is commonly referred to as uranium concentrate or
U3O8.


 conversion
 
 A process whereby uranium concentrates are converted into forms suitable for use as fuel in commercial nuclear
reactors.


 cut-off grade
 
 Cut-off grade is determined by the following formula parameters: estimates over the relevant period of mining
costs, ore treatment costs, general and administrative costs, refining costs, royalty expenses, process and refining recovery rates and uranium prices.


 gross acres
 
 Total acres under which we have mineral rights and can mine for uranium.




40



 
Table of Contents











 Indian Country
 
 A term derived from jurisdictional determinations in criminal law enforcement proceedings under 18 U.S.C. § 1151 and
understood to encompass territory situated within Indian reservations, land owned by Indian allottees and land within a dependent Indian community.


 in-situ recovery (ISR)
 
 Groundwater fortified with oxygen and other solubilizing agents is pumped into a permeable ore body causing the
uranium contained in the ore to dissolve. The resulting solution is pumped to the surface. The fluid-bearing uranium is then circulated to an ion exchange column on the surface where uranium is extracted from the fluid onto resin beads. The fluid is
then reinjected into the ore body. When the ion exchange column's resin beads are loaded with uranium, they are removed and flushed with a salt-water solution, which strips the uranium from the beads. This leaves the uranium in slurry, which is then
dried and packaged for shipment as uranium powder, or yellowcake.


 mineralized material
 
 A mineralized body which has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling to
support a sufficient tonnage and average grade. Such a deposit does not qualify as a reserve, until a comprehensive evaluation based upon unit cost, grade, recoveries, and other material factors conclude legal and economic feasibility.


 net acres
 
 Actual acres under lease which may differ from gross acres when fractional mineral interests are not
leased.


 old stope leaching
 
 Old stope leaching involves the pumping of ground water, through stopes, drifts, and other flooded underground
mine workings of previously conventionally mined areas to remove the residual and soluble post mining uranium values. The resulting uranium-bearing ground water is pumped to the surface for uranium removal and then is re-circulated directly into the
mine workings or into injection wells that are completed in or near to the workings. This re-circulation of the same ground water is repeated, until the residual uranium in the old underground mine is depleted.


 ore
 
 Naturally occurring material from which a mineral or minerals of economic value can be extracted at a reasonable
profit.


 probable reserves
 
 Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for
proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume
continuity between points of observation


 proven reserves
 
 Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or
drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well defined that size, shape, depth and
mineral content of reserves are well-established.


 reclamation
 
 Reclamation involves the returning of the surface area of the mining and wellfield operating areas to a condition
similar to pre-mining.




41



 
Table of Contents











 recoverable reserves
 
 Reserves that are either proven or probable, are physically minable and can be profitably recovered under conditions specified at
the time of the appraisal, based on a positive feasibility study. The calculation of minable reserves is adjusted for potential mining recovery and dilution.


 reserve
 
 That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the
reserve determination.


 restoration
 
 Restoration involves returning an aquifer to a condition consistent with our pre-mining use. The restoration of
wellfield can be accomplished by flushing the ore zone with native ground water and/or using reverse osmosis to remove ions to provide clean water for reinjection to flush the ore zone.


 roll front
 
 The configuration of sedimentary uranium ore bodies as they appear within the host sand. A term that depicts an
elongate uranium ore mass that is "C" shaped.


 shut in
 
 A term that refers to ceasing production or the absence of production.


 shut-in royalty
 
 A lease clause permitting the extension of a lease not held by production by payment of a per acre
royalty.


 spot price
 
 The price at which uranium may be purchased for delivery within one year.


 surety obligations
 
 A bond, letter of credit, or financial guarantee posted by a party in favor of a beneficiary to ensure the
performance of its or another party's obligations, e.g., reclamation bonds, workers' compensation bond, or guarantees of debt instruments.


 tailings
 
 Waste material from a mineral processing mill after the metals and minerals of a commercial nature have been
extracted; or that portion of the ore which remains after the valuable minerals have been extracted.


 uranium or uranium concentrates
 
 U3O8 or triuranium octoxide.


 U3O8
 
 Triuranium octoxide equivalent contained in uranium concentrates, referred to as uranium concentrate.


 waste
 
 Barren rock in a mine, or uranium in a rock formation that is too low in grade to be mined and milled at a
profit.


 yellowcake
 
 Uranium in powder form, the end-result of the ISR or conventional minng process.




42




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART II     
 
    Item 5.    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.     
        From April 12, 2007 to July 1, 2010 our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "URRE."
Effective, July 2, 2010, our listing was transferred to the NASDAQ Capital Market because we had failed to regain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price by July 7, 2010,
and we were granted until January 4, 2011 to demonstrate compliance with the minimum $1.00 bid price requirement of The NASDAQ Capital Market. In October 2010, we regained compliance with the
$1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. 
        On
January 17, 2012 the Company received notice from NASDAQ that it had failed to maintain compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price for 30 consecutive business days.
The Company has a been provided a "compliance period" of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the applicable NASDAQ requirements. The Company will regain compliance with the minimum bid
requirement if at any time before July 16, 2012, the bid price for the Company's common stock closes at $1.00 per share or above for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. In the event the
Company does not regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule by July 16, 2012, NASDAQ will provide the Company with written notification that its common stock is subject to delisting from
the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Company may appeal NASDAQ's determination to delist its common stock at that time. 
        The
following table sets forth the high and low bid prices for our common stock as reported on the applicable markets for the periods indicated: 
















 
 
Common Stock 
 


Fiscal Quarter Ending



 
High 
 
Low 
 


 December 31, 2011
 
$
1.39
 
$
0.56
 


 September 30, 2011
 
 
1.80
 
 
0.68
 


 June 30, 2011
 
 
2.18
 
 
1.50
 


 March 31, 2011
 
 
3.51
 
 
1.53
 


 December 31, 2010
 
 
3.75
 
 
1.14
 


 September 30, 2010
 
 
1.38
 
 
0.39
 


 June 30, 2010
 
 
0.76
 
 
0.40
 


 March 31, 2010
 
 
0.86
 
 
0.69
 




        As
of December 31, 2011, 94,005,006 shares of our common stock were outstanding. As of February 29, 2012 there were 114 holders of record. 
 
 
  Dividends     
        We have never paid any cash or other dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable
future. 
 
 
  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans     
        The following table sets forth information as of December 31, 2011 regarding equity compensation to the Company's employees,
officers and directors under equity compensation plans. We have no plans 
43



 
Table of Contents
under
which equity securities are authorized for issuance to non-employees (including lenders, suppliers, customers, advisors or consultants) in exchange for goods and services. 



















Plan category



 
Number of shares
issuable under
outstanding options
and rights 
 
Weighted average
exercise price 
 
Number of shares
available for
future issuance 
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
 
 
3,805,230
 
$
2.50
 
 
2,564,291
 


 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Total
 
 
3,805,230
 
$
2.50
 
 
2,564,291
 




 
 
  Performance Graph     
        The following chart compares the yearly changes in total stockholder return on the Company's common stock against two other measures of
performance. The comparison is on a cumulative basis for the Company's last five fiscal years. The other performance measures are the Russell 2000 index, a peer group consisting of
Denison—DNN, Uranerz—URZ, Uranium Energy—UEC and Strathmore Minerals—STHJF. In each case, we assumed an initial investment of $100 on
December 31, 2006 and reinvestment of all dividends. Dates on the following chart represent the last trading day of the indicated fiscal year. 
 
 
  Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return  Assumes Initial Investment of $100  December 2011     



44




 










Table of Contents 
 
    Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.     
        The following tables provide selected financial and operating data for each of the fiscal years in the five-year period
ended December 31, 2011. The selected financial and operating data set forth below should be read in conjunction with, and are qualified in their entirety by reference to, the section entitled
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Company's financial statements and related notes included
elsewhere in this annual report. Historical results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in any future period. 

























 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 
 
(In thousands except per share and per pound amounts)
 


 Uranium sales
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
4,673
 
$
18,551
 
$
31,143
 


 Cost of sales—operations
 
 
1,387
 
 
1,309
 
 
4,504
 
 
16,372
 
 
18,051
 


 Writedown of uranium properties and exploration expenses
 
 
1,460
 
 
961
 
 
3,580
 
 
17,623
 
 
999
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total cost of uranium sales
 
 
2,847
 
 
2,270
 
 
8,084
 
 
33,995
 
 
19,050
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings (loss) from operations before corporate expenses
 
 
(2,847
)
 
(2,270
)
 
(3,411
)
 
(15,444
)
 
12,093
 


 Corporate expenses
 
 
8,529
 
 
8,430
 
 
6,766
 
 
11,553
 
 
11,768
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings (loss) from operations
 
 
(11,376
)
 
(10,700
)
 
(10,177
)
 
(26,997
)
 
325
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Other income
 
 
177
 
 
345
 
 
111
 
 
488
 
 
753
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss)
 
$
(11,199
)
$
(10,355
)
$
(10,066
)
$
(26,509
)
$
1,078
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income (loss) per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
$
(0.12
)
$
(0.14
)
$
(0.18
)
$
(0.49
)
$
0.02
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted
 
$
(0.12
)
$
(0.14
)
$
(0.18
)
$
(0.49
)
$
0.02
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average common stock and equivalents outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
93,481
 
 
72,313
 
 
56,400
 
 
54,569
 
 
52,119
 


 Diluted
 
 
93,481
 
 
72,313
 
 
56,400
 
 
54,569
 
 
56,081
 


 CONSOLIDATED OPERATING AND OTHER DATA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash provided by (used in) operations
 
$
(10,401
)
$
(7,360
)
$
(5,033
)
$
1,042
 
$
11,294
 


 Capital expenditures and investing activities
 
 
(2,364
)
 
(2,366
)
 
(820
)
 
(11,016
)
 
(22,909
)


 Financing activities
 
 
269
 
 
19,020
 
 
(97
)
 
12,731
 
 
722
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and equivalents
 
$
(12,496
)
$
9,294
 
$
(5,950
)
$
2,757
 
$
(10,893
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Pounds of uranium produced
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
59
 
 
301
 
 
417
 


 Pounds of uranium delivered
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
95
 
 
286
 
 
435
 


 Average sales price per pound
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
49.08
 
$
64.99
 
$
71.61
 


 Average cost of produced pounds sold
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
39.73
 
$
48.60
 
$
33.21
 


 Royalties/commissions per pound sold
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
4.87
 
$
5.99
 
$
6.98
 




45




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA     

























 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
2008 
 
2007 
 


 
 
(In thousands)
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
2,890
 
$
15,386
 
$
6,092
 
$
12,042
 
$
9,284
 


 Working capital (deficit)
 
 
(302
)
 
10,601
 
 
3,276
 
 
9,494
 
 
8,072
 


 Net property, plant and equipment
 
 
18,846
 
 
19,612
 
 
18,944
 
 
22,778
 
 
30,611
 


 Total assets
 
 
31,405
 
 
42,562
 
 
32,012
 
 
43,224
 
 
52,937
 


 Total debt
 
 
569
 
 
653
 
 
770
 
 
928
 
 
839
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
7,994
 
 
9,885
 
 
9,151
 
 
11,616
 
 
10,060
 


 Total shareholders' equity
 
$
23,411
 
$
32,677
 
$
22,861
 
$
31,608
 
$
42,877
 




 
    Item 7.    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.     
 
    Forward Looking Statements     
        This Item 7 contains "forward looking statements." These statements include, without limitation, statements relating to
liquidity, financing of operations, continued volatility of uranium prices and other matters. The words "believes," "expects," "projects," "targets," "estimates" or similar expressions identify
forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to update, revise or correct any of the forward-looking information. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements should be read in
conjunction with our disclosures under the heading: "Risk Factors" beginning on page 11. 
 
 
  Financial Condition and Results of Operations     
 
    Comparison of Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009     
         Production and production costs.    Our uranium production was zero in both 2011 and 2010 and totaled 59,000 pounds in 2009. In 2006 and
2007 we saw a
decline in Vasquez production and the start-up of production from our Kingsville Dome project. The Vasquez project was mined out in 2008 and existing wellfields at Kingsville Dome
completed production in the second quarter of 2009. 
        Production
at our Rosita project was suspended in October 2008 because of high cost of production combined with lower uranium prices. Although technically challenging, we believe the
reserves from Rosita can be produced economically with higher uranium prices. 
        We
completed production at the Vasquez project in the fourth quarter of 2008 and we shut-in production at the Kingsville Dome project in the second quarter of 2009. The
Vasquez project is now being restored. At the Kingsville Dome and Rosita projects, we shut-in production to conserve the in-place reserve base in response to a drop in uranium
market prices. We do not intend to resume production at these sites until there is a significant recovery of uranium prices. 
46



 
Table of Contents
        The
following table details our production and production cost breakdown for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 



















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Kingsville Dome production
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
56,100
 


 Vasquez production
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
2,200
 


 Rosita production
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
700
 


 Total production
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
59,000
 


 Total operating costs
 
$

648,000
 
$

395,000
 
$

1,682,000
 


 Per pound operating costs
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
28.51
 


 Total depreciation and depletion costs
 
$
600,000
 
$
756,000
 
$
887,000
 


 Per pound DD&A cost
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
15.02
 


 Total production cost
 
$
1,248,000
 
$
1,151,000
 
$
2,569,000
 


 Production cost per pound
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
43.53
 




        Total
operating costs, total depreciation and depletion costs and total production costs incurred for the periods presented above differ from the cost of uranium sales recorded in
consolidated statements of operations because of changes in the amounts recorded to inventory for the same periods. The cost of uranium sales include the sales of uranium inventory on hand at the
beginning of the period and do not include uranium produced during the period but not sold at period end. 
        The
following table provides a reconciliation of production costs to cost of uranium sales for the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 



















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Operating costs
 
$
648,000
 
$
395,000
 
$
1,682,000
 


 Change in uranium inventory
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,011,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating expense for uranium production sold
 
$
648,000
 
$
395,000
 
$
2,693,000
 


 Depreciation and depletion costs
 
$

600,000
 
$

756,000
 
$

887,000
 


 Change in uranium inventory
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
203,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation and depletion for uranium production sold
 
$
600,000
 
$
756,000
 
$
1,090,000
 


 Total production costs
 
$

1,248,000
 
$

1,151,000
 
$

2,569,000
 


 Change in uranium inventory
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,214,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Direct cost of uranium production sold
 
$
1,248,000
 
$
1,151,000
 
$
3,783,000
 




        The
costs incurred in 2011 and 2010 for operations and depreciation/depletion resulted from stand-by, maintenance and monitoring activities at our Rosita and Kingsville Dome
projects. Total expenditures for direct production costs in 2009 were significantly lower than 2008 as a result of the scale back of production during the year when compared to 2008. The reduced
production in 2009 resulted from the decline in uranium prices throughout 2008 which led to the Company's decision in October 2008 to defer new wellfield development. 
        Uranium Sales.    We had no uranium sales in 2011 or 2010. In 2009, we sold a total of 95,200 pounds of uranium produced from our
Kingsville Dome,
Vasquez and Rosita projects, resulting in revenue of $4.7 million. 
47



 
Table of Contents
         Cost of Uranium Sales.    Our costs incurred in 2011 and 2010 for operations and depreciation/depletion resulted from stand-by,
maintenance
and monitoring activities at our Rosita and Kingsville Dome projects during the year. Our direct production costs for uranium sales made in 2009 was $3.8 million. Our total cost of uranium
sales is comprised of production costs, including operating expenses, depreciation and depletion expenses, and also includes royalties and commissions related to our uranium sales, amortization of our
restoration and reclamation cost estimates, exploration costs
incurred during the year and impairment provisions for uranium properties. The following table details our production and royalties/commissions cost of uranium sales breakdown for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009: 



















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Total pounds sold
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
95,200
 


 Total operating expenses
 
$
648,000
 
$
395,000
 
$
2,693,000
 


 Per pound operating expense
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
28.29
 


 Depreciation and depletion
 
$
600,000
 
$
756,000
 
$
1,090,000
 


 Per pound DD&A expense
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
11.44
 


 Direct cost of sales
 
$
1,248,000
 
$
1,151,000
 
$
3,783,000
 


 Direct cost of sales per pound
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
39.74
 


 Royalties and commissions
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
464,000
 


 Royalties and commissions per pound
 
$
n/a
 
$
n/a
 
$
4.87
 




         Royalties and Commissions.    There were no royalties or commissions incurred in 2011 or 2010. During 2009, royalties and commissions were
$464,000,
representing 9.9% of sales. Our Vasquez leases contain a sliding scale royalty with percentages that range from 6.25% up to 10.25% depending on our sales prices. Our Kingsville Dome leases have a
6.25% royalty and carry an additional 3.125% royalty payment to certain land owners. Our Rosita leases contain a 11.25% royalty. 
        Operating Expenses.    During 2011 and 2010 we incurred operating expenses related to our South Texas projects of $648,000 and $395,000,
respectively.
All such costs were from stand-by and/or care and maintenance activities. During 2009, operating expenses for Kingsville Dome, Vasquez and Rosita were $2.7 million which included
$548,000 of stand-by and other operating costs at our South Texas projects, which were charged to operations. 
         Depreciation and Depletion.    During 2011 and 2010 we incurred depreciation and depletion expense related to our South Texas projects of
$600,000 and
$756,000, respectively. All such costs were from stand-by and/or care and maintenance activities. During 2009, we incurred depreciation and depletion expense of $1.1 million. 
         Impairment of Uranium Properties.    During 2011, 2010 and 2009, we determined the carrying value of our uranium project assets exceeded
their fair
value. In 2011, this resulted in an impairment provision of $1,460,000, and we reduced the carrying value of Kingsville Dome by $851,000, Rosita by $126,000 and Vasquez by $483,000 at
December 31, 2011. In 2010, we recorded an impairment provision of $961,000, and we reduced the carrying value of Kingsville Dome by $590,000, Rosita by $58,000 and Vasquez by $313,000 at
December 31, 2010. In 2009 our impairment provision totaled $3.5 million reducing the carrying value of Kingsville Dome by $2.5 million, Rosita by $214,000, Vasquez by $263,000
and other South Texas projects by $567,000 at December 31, 2009. 
         Accretion and Amortization of Future Restoration Costs.    During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the accretion and amortization of future
restoration costs was
$121,000, $156,000 and $257,000, respectively. 
         General and Administrative Charges.    We incurred general and administrative charges and corporate depreciation of $8.5 million,
$8.4 million and $6.8 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
48



 
Table of Contents
        Significant
expenditures for general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were: 



















 
 
Year Ended 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
(Amounts in 000's)
 


 Stock compensation expense
 
$
884
 
$
1,032
 
$
1,258
 


 Salaries and payroll burden
 
 
2,578
 
 
2,597
 
 
2,186
 


 Legal, accounting, public company expenses
 
 
2,764
 
 
1,656
 
 
1,348
 


 Provision for legal settlement
 
 
—
 
 
1,375
 
 
—
 


 Insurance and bank fees
 
 
626
 
 
565
 
 
539
 


 Consulting and professional services
 
 
1,010
 
 
593
 
 
748
 


 Office expenses
 
 
247
 
 
231
 
 
313
 


 Travel and other expenses
 
 
292
 
 
238
 
 
232
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
8,401
 
$
8,287
 
$
6,624
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
non-cash compensation expense recorded for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 resulted from the recognition of expense related to the fair value of
the Company's stock option and restricted common stock grants. The value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes
option-pricing model requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected term of the option award and stock price volatility. The expected term of options granted was derived from
historical data on our employee exercise and post-vesting employment termination experience. The expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of our stock. 
        The
increases in salary and payroll burden in 2010 resulted primarily from a change in executive level personnel in late 2009, the reinstatement of the non-cash portion of
executive level salaries in the 2nd half of 2010, the payment of performance related bonuses in 2010 and a 50% increase in medical premium costs for the 2010 plan year. 
        The
Company's legal, accounting and public company expenses increased by $1.1 million in 2011 compared with 2010. The increase resulted primarily from costs incurred in connection
with acquisition activity for the Neutron Energy, Inc. transaction and legal fees related to the Kleberg County litigation. The Company's legal, accounting and public company expenses increased
by $308,000 in 2010 compared with 2009. These increases resulted from legal fees related to the Saenz lawsuit, the recording of our regulatory fees as G&A costs in 2010 because of our no longer being
in active uranium production during the year, increased Board of Director fees related to the addition of a Board member in January 2010 and an increase in the number of meetings held during the year
and higher accounting fees related to services performed for the audit of the Company's 401k plan. 
        In
September, 2010, we recorded $1.375 million in settlement of the lawsuit titled, Saenz v. URI Inc. The payment of
$1.375 million in cash included amounts for prior royalties that the plaintiffs had previously
rejected. The payment was made in February 2011, upon the execution of amendments to the leases and to documentation of other aspects of the settlement and dismissal of the suit. 
        Insurance
costs increased in 2011 primarily because of an increase in general liability and umbrella insurance premiums realted to an under lying increase in the Company's payroll (the
basis for the premium determination) and a $4 million increase in coverage to comply with the insurance requirements of the Los Finados project. Insurance costs increased in 2010 primarily
because of an increase in director's and officer's liability premiums in 2010 compared to 2009. 
        Consulting
and professional service expenses in 2011 increased by $417,000 compared to 2010. This increase resulted primarily from costs incurred in connection with the preparation of
the Churchrock 
49



 
Table of Contents
Section 8
feasibility study. Consulting and professional service expenses in 2010 were lower than 2009 by $155,000. This reduction resulted primarily because fees incurred in 2009 for New
Mexico legacy and site and property characterization activities were not repeated in 2010. 
        Reduced
office related costs in 2010 resulted from executive search fees and employee allowances paid in 2009 that were not incurred in 2010. 
         Net Income (Loss).    For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had a net loss of $11.2 million compared to net losses of
$10.4 million and $10.1 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. On a diluted per share basis, losses were ($0.12) in 2011, ($0.14) in 2010 and ($0.18) in 2009. These losses in 2011, 2010
and 2009 include an impairment provision for the Kingsville Dome, Vasquez and Rosita projects of $1,460,000, $961,000 and $3.5 million, respectively and exploration charges of $2,000, $62,000
and $1.6 million, respectively. 
         Cash Flow.    As of December 31, 2011, we had a cash balance of approximately $2.9 million compared with approximately
$15.4 million and $6.1 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        In
2011, we had a negative cash flow from operations of $10.4 million, resulting primarily from our lack of revenues during the year and the cessation of uranium production in
2009. 
        During
2011, we used $2.4 million in investing activities, including increases to collateralize our financial surety obligation during the year of $2.0 million and $322,000
of capital additions made during the year at our South Texas and New Mexico projects. 
        During
2011, a total of 476,644 shares of common stock were sold resulting in net proceeds of approximately $469,000 pursuant to the Company's ATM Sales Agreement. The Company incurred
approximately $144,000 in legal, accounting and other fees in connection with its shelf registration statement and the ATM Sales Agreement. 
        In
2010, we had a negative cash flow from operations of $7.4 million, resulting primarily from our cessation of uranium production in 2009 and the related lack of uranium sales
during the year. In 2009, we had a negative cash flow from operations of $5.0 million, resulting primarily from low uranium production and related sales volumes. 
        In
2010, we raised net proceeds of approximately $19.1 million through the sale of 35,365,330 shares of common stock. In the June/July period we issued 27,142,830 shares of common
stock at $0.42 per share and in November 8,222,500 shares of common stock at $1.16 per share in underwritten public offerings. 
        During
2010, we used $2.4 million in investing activities, which includes $1.2 million of capital additions for the acquisition of exploration property in South Texas.
Additionally, we increased the collateral required for our financial surety obligation by $551,000 during the year. The deferral of wellfield development activities resulted in our capital
expenditures used in investing activities being reduced by approximately $10.2 million to $820,000 in 2009. 
 
 
 Liquidity—Cash Sources and Uses for 2012     
        As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $2.9 million in cash and our cash balance at February 29, 2012 was
approximately $2.0 million. The Company is not currently conducting uranium production activities and has no uranium inventory. The Company is not projecting any sales revenue and related cash
inflows for 2012. 
        The
Company raised $10 million on March 9, 2012 in a private placement of common stock with Resource Capital Fund V L.P. ("RCF"). In connection with the transaction
we sold 10,259,567 shares of common stock at a price of $0.9747 per share. The capital raise was conducted as a part of an 
50



 
Table of Contents
acquisition
bid for all of the outstanding shares of Neutron Energy, Inc. See (Note 12—"Subsequent Event") for a description of this financing and additional funding
commitments made by RCF to the Company. 
        On
October 28, 2011, the Company entered into an At-The-Market Sales Agreement with BTIG, LLC, allowing it to sell from time to time, its common
shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $15.0 million, through an "at-the-market" equity offering program ("ATM Sales Agreement"). The Company raised
additional capital in November and December 2011 and in January 2012 through the sale of common stock of common stock under this program. During 2011, a total of 476,644 shares of common stock were
sold which resulted in net proceeds of approximately $469,000 pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement. In January 2012, a total of 1,815,073 shares of common stock were sold which raised net proceeds of
approximately $1,519,000. The Company incurred approximately $144,000 in legal, accounting and other fees in connection with its shelf registration statement and the ATM Sales Agreement. The Company
has a total of $12.9 million available for future sales under the ATM Sales Agreement. 
        The
Company expects that its existing cash, the funding commitments from RCF and funding available under the ATM Sales Agreement will provide it the necessary liquidity moving forward
into 2013. 
 
 
  Off Balance Sheet Arrangements     
        The Company has obtained financial surety relating to certain of its future restoration and reclamation obligations as required by the
State of Texas regulatory agencies. The Company has bank Letters of Credit (the "L/Cs") and performance bonds issued for the benefit of the Company to satisfy such regulatory requirements. The L/Cs
were issued by Bank of America and the performance bonds have been issued by United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G"). L/Cs for $5,858,000, $5,858,000 and $5,761,000 at
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively such L/Cs are collateralized in their entirety by certificates of deposit. 
        Performance
bonds totaling $2,834,000 were issued for the benefit of the Company at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. USF&G has required that the Company deposit funds
collateralizing a portion of the bonds. The amount of collateral exceeded the amount of the bonding issued by USF&G by approximately $60,000 at December 31, 2011. The amount of bonding issued
by USF&G exceeded the amount of collateral by $2.5 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the event that USF&G is required to perform under its bonds or the bonds are
called by the state agencies, the Company would be obligated to pay any expenditure in excess of the collateral. 
 
 
  Contractual Obligations     
        The table below sets forth our best estimates as to the amounts and timing of future payments relating to our most significant
contractual obligations as of December 31, 2011, except as otherwise noted. 

























 
 
 
 
Payment Due by Period 
 


Contractual Obligations



 
Total 
 
Less than 1 year 
 
1 - 3 years 
 
3 - 5 years 
 
More than 5 years 
 


 Capital leases
 
$
144,588
 
$
76,740
 
$
67,848
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 Corporate office lease
 
 
34,348
 
 
34,348
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Crownpoint
 
 
450,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
450,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
628,936
 
$
111,088
 
$
67,848
 
$
—
 
$
450,000
 




51




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
   Critical Accounting Policies     
        Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on
page F-8 of this Form 10-K. We believe our most critical accounting policies involve those requiring the use of significant estimates and assumptions in
determining values or projecting future costs. 
        Specifically
regarding our uranium properties, significant estimates were utilized in determining the carrying value of these assets. These assets have been recorded at their estimated
net realizable value for impairment purposes, which is less than our cost. The actual value realized from these assets may vary significantly from these estimates based upon market conditions,
financing availability and other factors. 
        Regarding
our reserve for future restoration and reclamation costs, significant estimates were utilized in determining the future costs to complete the groundwater restoration and
surface reclamation at our mine sites. The actual cost to conduct these activities may vary significantly from these estimates. 
        Such
estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period. 
        The
accounts of the Company are maintained in United States dollars. All dollar amounts in the financial statements are stated in United States dollars except where indicated. 
 
    Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.     
 
    Uranium Price Volatility     
        The Company is subject to market risk related to the market price of uranium. We have two uranium supply contracts whose pricing
mechanisms are based upon the market price of uranium. Future sales under these contracts would be impacted by both spot and long-term uranium price fluctuations. The Company's cash flow
has historically been dependent on the price of uranium, which is determined primarily by global supply and demand, relative to the Company's costs of production. Historically, uranium prices have
been subject to fluctuation, and the price of uranium has been and will continue to be affected by numerous factors beyond the Company's control, including the demand for nuclear power, political and
economic conditions, and governmental legislation in uranium producing and consuming countries and production levels and costs of production of other producing companies. 
        The
spot market price for uranium has demonstrated a large range since January 2001. Prices have risen from $7.10 per pound at January 2001 to a high of $136.00 per pound as of June
2007. The spot market price was $52.00 per pound as of February 28, 2012. 
52



 
Table of Contents
 
    Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.     
 
    Financial Statements     
        The financial statement information called for by this item appears on pages F-1 through
F-    . 
 
 
  Supplementary Financial Data Tables     
 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA  
 (UNAUDITED)  


































 
 
For the Quarter Ended 
 


 
 
12/31/2011 
 
9/30/2011 
 
6/30/2011 
 
3/31/2011 
 
12/31/2010 
 
9/30/2010 
 
6/30/2010 
 
3/31/2010 
 


 
 
(Amounts in Thousands)
 


 Uranium sales
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 Loss from operations
 
 
(2,750
)
 
(2,827
)
 
(2,704
)
 
(3,094
)
 
(2,632
)
 
(3,731
)
 
(1,992
)
 
(2,345
)


 Net loss
 
 
(2,693
)
 
(2,787
)
 
(2,693
)
 
(3,026
)
 
(2,622
)
 
(3,664
)
 
(1,721
)
 
(2,348
)


 Net loss per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic and diluted
 
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.04
)
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.04
)




 
    Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.     
        None.  
 
    Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures.     
 
    Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures     
        The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in its
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") are recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time period specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is
accumulated and communicated to management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure based on the
definition of "disclosure controls and procedures" as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). In designing
and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management has recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of
achieving the desired control objectives, and management is required to apply judgment in evaluating its controls and procedures. 
        During
the fiscal period covered by this report, the Company's management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, carried out
an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")). Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have certified that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of December 31, 2011. 
 
 
  Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting     
        Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined
in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is designed, under the supervision of the Company's
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external 
53



 
Table of Contents
purposes
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). The Company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures of the
Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        The
Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. This evaluation was based on the framework in
"Internal Control—Integrated Framework" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. 
        Based
on the Company's evaluation under the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. 
        There
were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2011 that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.  
 
    Item 9B.    Other Information.     
        None. 
54




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  PART III     
 
    Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.     
        The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  
 
    Item 11.    Executive Compensation.     
        The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  
 
   Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.     
        The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  
 
   Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence.     
        The information required by this item is incorporated by reference from our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  
 
    Item 14.    Principal Accountant Fees and Services.     
        The information required by this item is incorporated by reference in our definitive proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. 
 
 
  PART IV     
 
    Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.     
        See Index to Exhibits on page E-1 for a listing of the exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report. 
55




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  SIGNATURES     
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
Date:
March 12, 2012 













 
 
 URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.



 
 
  By:
 
/s/ DONALD C. EWIGLEBEN

  Donald C. Ewigleben, President, Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Operating Officer




        Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated. 











Signature



 
Date





 
 

 


/s/ PAUL K. WILLMOTT

  Paul K. Willmott, Director and Executive Chairman
 
March 12, 2012


/s/ DONALD C. EWIGLEBEN

  Donald C. Ewigleben Director, President, CEO and COO
 
March 12, 2012


/s/ THOMAS H. EHRLICH

  Thomas H. Ehrlich, Vice President—Finance and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
March 12, 2012


/s/ LELAND O. ERDAHL

  Leland O. Erdahl, Director
 
March 12, 2012


/s/ TERENCE J. CRYAN

  Terence J. Cryan, Director
 
March 12, 2012


/s/ MARVIN K. KAISER

  Marvin K. Kaiser, Director
 
March 12, 2012




56




 










Table of Contents 
 
  URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. AND CONSOLIDATED SUBSIDIARIES         INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     

 












 Consolidated Financial Statements For The Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
 
 


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 

F-2


 Consolidated Balance Sheets
 

F-4


 Consolidated Statements of Operations
 

F-6


 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
 

F-7


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 

F-8


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 

F-9





F-1




 










Table of Contents 
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
To
the Board of Directors
Uranium Resources, Inc.
Lewisville, Texas 75067 
        We
have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Uranium Resources, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Uranium Resources, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
        We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Uranium Resources, Inc.'s and subsidiaries' internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 12, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of Uranium
Resources, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting. 
Hein &
Associates LLP
Dallas, Texas
March 12, 2012 
F-2



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM     
To
the Board of Directors
Uranium Resources, Inc.
Lewisville, Texas 75067 
        We
have audited Uranium Resources, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Uranium Resources, Inc.'s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management's Report on
Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
        We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our
audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures
that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
        Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
        In
our opinion, Uranium Resources, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
        We
have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Uranium Resources, Inc.
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years ending December 31, 2011 and our
report dated March 12, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements. 
Hein &
Associates LLP
Dallas, Texas
March 12, 2012 
F-3




 










Table of Contents 

 
 
    URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS     
 
    ASSETS     
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
2,890,263
 
$
15,386,472
 


 Receivables, net
 
 
123,336
 
 
46,244
 


 Prepaid and other current assets
 
 
165,509
 
 
179,231
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current assets
 
 
3,179,108
 
 
15,611,947
 


 Property, plant and equipment, at cost:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Uranium properties
 
 
82,768,867
 
 
82,989,579
 


 Other property, plant and equipment
 
 
868,454
 
 
905,511
 


 Less—accumulated depreciation, depletion and impairment
 
 
(64,791,294
)
 
(64,282,888
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net property, plant and equipment
 
 
18,846,027
 
 
19,612,202
 


 Long-term investment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Restricted cash
 
 
9,379,794
 
 
7,337,366
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
31,404,929
 
$
42,561,515
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes to financial statements are an integral part of these consolidated statements. 
F-4




 










Table of Contents 
 
    URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Continued)     
 
    LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY     
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts and short term notes payable
 
$
1,148,812
 
$
602,190
 


 Current portion of restoration reserve
 
 
1,227,125
 
 
1,239,588
 


 Royalties and commissions payable
 
 
665,745
 
 
665,745
 


 Deferred compensation
 
 
—
 
 
697,028
 


 Accrued legal settlement
 
 
—
 
 
1,375,000
 


 Accrued interest and other accrued liabilities
 
 
374,088
 
 
348,269
 


 Current portion of capital leases
 
 
65,161
 
 
83,183
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current liabilities
 
 
3,480,931
 
 
5,011,003
 


 Other long-term liabilities and deferred credits
 
 
4,008,634
 
 
4,304,057
 


 Long-term capital leases, less current portion
 
 
54,071
 
 
119,588
 


 Other long-term debt
 
 
450,000
 
 
450,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
7,993,636
 
 
9,884,648
 


 Commitments and contingencies (Notes 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 11)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Shareholders' equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common stock, $0.001 par value, shares authorized: 200,000,000; shares issued and outstanding (net of treasury shares): 2011—94,005,006;
2010—92,430,306
 
 
94,043
 
 
92,468
 


 Paid-in capital
 
 
169,904,203
 
 
167,971,955
 


 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(146,577,535
)
 
(135,378,138
)


 Less: Treasury stock (38,125 shares), at cost
 
 
(9,418
)
 
(9,418
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total shareholders' equity
 
 
23,411,293
 
 
32,676,867
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
31,404,929
 
$
42,561,515
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes to financial statements are an integral part of these consolidated statements. 
F-5




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS     



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Revenues:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Uranium sales
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
4,673,169
 


 Total revenue
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
4,673,169
 


 Cost of uranium sales:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Royalties and commissions
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
464,028
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
648,278
 
 
394,763
 
 
2,692,960
 


 Accretion/amortization of restoration reserve
 
 
121,183
 
 
155,943
 
 
257,791
 


 Depreciation and depletion
 
 
599,504
 
 
756,377
 
 
1,089,612
 


 Writedown of uranium properties
 
 
1,460,170
 
 
961,278
 
 
3,517,970
 


 Exploration expenses
 
 
17,918
 
 
1,646
 
 
61,677
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total cost of uranium sales
 
 
2,847,053
 
 
2,270,007
 
 
8,084,038
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from operations before corporate expenses
 
 
(2,847,053
)
 
(2,270,007
)
 
(3,410,869
)


 Corporate expenses:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 General and administrative (includes stock compensation expense of $884,000, $1,032,000 and $1,258,000 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively)
 
 
8,400,955
 
 
6,911,672
 
 
6,624,023
 


 Provision for legal settlement
 
 
—
 
 
1,375,000
 
 
—
 


 Depreciation
 
 
127,741
 
 
143,361
 
 
142,531
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total corporate expenses
 
 
8,528,696
 
 
8,430,033
 
 
6,766,554
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Loss from operations
 
 
(11,375,749
)
 
(10,700,040
)
 
(10,177,423
)


 Other income (expense):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest expense
 
 
(18,968
)
 
(25,362
)
 
(40,637
)


 Interest and other income, net
 
 
195,320
 
 
370,835
 
 
152,198
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total other income, net
 
 
176,352
 
 
345,473
 
 
111,561
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(11,199,397
)
$
(10,354,567
)
$
(10,065,862
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic and diluted net loss per common share
 
$
(0.12
)
$
(0.14
)
$
(0.18
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes to financial statements are an integral part of these consolidated statements. 
F-6




 










Table of Contents 
 
    URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY     

























 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
Treasury Stock 
 


 
 
Shares 
 
Amount 
 
Paid-In Capital 
 
Accumulated Deficit 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2008
 
 
55,955,549
 
$
55,994
 
$
146,518,753
 
$
(114,957,709
)
$
(9,418
)


 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10,065,862
)
 
—
 


 Common stock issuance
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
61,368
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Restricted common stock issued for services
 
 
826,243
 
 
826
 
 
(826
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Stock compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,257,909
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2009
 
 
56,781,792
 
 
56,820
 
 
147,837,204
 
 
(125,023,571
)
 
(9,418
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(10,354,567
)
 
—
 


 Restricted common stock issued for services
 
 
282,071
 
 
282
 
 
(282
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Stock compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,032,308
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Common stock issued for stock option exercise
 
 
1,113
 
 
1
 
 
807
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common stock issuance
 
 
35,365,330
 
 
35,365
 
 
19,101,918
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2010
 
 
92,430,306
 
 
92,468
 
 
167,971,955
 
 
(135,378,138
)
 
(9,418
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(11,199,397
)
 
—
 


 Common stock issued for deferred compensation
 
 
885,021
 
 
885
 
 
696,142
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Restricted common stock issued for services
 
 
175,885
 
 
176
 
 
(176
)
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Common stock issued for stock option exercise
 
 
37,150
 
 
37
 
 
28,197
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Stock compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
883,941
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Common stock issuance
 
 
476,644
 
 
477
 
 
324,144
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balances, December 31, 2011
 
 
94,005,006
 
$
94,043
 
$
169,904,203
 
$
(146,577,535
)
$
(9,418
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes to financial statements are an integral part of these consolidated statements. 
F-7




 










Table of Contents 

 
 
    URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS     



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net loss
 
$
(11,199,397
)
$
(10,354,567
)
$
(10,065,862
)


 Reconciliation of net loss to cash used in operations—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accretion/amortization of restoration reserve
 
 

121,183
 
 

155,943
 
 

257,791
 


 Depreciation and depletion
 
 
727,245
 
 
899,738
 
 
1,232,143
 


 Writedown of uranium properties and exploration expenses
 
 
1,460,170
 
 
961,278
 
 
3,517,970
 


 Decrease in restoration and reclamation accrual
 
 
(1,530,303
)
 
(1,373,228
)
 
(1,802,370
)


 Stock compensation expense
 
 
883,941
 
 
1,032,308
 
 
1,257,909
 


 Other non-cash items, net
 
 
2,289
 
 
19,700
 
 
34,584
 


 Effect of changes in operating working capital items—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Increase) decrease in receivables
 
 
(77,092
)
 
17,646
 
 
(23,530
)


 Decrease in inventories
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,010,845
 


 (Increase) decrease in prepaid and other current assets
 
 
13,722
 
 
(53,831
)
 
388,089
 


 Increase (decrease) in payables and accrued liabilities and deferred credits
 
 
(802,560
)
 
1,334,939
 
 
(840,545
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in operating activities
 
 
(10,400,802
)
 
(7,360,074
)
 
(5,032,976
)


 Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Increase in certificate of deposit, restricted
 
 
(2,042,428
)
 
(551,366
)
 
(149,285
)


 Additions to property, plant and equipment—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Kingsville Dome
 
 
(141,137
)
 
(149,652
)
 
(158,911
)


 Rosita
 
 
(125,693
)
 
(58,504
)
 
(40,274
)


 Vasquez
 
 
(97,200
)
 
(77,500
)
 
(193,528
)


 Rosita South
 
 
(40,959
)
 
(78,813
)
 
(19,926
)


 Los Finados project
 
 
(88,236
)
 
(1,168,780
)
 
—
 


 Churchrock
 
 
(58,838
)
 
(138,541
)
 
(218,966
)


 Crownpoint/Section 13 Drilling
 
 
(34,921
)
 
(119,624
)
 
(2,991
)


 Proceeds from Joint Venture agreement
 
 
300,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Other property
 
 
(35,311
)
 
(23,123
)
 
(36,340
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(2,364,723
)
 
(2,365,903
)
 
(820,221
)


 Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Payments of borrowings
 
 
(83,539
)
 
(117,710
)
 
(157,695
)


 Issuance of common stock, net
 
 
352,855
 
 
19,138,091
 
 
61,368
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
 
 
269,316
 
 
19,020,381
 
 
(96,327
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(12,496,209
)
 
9,294,404
 
 
(5,949,524
)


 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year
 
 
15,386,472
 
 
6,092,068
 
 
12,041,592
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year
 
$
2,890,263
 
$
15,386,472
 
$
6,092,068
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes to financial statements are an integral part of these consolidated statements. 
F-8




 










Table of Contents 
 
    URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS         DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010     
 1. DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY  

        Uranium Resources, Inc. ("URI") was formed in 1977 and domesticated in Delaware in 1987. The Company is primarily engaged in the business of acquiring, exploring, developing and
mining uranium properties, using the in situ recovery ("ISR") or solution mining process. Historically, the primary customers of the Company have been
major utilities who utilize nuclear power to generate electricity. At present the Company owns both developed and undeveloped uranium properties in South Texas and undeveloped uranium properties in
New Mexico. 
        The
Company resumed uranium production in 2004 at its Vasquez project, in 2006 at its Kingsville Dome project and in the 3rd quarter of 2008 at its Rosita project, each of such
projects are located in South Texas. As a result of declining uranium market prices and high production costs, the Company ceased development of additional wellfields and curtailed production from its
South Texas projects as existing production wellfields from each project were depleted. Production at our Vasquez and Rosita projects were shut down in the 4th quarter of 2008 and production
was shut-in at the Kingsville Dome project in June 2009. The Vasquez project was mined out in 2008 and is now being restored. At the Kingsville Dome and Rosita projects, our production
shut-in was done to conserve the in-place reserve base until higher prices can be realized. 
        Prior
to resuming Vasquez production, the Company had been in production stand-by since the first quarter of 1999 at its Kingsville Dome and Rosita projects. Groundwater
restoration and reclamation activities have been conducted at these two sites and are currently ongoing at each of the Kingsville Dome, Vasquez and Rosita projects. 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  
 
    Principles of Consolidation     
        The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America and include the accounts of URI and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively "the Company"). All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
 
 
  Uranium Properties     
        All acquisition and development costs (including financing, salary and related overhead costs) incurred in connection with the various
uranium properties are capitalized. Exploration and evaluation costs associated with uranium properties are expensed as incurred until
such time that the existence of a commercially minable uranium deposit is confirmed. All properties with significant acquisition or incurred costs are evaluated for their realizability on a
property-by-property basis. Any impairment of such costs is recognized through a reduction in the net carrying value of the asset. (See Note 4—"Uranium
Properties"). 
        Depreciation
and Depletion. Depletion of uranium mineral interests, permits, licenses and related development costs are computed on a property-by-property basis
using the units-of-production method based on each project's pounds of recoverable uranium. The determination of the depletable base for each uranium mineral interest is
calculated by the Company's professional geologists to determine the estimated recoverable uranium to be produced over the projected life for each uranium mineral interest. Depreciation and depletion
are provided on the investment costs, net of salvage value, of the 
F-9



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
various
uranium properties' production plants and related equipment using the estimated production life of the uranium reserves. During the periods that our facilities are not in production, depletion
on our mineral interests, permits, licenses and development properties are suspended. Depreciation and depletion of our plant facilities, machinery and equipment continues, at significantly reduced
amounts, in accordance with the level of stand-by activity being conducted at each site. 
        Other
ancillary plant equipment and vehicles are depreciated using a straight line method based upon the estimated useful lives of the assets. 
 
 
  Other Property, Plant and Equipment     
        Other property, plant and equipment consists of corporate office equipment, furniture and fixtures and transportation equipment.
Depreciation on other property is computed based upon the estimated useful lives of the assets. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Gain or loss on disposal of such assets is
recorded as other income or expense as such assets are disposed. 
 
 
  Capitalization of Interest     
        The Company capitalizes interest cost with respect to properties undergoing exploration or development activities that are not subject
to depreciation or depletion. The average interest rate on outstanding borrowings during the period is used in calculating the amount of interest to be capitalized. No interest was capitalized in the
twelve months ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Total interest costs in these periods were $19,000, $25,400 and $40,600, respectively. 
 
 
  Restoration and Remediation Costs (Asset Retirement Obligations)     
        Various federal and state mining laws and regulations require the Company to reclaim the surface areas and restore underground water
quality for its mine projects to the pre-existing mine area average quality after the completion of mining. The Company records the estimated present value of reclamation liabilities and
increases the carrying amount of the related asset. Reclamation costs are allocated to expense over the life of the related assets and are periodically adjusted to reflect changes in the estimated
present value resulting from the passage of time and revisions to the estimates of either the timing or amount of the reclamation and remediation costs. 
        Future
reclamation and remediation costs are accrued based on management's best estimate at the end of each period of the costs expected to be incurred at each project. Such estimates
are determined by the Company's engineering studies calculating the cost of future of surface and groundwater activities. 
 
 
  Contingent Liabilities—Off Balance Sheet Arrangements     
        The Company has obtained financial surety relating to certain of its future restoration and reclamation obligations as required by the
State of Texas regulatory agencies. The Company has bank Letters of Credit (the "L/Cs") and performance bonds issued for the benefit of the Company to satisfy such regulatory requirements. The L/Cs
were issued by Bank of America and the performance bonds have been issued by United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company ("USF&G"). The amount of the 
F-10



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
L/Cs
totaled $5,858,000, $5,858,000 and $5,761,000 at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Such L/Cs are collateralized in their entirety by certificates of deposit. 
        Performance
bonds totaling $2,834,000 were issued for the benefit of the Company at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. USF&G has required that the Company deposit funds
collateralizing a portion of the bonds. In September 2010, the Company received notice from the bonding company requesting that the Company either increase the collateral supporting the bonds to 100%
of the bond amount by making quarterly payments of $500,000 or cause the release of the bonds by the fourth quarter of 2011. The amount of the collateral exceed the amount of bonding issued by USF&G
by $60,000 at December 31, 2011. The amount of the bonding issued by USF&G exceeded the amount of the collateral by $2.0 million and $2.5 million at December 31, 2010 and
2009, respectively. In the event that USF&G is required to perform under its bonds or the bonds are called by the state agencies, the Company would be obligated to pay any expenditure in excess of the
collateral. 
 
 
  Revenue Recognition for Uranium Sales     
        The Company delivers uranium to its customers at third-party conversion facilities. The third-party converters warehouse our uranium
and transfer title to our customers via book transfer upon instructions supplied by the Company. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of uranium when title to the uranium transfers and
delivery is completed through such book transfer. The Company bears the risk of loss while its uranium is held at the converter prior to its sale to our customers, except in the case of negligence by
the converter, whereby the converter would bear such risk. Upon completion of the book transfer, which is a record keeping entry, not a physical transfer of goods to the customer, the risk of loss
passes to our customer. 
 
 
  Earnings Per Share     
        Net earnings (loss) per common share—basic has been calculated based on the weighted average shares outstanding during the
year and net earnings (loss) per common share—diluted has been calculated assuming the exercise or conversion of all
dilutive securities. Due to net losses incurred for 2011, 2010 and 2009 there were no dilutive securities included in these years as their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. 
        The
weighted average number of shares used to calculate basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share was 93,480,528 in 2011, 72,313,464 in 2010 and 56,400,466 in 2009. The potential
dilutive Common Stock that was excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share was 4,548,851 in 2011, 5,947,143 in 2010 and 6,216,989 in 2009. 
 
 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows     
        The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. 
F-11



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
        Additional
disclosures of cash flow information follow: 



















 
 
Year Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Cash paid during the period for:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Interest
 
$

19,000
 
$

25,400
 
$

40,600
 


 The following non-cash transactions occurred in 2011, 2010 and 2009 and such transactions are summarized as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common stock issued for deferred compensation
 
$
697,027
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Restricted common stock issued for services
 
$
176
 
$
282
 
$
826
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Restricted share issuance of Common Stock in connection with a cash conservation plan
 
$
—
 
$
106,500
 
$
324,000
 




        No
new capital leases or financings were entered into in 2011, 2010 and 2009. The balance of the capital leases at December 31, 2011 was $119,000. 
 
 
  Cash Balances in Excess of Federally Insured Limits     
        The Company's cash balance at December 31, 2011 was $2.9 million and it maintains its cash accounts primarily with Bank
of America, N.A. The total cash balances are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to $250,000 per account. The Company has cash balances with Bank of America, N.A. that exceeded the
balance insured by the FDIC that totaled approximately $927,000 at December 31, 2011. 
 
 
  Restricted Cash     
        At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had pledged certificates of deposit and money market accounts of $9,380,000 and
$7,337,000, respectively, in order to collateralize letters of credit required for future restoration and reclamation obligations related to the Company's South Texas production and development
properties. These funds are not readily available to the Company and are not included in cash equivalents. 
 
 
  Use of Estimates     
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America
requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions may affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Specifically
regarding the Company's uranium properties, significant estimates were utilized in determining the carrying value of these assets and in the case of producing and development properties, the pounds of
uranium to be recovered. The actual values received from the disposition of these assets and the amount of uranium recovered from these projects may vary significantly from these estimates based upon
market conditions, financing availability and other factors. 
F-12



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
        Regarding
the Company's reserve for future restoration and reclamation costs, significant estimates were utilized in determining the future costs and timing to complete the groundwater
restoration and surface reclamation at the Company's mine sites. The actual cost to conduct these activities may vary significantly from these estimates. 
 
 
  Risks and Uncertainties     
        Historically, the market for uranium has experienced significant price fluctuations. Prices are significantly impacted by global supply
and demand, which is affected by the demand for nuclear power, political, and economic conditions, governmental legislation in uranium producing and consuming countries, and production levels and
costs of production of other producing companies. Increases or decreases in prices received could have a significant impact on the Company's future results of operations. 
 
 
  Reclassifications     
        Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior years' financial statements to conform to the current year presentation. These
reclassifications had no effect on previously reported results of operations or retained earnings. 
 
 
  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements     
        In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement: Amendments to Achieve
Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. This standard clarifies guidance on how to measure fair value and is largely
consistent with existing fair value measurement principles. The ASU also expands existing disclosure requirements for fair value measurements and makes other amendments. This ASU is effective for the
Company prospectively beginning January 1, 2012. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial
condition. 
 3. LIQUIDITY  

        The Company had negative cash flow from operations of $10.4 million, $7.4 million and 5.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
        We
had $2.9 million in cash at December 31, 2011 and $15.4 million at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2009 the Company had sold its entire
uranium inventory and as such, we are currently evaluating the opportunities for additional sales revenue and related cash inflows for the Company in 2012. 
        The
Company raised $10 million on March 9, 2012 in a private placement with Resource Capital Fund V L.P. ("RCF"). In connection with the transaction we sold
10,259,567 shares of common stock at a price of $0.9747 per share. The capital raise was conducted as a part of an acquisition bid for all of the outstanding shares of Neutron Energy, Inc. See
(Note 12—"Subsequent Event") for a description of this financing and additional funding commitments made by RCF to the Company. 
F-13



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 3. LIQUIDITY (Continued) 
        On
October 28, 2011, the Company entered into an At-The-Market Sales Agreement with BTIG, LLC, allowing it to sell from time to time, its common
shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $15.0 million, through an "at-the-market" equity offering program ("ATM Sales Agreement"). The Company raised
additional capital in November and December 2011 and in January 2012 through the sale of common stock under this program. During 2011, a total of 476,644 shares of common stock were sold which
resulted in net proceeds of approximately $469,000 pursuant to the ATM Sales Agreement. In January 2012, a total of 1,815,073 shares of common stock were sold which raised net proceeds of
approximately $1,519,000. The Company incurred approximately $144,000 in legal, accounting and other fees in connection with its shelf registration statement and the ATM Sales Agreement. The Company
has a total of $12.9 million available for future sales under the ATM Sales Agreement. 
        The
Company expects that its existing cash, the funding commitments from RCF and funding available under the ATM Sales Agreement will provide it the necessary liquidity moving forward
into 2013. 
 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT  
















 
 
Property, Plant and
Equipment Balances (net)
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Uranium plant
 
$
9,139,000
 
$
9,241,000
 


 Permits and licenses
 
 
2,714,000
 
 
2,663,000
 


 Mineral rights
 
 
2,711,000
 
 
2,877,000
 


 Evaluation and delineation
 
 
2,460,000
 
 
2,460,000
 


 Vehicles/depreciable equipment
 
 
1,405,000
 
 
1,702,000
 


 Wellfield development
 
 
131,000
 
 
115,000
 


 Other uranium properties
 
 
193,000
 
 
354,000
 


 Other property, plant and equipment
 
 
93,000
 
 
200,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
18,846,000
 
$
19,612,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 
 
   Uranium Properties     
 
    Impairment of Uranium Properties     
        The Company reviews and evaluates its long-lived assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. An impairment is considered to exist if the total estimated future cash flows on an undiscounted basis are less than the carrying amount of
the assets. An impairment loss is measured and recorded based on discounted estimated future cash flows. Future cash flows are estimated based on quantities of recoverable minerals, expected uranium
prices, production levels and operating costs of production and capital, based upon the projected remaining future uranium production from each project. The Company's estimates of future cash flows
are based on numerous assumptions and it is possible that actual future cash flows will be significantly different than the estimates, as actual future quantities of recoverable 
F-14



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) 
minerals,
uranium prices, production levels and operating costs of production and capital are each subject to significant risks and uncertainties. 
        At
December 31, 2011, we determined the carrying value of our project assets at each of our South Texas production locations exceeded their fair value. A decline in the current
and projected market price of uranium and an increase in the estimated production costs for each of our South Texas projects resulted in a decrease in the estimated future cash flow to be generated
from each site. Such determination resulted in an impairment provision of approximately $1,460,000 for the year. The impairment provision for 2011 was approximately $851,000 for the Kingsville Dome
project, $126,000 for the Rosita project and $483,000 for the Vasquez project. The impairment provision recorded in
2010 was approximately $961,000 and included approximately $590,000 million for the Kingsville Dome project, $58,000 for the Rosita project and $313,000 for the Vasquez project. 
 
 
  Kingsville Dome Property     
        The Kingsville Dome property consists of mineral leases from private landowners on about 2,434 gross and 2,227 net acres located in
central Kleberg County, Texas. The leases provide for royalties based upon a percentage of uranium sales of 6.25% to 9.375%. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2000 to 2007, however we hold
most of these leases by production; and with a few minor exceptions, all the leases contain clauses that permit us to extend the leases not held by production by payment of an annual per acre royalty
ranging from $10 to $30. We have paid such royalties on all material acreage. 
        The
net carrying value of the property was approximately $5,039,000 at December 31, 2011. Such assets consisted of plant buildings/uranium processing/drying facilities
($4,178,000), and restoration and other equipment ($861,000). The net carrying value of the property was approximately $5,355,000 at December 31, 2010. Such assets consisted of plant
buildings/uranium processing/drying facilities ($4,285,000) and restoration and other equipment ($1,070,000). 
 
 
  Vasquez Property     
        The Company has a mineral lease on 872 gross and net acres located in southwestern Duval County, in South Texas. The primary term
expired in February 2008; however we hold the lease by production and reclamation activities. The lease provides for royalties based upon 6.25% of uranium sales below $25.00 per pound and royalty rate
increases on a sliding scale up to 10.25% for uranium sales occurring at or above $40.00 per pound. 
        The
net carrying value of the property was approximately $454,000 at December 31, 2011. Such assets consisted of plant buildings/uranium processing/drying facilities ($154,000)
and restoration and other equipment ($300,000). The net carrying value of the property was approximately $493,000 at December 31, 2010. Such assets consisted of plant buildings/uranium
processing/drying facilities ($154,000) and restoration and other equipment ($339,000). 
 
 
  Rosita Property     
        The Rosita property consists of mineral leases from private landowners on about 3,377 gross and net acres located in north-central
Duval County, Texas. The leases provide for sliding scale royalties 
F-15



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) 
based
on a percentage of uranium sales. Royalty percentages on average increase from 6.25% up to 18.25% when uranium prices reach $80.00 per pound. The leases have expiration dates ranging from 2012
to 2015. We are holding these leases by payment of rentals ranging from $10 to $30 per acre. 
        The
net carrying value of the Rosita property at December 31, 2011 was approximately $4,933,000. Such assets consisted of plant buildings/uranium processing/drying facilities
($4,800,000) and restoration and other equipment of ($133,000). The net carrying value of the Rosita property at December 31, 2010 was approximately $5,003,000. Such assets consisted of plant
buildings/uranium processing/drying facilities ($4,801,000) and restoration and other equipment of ($202,000). 
 
 
  Rosita South Property     
        The Rosita South property consists of mineral leases from private land owners on about 1,795 gross acres and 1,479 net acres located in
Duval County near its Rosita property. 
        The
net carrying value of the property at December 31, 2011 was approximately $2,785,000. Such assets consisted of mineral rights ($589,000), evaluation costs ($2,022,000) and
permits/licenses ($174,000). The net carrying value of the property at December 31, 2010 was approximately $2,744,000. Such assets consisted of mineral rights ($548,000), evaluation costs
($2,022,000) and permits/licenses ($174,000). 
 
 
  Los Finados Project     
        The Los Finados Project consists of an exploration lease from private land owners on about 53,524 gross acres located in Kenedy County
near its Kingsville Dome property. The exploration rights to the Los Finados project were acquired in December 2010. Evaluation of the uranium mineralization of this property began in the second
quarter of 2011 and may continue for up to three years. The lease option agreement included a $1 million fee paid at signing. The lease option includes a three phase exploration program that
requires a minimum exploration obligation of one hundred exploration wells or $1.0 million investment in the first year, an additional two hundred exploration wells or $1.5 million
investment in the second year and, in the third year, an additional two hundred exploration wells or $2.0 million investment. The Company made the decision to continue phase two of the
exploration program in November 2011. The timing for the Company's decision to continue exploration under phase three of the program is November 30, 2012. Investment or drilling in excess of
the minimum requirement in any year counts toward the following year's requirements. 
        In
May 2011, the Company entered into an exploration agreement with Cameco Texas, Inc. ("CTI"), a subsidiary of Cameco (NYSE: CCJ) on the Los Finados project. The agreement with
CTI also includes a three phase exploration program. Phase I of the program was completed in November, 2011 and following Phase I, the decision was made to continue onto Phase II.
Under this agreement, CTI will fund the majority of the exploration costs and can earn up to a 70% interest in the project in consideration for their investment. Upon execution of the exploration
agreement, CTI paid the Company $300,000. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company has incurred and billed approximately $1.2 million in costs to CTI under the exploration
agreement. 
        At
the conclusion of the exploration program, the parties may enter into an operating joint venture to develop and produce any discovered uranium resources and reserves. The uranium
would be 
F-16



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) 
processed
at URI's Kingsville Dome or Rosita processing facility, with CTI's share of production being processed under a toll processing agreement with URI. 
        Capital
expenditures for 2011 totaled approximately $88,000 and were related to land acquisition and depreciable equipment. Such expenditures were offset by the $300,000 payment received
by CTI in connection with the execution of the exploration agreement. The net carrying value of the property at December 31, 2011 was approximately $949,000. Such assets consisted of the
acquisition costs to obtain
the mineral rights to the property ($919,000) and permits/licenses ($30,000). The net carrying value of the property at December 31, 2010 was approximately $1,169,000. Such assets consisted
entirely of the acquisition costs to obtain the mineral rights to the property. 
 
 
  Churchrock Properties     
        The Churchrock project encompasses about 3,458 gross and net acres. The properties are located in McKinley County, New Mexico and
consist of three parcels, known as Section 8, Section 17 and Mancos. None of these parcels lies within the area generally recognized as constituting the Navajo Reservation. We own the
mineral estate in fee for both Section 17 and the Mancos properties. We own patented mining claims on Section 8. 
        The
surface estate on Section 17 is owned by the United States Government and held in trust for the Navajo Nation. We have royalty obligations ranging from 5% to
61/4% and a 2% overriding royalty obligation to the Navajo Nation for surface use agreements. 
        Permitting
activities are currently ongoing on both of these properties. The net carrying value of these properties was $2,152,000 and $2,094,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively and the assets consisted of mineral rights and permitting/licensing costs. 
 
 
  Crownpoint Property     
        The Crownpoint properties are located in the San Juan Basin, 22 miles northeast of our Churchrock deposits and 35 miles northeast of
Gallup, New Mexico, adjacent to the town of Crownpoint. The Properties consist of 640 gross and 556 net acres. 
        The
net carrying value of these properties was $883,000 and $885,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and consisted primarily of mineral rights, permits/licenses and
plant buildings and equipment. 
 
 
  West Largo and Roca Honda     
        In March 1997, we acquired the fee interest in 177,000 acres in northwestern New Mexico. Several significant occurrences of uranium
mineralization are known to be within this acreage, including a uranium mineralized property called the West Largo and a uranium mineralized property called Roca Honda. 
        The
West Largo property is about 21 miles north of the town of Milan and about 1.5 miles west of State Highway 509 in McKinley County, New Mexico. The property lies about 3 miles to the
northwest of the Ambrosia Lake District, a major producer of uranium by means of underground operations from the late 1950s to the early 1980s. 
F-17



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (Continued) 
        The
Roca Honda property lies about 4 miles northwest of the town of San Mateo in McKinley County, New Mexico. We also own 36 unpatented mining claims encompassing approximately 640 acres
that are adjacent to the fee land. The net carrying value of the properties was $415,000 and $398,000 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
 5. CONTRACT COMMITMENTS  
 
    Sales Contracts     
        In March 2006, we entered into new sales contracts with Itochu Corporation ("Itochu") and UG U.S.A., Inc. ("UG") that superseded
the previously existing contracts. Each contract provides for delivery of one-half of our actual production from our properties in Texas currently owned or hereafter acquired by the
Company (excluding certain large potential exploration plays). The Itochu contract contains separate pricing terms for the Vasquez property that are no longer applicable since Vasquez has reached the
end of its useful life. Our Texas production will be sold to Itochu at a price equal to the average spot price for the eight weeks prior to the date of delivery less $7.50 per pound, with a floor for
the spot price of $37 per pound and a ceiling of $43 per pound. If the spot price is over $50 per pound the price will be increased by 50% of such excess. The floor and ceiling and sharing arrangement
over the ceiling applies to 3.65 million pounds of deliveries, after which there is no floor or ceiling. Itochu has the right to cancel any deliveries on six-month's notice. Uranium
deliveries from the inception of the contracts through December 31, 2011 have totaled approximately 510,000 pounds to Itochu and 480,000 pounds to UG. 
        Under
the amended Itochu contract there was potential for reinstatement of the original contract terms if we terminated our joint venture with Itochu to develop our Churchrock property
in New Mexico. On March 6, 2009, Itochu terminated the joint venture. The only consequence of the termination is that for future sales made with sales prices in excess of $43 per pound, we will
not receive 30% of the amount of the spot price that exceeds the ceiling price for future uranium sales from $43 per pound to $50 per pound. 
        Under
the UG contract all production from our Texas properties will be sold at a price equal to the month-end long-term contract price for the second month prior
to the month of delivery less $6 per pound until (i) 600,000 pounds have been sold in a particular delivery year and (ii) an aggregate of 3 million pounds of uranium has been
sold. After the 600,000 pounds in any year and 3 million pounds total have been sold, UG will have a right of first refusal to purchase other Texas production at a price equal to the average
spot price for a period prior to the date of delivery less 4%. In 2006, we paid UG $12 million in cash to restructure its previously existing contract. 
F-18




 










Table of Contents 

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010  
 6. LONG-TERM DEBT  
 
    Summary of Long-Term Debt     
















 
 
At December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Long-term debt of the Company consists of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Crownpoint property
 
$
450,000
 
$
450,000
 


 Capital leases
 
 
119,232
 
 
202,771
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
569,232
 
 
652,771
 


 Less—Current portion
 
 
(65,161
)
 
(83,183
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total long-term debt
 
$
504,071
 
$
569,588
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Maturities
of long-term debt and capital leases are as follows: 
















For the Twelve Months Ended:



 
Long-Term Debt 
 
Capital Leases 
 


 December 31, 2012
 
$
—
 
$
76,740
 


 December 31, 2013
 
 
—
 
 
53,109
 


 December 31, 2014
 
 
—
 
 
14,739
 


 December 31, 2015
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 December 31, 2016 and beyond
 
 
450,000
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Totals
 
$
450,000
 
$
144,588
 


 Less amounts representing imputed interest
 
 
 
 
 
(25,356
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Present value of future payments
 
 
 
 
$
119,232
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 7. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY  
 
    Equity Infusion—ATM Sales     
        On October 31, 2011, the Company, entered into an ATM Sales Agreement with BTIG, pursuant to which the Company may sell from
time to time, shares of its common stock through an "at-the-market" share offering program under its currently effective registration statement on Form S-3.
The Company may sell up to $15,000,000 in aggregate offering price of its common stock through BTIG, acting as sales agent. On October 31, 2011, the Company filed a prospectus supplement with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the offering. The Company will pay BTIG a commission equal to 3.0% of the gross proceeds from the sale of any shares pursuant to the ATM Sales
Agreement. The Company raised additional capital in November and December 2011through the ATM Sales Agreement. Under the transactions, a total of 476,644 shares of common stock were sold with net
proceeds of approximately $325,000. 
 
 
  Equity Infusion—Public Offering     
        The Company raised additional capital in June and July 2010 through an underwritten public offering. Under the transactions, a total of
27,142,830 shares of common stock were sold in the offering 
F-19



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 7. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued) 
with
net proceeds of approximately $10.2 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses. 
        The
Company raised additional capital in November 2010 through an underwritten public offering. Under the transaction, a total of 8,222,500 shares of common stock were sold in the
offering with net proceeds of approximately $8.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. 
 
 
  Deferred Compensation     
        The Company has a 1999 Deferred Compensation Plan (the "1999 Plan") and Deferred Compensation Plans for 2000-2001, 2002,
2003 and 2004 (the "2000-2004 Plans") whereby executive officers and directors were permitted to defer up to 100% of their compensation for the years 1999-2004. The
participants elected to receive the deferred amount in shares of our Common Stock valued at $0.80 per share. In December 2005, the 1999 Plan and the 2000-2004 Plans were amended, extending
the election of the participants under the plans to receive their deferred compensation until January 11, 2011. On January 11, 2011 the participants elected to receive restricted stock
totaling 885,021 shares in lieu of the cash due under the deferred compensation plans. 
 
 
  Warrants     
        In connection with the May 2008 equity infusion, the Company issued warrants to purchase 988,771 additional shares of common stock at a
price of $5.78 per share. These warrants expire in May 2013 and are outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2011. 
 8. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS  

        Our stock based compensation programs consist of stock options granted to employees and directors and restricted stock grants made to employees. Stock compensation expense for the year
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 of $884,000, $1,032,000 and $1,258,000, respectively, was recorded to general and administrative expenses. The Company has not recognized a tax benefit
from the stock compensation expense because the Company considers it is more likely than not that the related deferred tax assets, which have been reduced by a full valuation allowance, will not be
realized. 
 
 
  Stock Options     
 Employee Stock Options  
        The Company has two stock Incentive Plans for Employees, both of which were approved by the Company's shareholders. 
        Under
the 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1995 Plan") all available and outstanding options have been granted and are currently exercisable. Under the Company's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
(the "2004 Plan") a total of 1,750,000 shares may be issued upon exercise of options granted under the 2004 Plan. Employee stock options generally vest ratably over a 3 or 4 year time frame and
have a contractual term
of 10 years. At December 31, 2011, 1,208,041 shares were available for future grants under the 2004 Plan. 
F-20



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 8. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
        In
June 2011, the Company's Executive Chairman was granted options under the 2004 Plan to purchase a total of 16,667 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.73 per share. The
stock option grant shares vest ratably over 4 years. 
        In
April 2010, three employees and one officer of the Company were granted options under the 2004 Plan to purchase a total of 85,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise
price of $0.73 per share. These options vest ratably over 3 years. 
        In
December 2010, four officers of the Company were granted options under the 2004 Plan to purchase a total of 95,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $3.29
per share. These options vest over one year. 
        On
September 3, 2009, in connection with the resignation of David N. Clark as President and CEO, the Company and Mr. Clark entered into an agreement which extended to
September 3, 2011 the termination date for the stock options previously granted to Mr. Clark and the immediate vesting of 12,500 previously granted stock options scheduled to vest in
June 2010. The Company recognized $260,000 of stock compensation expense in the third quarter of 2009 in connection with the modification of these stock options. 
 2004 Directors' Plan—Options  
        On June 2, 2004 the Company adopted the 2004 Directors' Stock Option Plan (the "2004 Directors' Plan"). Under the 2004
Directors' Plan, each non-employee director on the date the Plan was adopted was granted an option to purchase 75,000 shares of Common Stock. Each non-employee Director elected
or appointed to the Board of Directors for the first time will be granted an option to purchase 25,000 shares of Common Stock and, each Non-Employee Director shall be granted an option to
purchase 25,000 shares either, (a) upon his or her reelection at an annual meeting of the Company's stockholders or (b) in any calendar year in which an annual meeting of shareholders is
not held, on June 1 of such year. 
        In
June 2006, the Directors' Stock Option Plan was amended to increase the initial grants and the annual re-election grants to non-employee Directors to 50,000
shares of Common Stock. The 2004 Directors' Plan replaces an earlier plan that expired in 2004. None of such options remains outstanding at December 31, 2011. 
        In
June 2010, the Directors' Stock Option Plan was amended and restated ("Amended 2004 Directors' Plan") to allow for the directors to be issued stock options or restricted common shares
as determined by the Company and increased the available shares to be granted to 2,500,000 shares. At December 31, 2011, 1,356,250 shares were available for future grants under the Amended 2004
Directors' Plan. 
        At
the June 2011 annual meeting of the stockholders, each of the non-employee directors of the Company (Leland O. Erdahl, Terence J. Cryan, and Marvin K. Kaiser) was granted
options under the Amended 2004 Directors' Plan to purchase 50,001 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $1.73 per share. The stock option grant shares vest ratably over
4 years. 
        In
January 2010, Robert M. Gallagher, a non-employee director, was granted options under the 2004 Directors' Plan to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock at
an exercise price of 
F-21



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 8. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
$0.76
per share. Effective September 30, 2010, Robert M. Gallagher resigned as a member of the Board of Directors. 
        In
connection with this change, the terms of the equity awards granted to Mr. Gallagher were modified whereby the vesting attributable to 25% of the 50,000 share stock option
grant made on January 20, 2010 was accelerated to the date of his resignation and the exercise period was extended to September 30, 2012. In addition, the vesting attributable to 25% of
the 50,000 share restricted stock grant made on June 3, 2010 was accelerated to the date of his resignation. The remaining unvested equity awards were forfeited upon his resignation. Additional
stock compensation expense of $6,000 was recognized in 2010 in connection with the modifications of these options. 
        At
the June 2009 annual meeting of the stockholders, each of the non-employee directors of the Company (Leland O. Erdahl, Terence J. Cryan and Marvin K. Kaiser) was granted
an option under the 2004 Directors' Plan to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $1.49 per share. 
        The
following table summarizes stock options outstanding and changes during the year ended December 31, 2011: 






















 
 
Outstanding Options 
 


 
 
Number of
Shares 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price 
 
Weighted Average
Remaining
Contractual
Term
(in years) 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 Options outstanding at January 1, 2010
 
 
3,819,838
 
$
2.70
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
66,668
 
$
1.73
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
(37,150
)
$
0.76
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Canceled or forfeited
 
 
(864,125
)
$
3.10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
2,985,231
 
$
2.59
 
 
5.13
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Options exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
2,749,397
 
$
2.65
 
 
3.67
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0, $2,976 and $0, respectively. Cash proceeds from options exercised
during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2001 was $28,234, $798, and $0, respectively. 
F-22



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 8. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
        Stock
options outstanding and currently exercisable at December 31, 2011 are as follows: 

























 
 
Options Outstanding 
 
Options Exercisable 
 


Stock Option Plan



 
Number of
Options
Outstanding 
 
Weighted Average
Remaining
Contractual Life
(in years) 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise price 
 
Number of
Options
Exercisable 
 
Weighted Average
Exercise Price 
 


 1995 Stock Incentive Plan
 
 
1,834,062
 
 
2.6
 
$
1.31
 
 
1,834,062
 
$
1.31
 


 2004 Employee Incentive Plan
 
 
407,418
 
 
6.6
 
 
3.45
 
 
334,085
 
 
4.00
 


 2004 Directors Plan
 
 
743,751
 
 
6.1
 
 
5.26
 
 
581,250
 
 
6.12
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
2,985,231
 
 
4.0
 
$
2.59
 
 
2,749,397
 
$
2.65
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Total
estimated unrecognized compensation cost from unvested stock options as of December 31, 2011 was approximately $231,000, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted
average period of approximately 1 to 2 years. 
        The
fair value of each option is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The option-pricing model requires a number of assumptions, of which the most
significant are, expected stock price volatility, the expected pre-vesting forfeiture rate and the expected option term (the amount of time from the grant date until the options are
exercised or expire). Expected volatility was calculated based upon actual historical stock price movements through the measurement date of the stock option grant. Expected pre-vesting
forfeitures were estimated based on actual historical pre-vesting forfeitures over the most recent periods ending December 31, 2011 for the expected option term. The expected option
term was estimated based on historical averages over the most recent periods ending December 31, 2011. The exercise price for the options granted under the plans is the fair market value of the
Common Stock on the date granted. The terms of the options are determined by the Board of Directors upon grant; however, no options may be exercised after a period of ten years. 
        Using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the weighted average assumptions for grants in 2011: fair market value: $1.41, $1.28 and $0,76; expected volatility of 91%, 87% and 93%; and
risk-free interest rate of 2.75%, 1.875% and 3.0%. An expected life of 7.69 years, 6.31 years and 5 years was used for the options granted. The weighted average fair
value of the options granted in 2011 was $1.32. 
        Using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the weighted average assumptions for grants in 2010: fair market value: $0.73, $0.70, $0.69 and $2.51; expected volatility of 144%, 147%,
103% and 89%; and risk-free interest rate of 4.25%, 4.75%, 3.75% and 3.125%. An expected life of 7.91 years, 7.27 years, 2 years and 6.32 years was used for the
options granted. The weighted average fair value of the options granted in 2010 was $1.77. 
        Using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model, the weighted average assumptions for grants in 2009: fair market value: $1.44, expected volatility of 143% and risk-free
interest rate of 4.5%. An expected life of 8.01 years was used for the options granted. The weighted average fair value of the options granted in 2009 was $1.44. 
F-23



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 8. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
 
 
  Restricted Stock Plans     
 2007 Plan  
        In 2007, the Board of Directors adopted and the shareholders approved the 2007 Restricted Stock Plan (the "2007 Plan"). The 2007 Plan
permits the Company to make Restricted Stock grants of shares of Common Stock to management personnel and other key employees of the Company. Unless otherwise specified by the Committee, the term of
the restricted period for any Restricted Stock grant under the 2007 Plan shall not be less than five years from the date of grant. Employee participants who receive Restricted Stock grants will have
all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote the shares of Restricted Stock that are the subject of the grant and the right to receive any regular cash dividends paid out of current
earnings. The Company may issue an aggregate maximum of 1,500,000 shares of Common Stock under the 2007 Plan. At December 31, 2011, 450,853 shares were available for future grants under the
2007 Plan. 
        In
June 2011, the Company's Executive Chairman was granted 33,333 shares of restricted common stock of the Company at a value of $1.73 per share under the 2007 Plan. The restricted
common stock vests ratably over 4 years. 
        On
January 4, and April 1, 2010, 65,820 and 73,751 shares of restricted stock were granted, respectively to executive officers of the Company in connection with a cash
conservation plan for 2010. All of these shares were scheduled to vest one year from the date of grant. On November 12, 2010, 20,000 restricted shares granted to the CEO were cancelled. 
        During
2009, a total of 426,243 shares of restricted stock were granted under the 2007 Plan to executive officers in connection with a cash conservation plan for 2009. All of these
shares were scheduled to vest one year from the date of grant. On September 3, 2009 the vesting schedule with respect to the former CEO's 115,628 restricted shares was modified to provide for
immediate vesting.
The Company has recognized $110,000 of compensation cost for modification of the vesting schedule for these restricted shares. 
        In
September 2009, the Company hired Donald C. Ewigleben as the Company's President, CEO and COO. In connection with the hire, the Company granted Mr. Ewigleben a total of 400,000
restricted shares of the Company's common stock under the 2007 Plan. 100,000 of these shares vest on March 3, 2010; the remaining 300,000 shares vest 1/3 on each of
September 3, 2010, 2011 and 2012. The vesting of the remaining 300,000 restricted shares is also subject to certain annual performance objectives as specified in Mr. Ewigleben's
employment agreement. In connection with the 2010 and 2011 performance objectives, 20,000 and 16,667 restricted shares for Mr. Ewigleben were cancelled, respectively. 
 2004 Directors' Plan—Restricted Shares  
        At the June 2011 annual meeting of the stockholders, each of the non-employee directors of the Company (Leland O. Erdahl,
Terence J. Cryan, and Marvin K. Kaiser) was granted restricted stock under the 2004 Directors' Plan to purchase 33,333 shares of the Company's common stock valued at $1.73 per share. The restricted
common stock vest ratably over 4 years. 
F-24



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 8. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS (Continued) 
        At
the June 2010 annual meeting of the stockholders, each of the non-employee directors of the Company (Leland O. Erdahl, Terence J. Cryan, Marvin K. Kaiser and Robert M.
Gallagher) was granted restricted stock under the 2004 Directors' Plan to purchase 50,000 shares of the Company's common stock valued at $0.53 per share. Upon the resignation of Mr. Gallagher
in September 2010, 25% of the 50,000 share was vested on the date of his resignation. The remaining unvested equity awards were forfeited upon his resignation. 
        The
total estimated unrecognized compensation cost from the unvested restricted grants at December 31, 2011 was approximately $271,000, which is expected to be recognized over the
weighted average vesting period of 1.5 years. 
        A
summary of the status of non-vested shares for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, is presented below: 
















 
 
Number of
Shares 
 
Weighted
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value 
 


 Non-vested at January 1, 2009
 
 
70,000
 
$
8.21
 


 Granted
 
 
826,243
 
$
0.85
 


 Vested
 
 
(177,628
)
$
3.31
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2009
 
 
718,615
 
$
0.96
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
339,571
 
$
0.63
 


 Vested
 
 
(505,115
)
$
0.87
 


 Cancelled
 
 
(57,500
)
$
0.68
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2010
 
 
495,571
 
$
0.86
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
133,332
 
$
1.73
 


 Vested
 
 
(279,071
)
$
0.85
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-vested at December 31, 2011
 
 
349,832
 
$
1.20
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Restricted
stock grants are valued using the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. 
F-25



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 9. FEDERAL INCOME TAXES  

        The deferred federal income tax asset (liability) consists of the following: 



















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Property development costs—net of amortization
 
$
10,399,000
 
$
11,583,000
 
$
13,018,000
 


 Accelerated depreciation
 
 
(105,000
)
 
(151,000
)
 
(193,000
)


 Restoration reserves
 
 
(2,080,000
)
 
(1,560,000
)
 
(1,093,000
)


 Net operating loss carryforwards utilized
 
 
143,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Net operating loss and percentage depletion carryforwards
 
 
39,496,000
 
 
34,766,000
 
 
29,621,000
 


 Valuation allowance and other—net
 
 
(47,853,000
)
 
(44,638,000
)
 
(41,353,000
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total deferred income tax asset (liability)
 
$
—
 
$
—
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Major
items causing the Company's tax provision to differ from the federal statutory rate of 34% were: 




























 
 
For the Twelve Months Ended December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 
 
Amount 
 
% of Pretax
Income 
 
Amount 
 
% of Pretax
Income 
 
Amount 
 
% of Pretax
Income 
 


 Pretax income (loss)
 
$
(11,199,397
)
 
—
 
$
(10,354,567
)
 
—
 
$
(10,065,862
)
 
—
 


 Pretax income (loss) times statutory tax rate
 
 
(3,808,000
)
 
34
%
 
(3,521,000
)
 
34
%
 
(3,422,000
)
 
34
%


 Increases (decreases) in taxes resulting from:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
3,808,000
 
 
 (34
)%
 
3,521,000
 
 
 (34
)%
 
2,105,000
 
 
 (21
)%


 Correction to deferred tax
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
%
 
1,317,000
 
 
 (13
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income tax benefit
 
$
0
 
 
0
%
$
0
 
 
0
%
$
0
 
 
0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
Company also has available for regular federal income tax purposes at December 31, 2011 estimated net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards of approximately
$116,165,000, before limitations which expire primarily in 2012 through 2031, if not previously utilized. Following the issuance of the Company's Common Stock in 2001, use of the Company's NOL will be
severely limited on an annual and aggregate basis. For this reason, and due to no expectation of profitable operations in the near future, the NOL has a full valuation allowance and is not shown as a
deferred tax asset in the table above. 
F-26



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 9. FEDERAL INCOME TAXES (Continued) 
        The
Company's tax years ended 2005 to 2010 remain open to examination for Federal tax purposes. 
 10. OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES AND DEFERRED CREDITS  

        Other long-term liabilities and deferred credits on the balance sheet consisted of: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Reserve for future restoration and reclamation costs (Asset Retirement Obligations), net of current portion of $1,227,000 and $1,240,000 in 2011 and 2010,
 respectively. (Note 2)
 
$
3,508,634
 
$
3,804,057
 


 Royalties payable
 
 
500,000
 
 
500,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
4,008,634
 
$
4,304,057
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
following table shows the change in the balance of the restoration and reclamation liability (Asset Retirement Obligation) during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010: 
















 
 
December 31, 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Reserve for future restoration and reclamation costs at January 1,
 
$
5,043,645
 
$
5,526,949
 


 Changes in cash flow estimates
 
 
1,101,234
 
 
733,981
 


 Costs incurred
 
 
(1,530,303
)
 
(1,373,228
)


 Accretion expense
 
 
121,183
 
 
155,943
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Reserve for future restoration and reclamation costs at December 31,
 
$
4,735,759
 
$
5,043,645
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES  

        The Company's mining operations are subject to federal and state regulations for the protection of the environment, including water quality. These laws are constantly changing and
generally becoming more restrictive. The ongoing costs of complying with such regulations have not been significant to the Company's annual operating costs. Future mine closure and reclamation costs
are provided for as each pound of uranium is produced on a unit-of-production basis. The Company reviews its reclamation obligations each year and determines the appropriate
unit charge. The Company also evaluates the status of current environmental laws and their potential impact on their accrual for costs. The Company believes its operations are in compliance with
current environmental regulations. 
        The
Company is from time to time involved in various legal proceedings of a character normally incident to its business. Management believes it has meritorious defenses in all such
proceedings and is not aware of any material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations from such proceedings. 
F-27



 
Table of Contents

URANIUM RESOURCES, INC. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND 2010 
 11. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (Continued) 

Registration
Statement 
        In
connection with our May 2008 private placement, the Company executed a registration rights agreement pursuant to which the shares issued in the private
placement were registered. The registration rights agreement provides for penalties in the event the registration statement fails to remain effective. At December 31, 2011, the Company's
registration statement was and remains effective. 
Compensation
Agreements 
        The
Company has entered into Compensation Agreements with the Executive Officers of the Company, with the exception of the CEO/President/COO, that provide
that, in the event of a change in control, such officers will have certain rights and benefits for a period of thirty-six months for the Executive Chairman of the Company and
twenty-four months for the other officers, following such change in control. The Compensation Agreements provide that the executive's base salary payments shall be made on a monthly basis
for the duration of the term and any incentive payments shall be paid annually until the obligation to make such payments expires. In September, 2009 the Company entered into a Compensation Agreement
with the CEO/President/COO of the Company that provides that, in the event he terminates employment following a change in control he would be entitled to two years salary and bonus plus medical and
dental benefits for up to 12 months. A change in control would also result in the immediate vesting of all unvested restricted shares of stock granted to him. 
 12. SUBSEQUENT EVENT  

        In March 2012, the Company executed a merger agreement to acquire 100% of the equity capital (the "Transaction") of Neutron Energy, Inc. ("Neutron"). As part of the Transaction,
Resource Capital Fund V L.P. ("RCF") has agreed to provide $20 million in funding to retire the majority of Neutron's outstanding debt owed to RMB Australia Holdings Limited ("RMB"). The
remainder of Neutron debt owed to RMB will be converted into URI common stock, resulting in URI acquiring Neutron on a debt-free basis. The Transaction, which has been unanimously approved
by the Boards of Directors of both URI and Neutron, is subject to shareholder approval of each company. 
        URI
has also entered into an investment agreement with RCF pursuant to which RCF will provide $10 million in funding to URI through the purchase of 10.3 million of the
Company's common stock. This $10 million capital infusion was completed on March 9, 2012. A total of 37 million URI common shares will be issued for total consideration
$38.1 million based on URI's closing stock on February 24,
2012 of $1.03 for the merger and the $10 million financing. Upon closing of the merger, URI, at its option, can receive an additional $5 million in RCF financing. 
        Under
the terms of the transaction, the Company has agreed to fund the operating and development budgets for Neutron, up to $4.5 million, prior to the closing of the transaction.
Prior to the execution of the merger agreement the Company purchased certain assets and other licensing agreements from Neutron for $200,000. 
F-28




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  EXHIBIT INDEX     












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
2.1
*
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Uranium Resources, Inc., URI Merger Corporation and Neutron Energy, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7,
2012)


 
3.1
*
Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, dated February 15, 2004 (filed with the Company's Registration Statement on Form SB-2 dated July 26, 2004, SEC File
Number 333-117653).


 
3.1.1
*
Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (filed with the Company's Form 8-K dated April 11, 2006, SEC File Number 000-17171 and as corrected in the Company's
Form 8-K dated December 7, 2007).


 
3.2
*
Restated Bylaws of the Company (filed with the Company's Form 10-K on March 10, 2010).


 
4.2
*
Stockholders' Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and between Uranium Resources, Inc. and Resource Capital Fund V L.P. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7, 2012)


 
4.2
*
Form of Warrant to Purchase Common Stock (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on May 19, 2008).


 
4.3
*
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Uranium Resources, Inc. and Resource Capital Fund V L.P. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7, 2012)


 
10.3
*
Amended and restated 1995 Stock Incentive Plan (filed with the Company's Form SB-2 Registration No. 333-117653 on July 26, 2005).


 
10.7
*
Summary of Supplemental Health Care Plan (filed with Amendment No. 1 to the Company's Form S-1 Registration Statement (File No. 33-32754) as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
February 20, 1990).


 
10.12
*
Compensation Agreement dated June 2, 1997 between the Company and Paul K. Willmott (filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated June 30, 1998, SEC File Number 000-17171).


 
10.13
*
Compensation Agreement dated June 2, 1997 between the Company and Richard A. Van Horn (filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated June 30, 1998, SEC File
Number 000-17171).


 
10.14
*
Compensation Agreement dated June 2, 1997 between the Company and Thomas H. Ehrlich (filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated June 30, 1998, SEC File Number 000-17171).


 
10.15
*
Compensation Agreement dated June 2, 1997 between the Company and Mark S. Pelizza (filed with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K dated June 30, 1998, SEC File Number 000-17171).


 
10.16
*
Shareholder Voting Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Uranium Resources, Inc. and certain specified shareholders of Neutron Energy, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on
March 7, 2012)




E-1



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.17
*
Release Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and between Kelsey Boltz, Gary Huber, James Graham, Edward Topham, John K. Campbell, Jerry Nelson, Henry G. Grundstedt, and Carolyn C. Loder , Neutron Energy,
 Inc. and Uranium Resources, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7, 2012)


 
10.18
*
Settlement Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Nuclear Fuel Cycle Consulting, LLC, Neutron Energy, Inc. and Uranium Resources, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on
March 7, 2012)


 
10.19
*
Investment Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Uranium Resources, Inc., Neutron Energy, Inc. and Resource Capital Fund V L.P. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7,
2012)


 
10.20
*
Credit and Funding Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Neutron Energy, Inc., Cibola Resources LLC and Uranium Resources, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7,
2012)


 
10.21
*
Pledge and Security Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among Uranium Resources, Inc. and Neutron Energy, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7, 2012)


 
10.22
*
Forbearance and Debt Conversion Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among RMB Australia Holdings, Ltd., RMB Resources, Inc., Uranium Resources, Inc., Neutron Energy, Inc. and Cibola
Resources, LLC. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7, 2012)


 
10.23
 
Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2012, by and among RMB Australia Holdings, Ltd., Uranium Resources, Inc., Neutron Energy, Inc., Cibola Resources, LLC and RMB Resources, Inc.
(filed with the Company's Form 8-K on March 7, 2012)


 
10.35
*
Uranium Resources, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (filed with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-QSB/A dated November 18, 2005, SEC File No. 000-17171).


 
10.37
*
Amended and Restated Uranium Supply Contract between Itochu Corporation and Uranium Resources, Inc. effective March 1, 2006 (filed with the Company's Form 10-KSB dated March 31, 2006, SEC file
Number 000-17171).


 
10.38
*
Agreement for the Sale of Uranium Concentrates between UG U.S.A., Inc. and Uranium Resources, Inc. dated March 31, 2006 (filed with the Company's Form 10-KSB dated March 31, 2006, SEC file
Number 000-17171).


 
10.43
*
Amended and Restated 2004 Directors' Stock Option Plan dated April 10, 2007 (filed with the Company's Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated April 11, 2007, SEC
File No. 333-133960)


 
10.43.1
*
Amended and Restated 2004 Directors' Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan dated April 1, 2010 (filed with the Company's Form 10-Q dated August 9, 2010, SEC File No. 000-17171).


 
10.44
*
Uranium Resources, Inc. 2007 Restricted Stock Plan (filed with the Company's Form 10-Q dated May 10,2007, SEC File No. 000-17171)


 
10.46
*
Letter Agreement dated September 3, 2009 between the Company and Donald C. Ewigleben (Filed with the Company's Form 8-K dated September 4, 2009, SEC File No. 001-33404).




E-2



 
Table of Contents












Exhibit
Number 
 
Description 


 
10.47
*
Consulting Services Agreement with RMG Consulting, LLC dated October 1, 2010 (Filed with the Company's Form 8-K dated October 4, 2010, SEC File No. 001-33404).


 
10.48
*
Uranium Mining Lease option Agreement dated December 1, 2010 between URI, Inc. and The John G. and Marie Stella Kenedy Memorial Foundation (filed with the Company's Form 10-K dated March 30, 2011,
SEC File No. 001-33404).


 
10.49
*
Exploration Agreement dated May 10, 2011 between URI, Inc. and Cameco Texas, Inc. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K dated May 13, 2011, SEC File No. 001-33404).


 

 
 
WHICH OF THE 11 EXHIBITS FILED WITH THE FORM 8-K ON 3/7/2012 NEED TO BE LISTED HERE—OR SHOULD THEY ALL BE LISTED?


 
10.50
*
At-The-Market Sales Agreement, dated October 28, 2011, between Uranium Resources, Inc. and BTIG, LLC. (filed with the Company's Form 8-K dated October 31, 2011, SEC File No. 001-33404)



 
14
*
Uranium Resources, Inc. Amended Code of Ethics for Senior Executives. (filed with the Company's Form 10-KSB dated March 30, 2004, SEC File No. 000-17171).


 
21
*
Subsidiaries of the Registrant


 
23.1
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm


 
23.2
 
Consent of Behre Dolbear & Company (USA)


 
31.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 
31.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 
32.1
 
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 
32.2
 
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 
101
 
The following financial information from the annual report on Form 10-K of Uranium Resources, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (extensible Business Reporting Language):
(i) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, (ii) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (iv) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity, and
(v) Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.








*Not
filed herewith. Incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 12b-32 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

E-3










