
10-K
1
a2207481z10-k.htm
10-K







Use these links to rapidly review the document
  Table of Contents 
  PART IV 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 3









 
Table of Contents 

 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549  
FORM 10-K  











ý
 
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


 For the fiscal year ended November 30, 2011 




Commission file number: 0-18926  
JOE'S JEANS INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 








Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 11-2928178
(I.R.S. Employer
Identification No.)



2340 South Eastern Avenue, Commerce, California 90040
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) 
Registrant's
telephone number, including area code: (323) 837-3700
Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
Common Stock, $0.10 par value
(Title of Class) 
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC
(NASDAQ Capital Market)
(Name of exchange on which registered) 
         Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act. Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act. Yes o    No ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes ý    No o 
         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter)
is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. ý 
         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of
"accelerated filer and large accelerated filer" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.) 















Large accelerated filer o
 
Accelerated filer o
 
Non-accelerated filer o (Do not check if a
smaller reporting company)
 
Smaller reporting company ý




         Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the
Act.) Yes o    No ý 
         The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant based on the closing price of
the registrant's common stock on The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. as of May 31, 2011, was approximately $41,301,000.00. 
         The
number of shares of the registrant's common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2012 was 66,205,824. 
         Documents
incorporated by reference: None.
  

   


 















Table of Contents 
 
 
  JOE'S JEANS INC.         FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT         FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 30, 2011     
    Table of Contents     

 














Item
Number



 
 
 
 


 
 
 PART I
 
 


 Item 1.
 
 Business
 
2


 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
 
10


 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
 
20


 Item 2.
 
 Properties
 
20


 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
 
20


 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosure
 
20


 
 
  PART II
 
 


 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 

21


 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data
 
22


 Item 7.
 
 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
23


 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
 
36


 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
37


 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
37


 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
 
37


 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
 
38


 
 
  PART III
 
 


 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
 

38


 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
 
42


 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
51


 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
 
54


 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
55


 
 
  PART IV
 
 


 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
 

57


 
 
 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
F-i


 Item 16.2
 
 Schedule II—Valuation of Qualifying Accounts
 
F-30


 
 
 Signature Page
 
 









 










Table of Contents 
 
 PART I  
 Forward-Looking Statements  
        Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or Annual Report, and in future filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, in our press releases or in our other public or shareholder communications that are not purely historical facts are forward-looking statements. Statements looking
forward in time are included in this Annual Report pursuant to the "safe harbor" provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements include, without
limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements, and may contain the words, "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate,"
"intend," "plan," "project," "will be," "will continue," "will likely result," and any variations of such words with similar meanings. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are
subject to certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict;
therefore, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in any such forward-looking statements. 
        Factors
that would cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risk factors contained or referenced under the headings "Business," "Risk Factors" and
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" set forth in this Annual Report. In particular, certain risks and uncertainties that we face include, but are
not limited to, risks associated with:


•the risk that we will be unsuccessful in gauging fashion trends and changing customer preferences;  
•the risk that changes in general economic conditions, consumer confidence or consumer spending patterns will have a
negative impact on our financial performance or strategies; 
•the risks associated with leasing retail space and operating our own retail stores;  
•the highly competitive nature of our business in the United States and internationally and our dependence on consumer
spending patterns, which are influenced by numerous other factors; 
•our ability to respond to the business environment and fashion trends; continued acceptance of the Joe's®
brand in the marketplace; 
•our ability to meet and maintain requirements for listing on Nasdaq; 
•successful implementation of any growth or strategic plans; 
•effective inventory management; 
•our ability to continue to have access on favorable terms to sufficient sources of liquidity necessary to fund ongoing
cash requirements of our operations, which access may be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including the reduced availability of credit, generally, and the substantial tightening of the
credit markets, including lending by financial institutions, who are sources of credit for us, the recent increase in the cost of capital, the level of our cash flows, which will be impacted by the
level of consumer spending and retailer and consumer acceptance of its products; 
•our ability to generate positive cash flow from operations; 
•competitive factors, including the possibility of major customers sourcing product overseas in competition with our
products; 
•the risk that acts or omissions by our third party vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation; 

1



 
Table of Contents


•a possible oversupply of denim in the marketplace; and 
•other risks. 

        Since
we operate in a rapidly changing environment, new risk factors can arise and it is not possible for our management to predict all such risk factors, nor can our management assess
the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements that only speak as of the date of this filing. 
        We
undertake no obligation to publicly revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or the occurrence of unanticipated events that occur subsequent to the
date of this Annual Report. As used in this Annual Report, the terms "we," "us," "our," "Joe's®," and "Joe's Jeans" refer to Joe's Jeans Inc. and our subsidiaries and affiliates,
unless the context indicates otherwise.  
 
    ITEM 1.    BUSINESS     
 Overview  
        We began our operations in April 1987 as Innovo, Inc., or Innovo, a Texas corporation, to manufacture and domestically
distribute cut and sewn canvas and nylon consumer products for the utility, craft, sports-licensed and advertising specialty markets. In 1990, Innovo merged into Elorac Corporation, a Delaware
corporation, and was renamed Innovo Group Inc. We have since evolved from producing craft and accessory products to designing and selling apparel products. 
        In
October 2007, we completed a merger with JD Holdings, Inc., or JD Holdings, the successor in interest to JD Design LLC, or JD Design, the entity from whom we originally
licensed the Joe's® brand. As a result of the merger, we acquired JD Holdings, which included all rights related to the Joe's® brand. This acquisition allowed us to focus our
operations on the Joe's® brand and its development. In fiscal 2007, we entered into our first license agreement for handbags and small leather goods bearing the Joe's® brand. 
        After
the acquisition, we focused our business on opening retail stores, improving international sales, increasing sales from our men's collection and enhancing the quality, fit and
products available in our collection beyond denim bottoms. We opened our first full price retail store in October 2008 in Chicago, Illinois and currently operate five full price retail stores and 17
outlet stores in outlet centers around the country. We believe that retail stores will enhance our net sales and gross profit and the outlet stores will allow us to sell our overstock or slow moving
items at higher profit margins. We continue to look for other retail leases for fiscal 2012 and beyond, but remain cautious about our retail store plans. 
        Beginning
in 2009, we began to re-examine our collection pieces and re-launched several product categories with their own unique branding along with the
Joe's® logo or name. In the fall of fiscal 2009, we launched a line of unisex woven shirts in different fits and fabrications called The Shirt by Joe's, which was followed by items in
other distinct product categories. In the Fall of 2011, we returned to branding our products cohesively under the name Joe's®. We believe that other products, such as tees, tops and
non-denim bottoms, when added to our core and fashion denim, will add to our overall business in fiscal 2012. In addition, we see growth for fiscal 2012 coming from our men's and
international business. We are also in the process of developing expanded product lines at lower price points to enhance our business. 
        Our
principal business activity is now the design, development and worldwide marketing of our Joe's® products, which include denim jeans, related casual wear and accessories.
Since the Joe's® brand 
2



 
Table of Contents
was
established in 2001, it is recognized in the premium denim industry, an industry term for denim jeans with price points generally of $120 or more, for its quality, fit and fashion-forward designs.
We focus on design, development and marketing and rely on third parties to manufacture our apparel products. We sell our products to numerous retailers, which include major department stores,
specialty stores, and distributors around the world and through our retail stores. 
 Principal Products and Revenue Sources  
        Our principal apparel products bear the Joe's® brand name. Our Joe's® product line includes women's and men's
denim jeans, pants, shirts, sweaters, jackets and other apparel products. We also offer women's handbags and clutches, children's products,
shoes, belts and leather goods under various license agreements and receive royalty payments based upon net sales of these products. Joe's® products are marketed to U.S. retailers through
third party showrooms located in New York and Los Angeles and to international retailers through international distributors, agents or licensed stores in the various countries. Joe's®
women's product line represents our largest source of revenue and consists primarily of denim jeans and pants in a variety of different fits, fabrics, washes and detailing. Every season, we offer new
and core basic styles to appeal to trendsetters and fashion-forward consumers. We believe our attention to fitting different body types gives us an advantage in the marketplace, as we can offer the
consumer a product designed and tailored to fit her needs. We have branded the different fit styles so that the consumer can differentiate and choose from the variety carried by the retailer. Our fit
styles include or have included over the years:


•Best Friend—a relaxed loose fit; 
•Chelsea—an ultra slim, skinny fit; 
•Cigarette—a straight and narrow fit; 
•Ex-Lover—a relaxed fit; 
•Honey—a curvy fit; 
•Icon—a high waist fit; 
•Provocateur—a petite fit with a shorter inseam; 
•Rocker—a lean flare fit; 
•Socialite—a classic bootcut fit; 
•Stardust—a super flare fit; 
•Starlet—a slim legged bootcut fit; 
•Twiggy—a taller fit with a longer inseam; and 
•Visionaire—a high waist bootcut fit. 

        For
our men's denim line, we carried over the concept from our women's line of offering a variety of different fits, fabrics, washes and detailing in our product selection. Similar to
our women's line, we offer certain core basic styles every season in addition to new styles. We also brand the fit styles, which include the Brixton, the Classic, the Outsider, the Rebel and the
Rocker. 
        Children's
product offerings include basic denim bottoms, tops, t-shirts and jackets for infants, toddlers, girls and boys. In the latter half of 2009, we licensed this
category to a related party in exchange for certain guaranteed minimums and royalty payments based upon net sales and in October 2011, we entered into a new license agreement with one of the
principals of the former licensee. We believe that licensing this product category will enhance our ability to produce and sell these products without requiring any additional capital investment or
incremental operating expenses by us. 
3



 
Table of Contents
        We
operate in two primary business segments: Wholesale and Retail. Our Wholesale segment is comprised of sales to retailers, specialty stores and distributors, revenue from licensing
agreements and includes expenses from marketing, sales, distribution and customer service departments. Also, some international sales are made directly to wholesale customers who operate retail
stores. Our Retail segment is comprised of sales to consumers through full-price retail stores, outlet stores and through the  www.joesjeans.com/shop internet site. Our Corporate and other is comprised
of expenses from corporate operations, which include the executive, finance,
legal, and human resources departments, design and production. 
 Product Design, Development and Sourcing  
        Our product development for Joe's® is managed internally by a team of designers led by Joe Dahan, our Creative
Director. This design team is responsible for the creation, development and coordination of the product group offerings within each collection. We typically develop four collections per year for
spring, summer, fall/back-to-school, and winter/holiday, with certain core basic styles offered throughout the year. Joe Dahan is an instrumental part of our design process.
When we acquired the Joe's® brand, we also entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Dahan. However, the loss of Mr. Dahan as an employee would not change any rights we
have to the Joe's® brand. While his current employment agreement contains customary provisions related to continued employment, we believe that should Mr. Dahan's employment
terminate, we would be able to find alternative sources for the development and design of our Joe's® products. See "Risk Factors—Our future success depends on our ability to
attract and retain talented personnel and retain our key employees, including our chief executive officer and creative director." 
        We
rely on third party manufacturers to manufacture all of our products for distribution. We manufacture our products in numerous countries, with most of our denim production in Mexico,
China and the United States, and our knits and other production in the United States, China, Hong Kong, India, Portugal, Peru, Mexico and Korea. We do not have a long-term supply agreement
with any of our third party manufactures or contractors, and we believe that there are a number of overseas and domestic contractors that could fulfill our requirements in the event that one of our
existing manufacturers would not be able to do so. We purchase products in various stages of production from partial to completed finished goods. We control production schedules in order to ensure
quality and timely deliveries. 
        During
fiscal 2010, we outsourced a portion of our warehouse and distribution services for the picking, packing and shipping of our Joe's® products to retailers. After the
end of fiscal 2010, we relocated our warehouse and distribution services to the site of our corporate headquarters and assumed all aspects of warehousing and distribution services internally. 
        We
purchase fabric from independent vendors located domestically and internationally. Our raw materials are principally blends of fabrics, yarns and threads and are available from
multiple sources. Our primary suppliers include Candiani, Isko and Italdenim for fabrics and American Zabin, Button Accessory, Revolution Group and COATS Mexico for trims. We do not enter into any
long term agreements with these suppliers nor are we substantially dependent on any one of them. We have not experienced any material shortage of raw material to meet our needs. We continue to explore
alternate inventory strategies designed to improve our gross margins. However, there can be no assurance that any change in sourcing will result in enhanced profit margins, similar quality or timely
deliveries, but we do believe that continuing to monitor this expense can be beneficial for the growth of our Joe's® brand. 
        In
the event we terminate any of our relationships with third parties or the economic climate or other factors result in a significant reduction in the number of contractors, our
business could be negatively impacted. At this time, we believe that we would be able to find alternative sources for 
4



 
Table of Contents
production
if this were to occur; however, no assurances can be given that a transition would not involve a disruption to our business. 
        We
generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, because we use some overseas or non-U.S. suppliers, the cost of these products may be affected by changes in the
value of the relevant currencies. Certain of our apparel purchases in the international markets will be subject to the risks associated with the importation of these types of products. See "Business-
Import and Export Restrictions and Other Governmental Regulations." 
        While
we attempt to mitigate our exposure to manufacturing risks, the use of independent suppliers reduces our control over production and delivery and exposes us to customary risks
associated with sourcing products from independent suppliers. Transactions with foreign manufacturers and suppliers are subject to the typical risks of doing business abroad, generally, such as the
cost of transportation and the imposition of import duties and restrictions. The countries in which our products are manufactured may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other
restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariff levels, which could affect our operations and our ability to import products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict the
likelihood or frequency of any such events occurring. See "Business—Import Restrictions and Other Governmental
Regulations." Furthermore, the inability of a manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of
our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices. Due to the seasonality of our business, and the apparel and
fashion business in particular, the dates on which customers require shipments of products from us are critical, as styles and consumer tastes change so rapidly and particularly from one season to the
next. Because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in quality by our third-party manufacturers could be detrimental not only to a particular
order, but also to our future relationship with that particular customer. 
        We
also require our independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations; however, we have no control over the ultimate actions of our independent
manufacturers. Despite our lack of control, we have internal operating guidelines to promote ethical business practices and our employees periodically visit and monitor the operations of our
independent manufacturers. We also use the services of a third party independent labor consulting service to conduct random, on-site audits as required by state labor laws to help minimize
our risk and exposure to unacceptable labor practice violations. 
 Merger Agreement, License Agreements and Trademarks  
        In February 2001, we acquired license rights to the name Joe's Jeans™, the JD stylized logo and the Joe's® mark
for most apparel and accessory products from JD Holdings, the successor-in-interest to JD Design. The license agreement contained a 10-year term with two
10-year renewal periods and required us to pay a three percent royalty on the net sales of Joe's® products to JD Holdings. However, as we began to focus our operations on the
Joe's® brand, we believed that by owning all rights to the Joe's® marks outright, we would eliminate any risks associated with the potential termination of the license
agreement and be able to control the direction of the brand and our company. On February 6, 2007, we entered into a merger agreement with JD Holdings to acquire JD Holdings, which included all
right, title and interest in the Joe's® brand and related marks. In exchange for the business of JD Holdings, after approval by our stockholders, we issued to Joe Dahan, the sole
stockholder of JD Holdings, 14,000,000 shares of our common stock and $300,000 in cash. As part of the merger consideration, we are also obligated to pay Mr. Dahan a percentage of our
gross profits above $11,251,000 until 2017. Mr. Dahan will be entitled to the following: (i) 11.33 percent of the gross profit from $11,251,000 to $22,500,000;
(ii) 3 percent of the gross profit from $22,501,000 to $31,500,000; 
5



 
Table of Contents
(iii) 2 percent
of the gross profit from $31,501,000 to $40,500,000; and (iv) 1 percent of the gross profit above $40,501,000. 
        We
believe that selectively licensing the Joe's® brand for certain product categories will broaden and enhance the products available under the brand name. Also, by licensing
categories, we will not incur significant capital investments or incremental operating expenses while providing us with royalty payments on net sales. There are certain minimum net sales that the
licensees are required to meet and the agreements generally have certain terms with renewal rights. As of February 28, 2012, we had four active license agreements for bags, belts, children's
products and shoes. 
        In
addition to the common law rights associated therewith, we own a variety of pending applications and registrations throughout the world for a variety of trademarks and service marks,
among which include "Joe's" and "JD" logos and "Joe's Jeans" as applied to apparel, footwear and/or other fashion accessories in numerous classes as well as for retail store services for such goods. 
        In
addition to the above, in the United States, we own five registrations for certain pocket stitch designs for jeans. As of February 28, 2012, we own approximately ten U.S.
registrations (excluding the aforementioned five registrations for certain pocket stitch designs for jeans) and 11 pending U.S. applications, all of which have successfully passed through publication
and have been allowed. 
        With
respect to foreign jurisdictions, we own, as of February 28, 2012, a variety of registrations and pending applications for the above-referenced marks as applied to apparel,
footwear and related fashion accessories. Approximately 46 trademark registrations have issued in jurisdictions such as Australia, Canada, China, the European Community which comprises 27 member
countries, Hong Kong, India, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, New Zealand, Russia, Switzerland and Turkey. We continue to prosecute 19 trademark applications in Mexico, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates
that we believe are necessary in order to protect and enforce our rights. 
 Sales, Distribution and Outsourcing Agreements  
        Domestically, we sell our Joe's® products to retailers and specialty stores through independent third party showrooms
located in Los Angeles and New York and through our own retail stores. At the showrooms, retailers review the latest collections offered and place orders. The showroom representatives provide us with
purchase orders from the retailers and
other specialty store buyers. Pursuant to our arrangement with each of these showrooms, we pay sales commissions at an agreed upon percentage of sales less discounts, returns and other credit
allowances. 
        We
sell our Joe's® products internationally through distributors and sales agents in various countries that are managed by us and consultants based in Europe and through
licensed stores. We believe that by working directly with our distributors and agents abroad rather than through a third party, we will be able to exercise more control and guidance over their sales.
Further, we expect to benefit in sales and profitability over the long term from selling our products directly to the distributors or through agents rather than through a third party. However, as we
develop our internal structure to support our international business, we continue to evaluate our options and review relationships in the international marketplace to create a strategy to improve and
grow international sales. 
        From
time to time, we previously outsourced our product fulfillment services, including our warehousing, distribution and customer service needs for our Joe's® products. In
fiscal 2011, we relocated our warehouse to the site of our corporate headquarters and assumed all aspects of warehousing and distribution internally. 
 Advertising, Marketing and Promotion  
        Historically, our advertising campaign for our Joe's® brand has been limited to strategic placement of advertising in areas
of high concentration of fashion advertising through billboard advertisement in 
6



 
Table of Contents
Los
Angeles, California, space on the tops of taxi cabs in New York City and, to a limited extent, print ads in magazines. We generally locate short term billboard advertising space in various
locations in and around New York City and Los Angeles. During fiscal 2011, we also placed ad campaigns in print magazines, such as InStyle, Elle, Vogue, Teen Vogue, Harper's,
GQ, and Vanity Fair, to support and promote the Joe's® brand and products. In addition, we utilize a public relation
firm to strategically place our products in magazines, editorials and with stylists. We also have an internal visual merchandiser who works with our retail stores and other customers to create the
Joe's® presentation of products to enhance sales. For example, many of our customers' stores have denim focus areas located within a department that are dedicated to selling and showcasing
our Joe's® merchandise on a year round basis. 
 Customers  
        Our Joe's® products are sold to consumers through high-end department stores and boutiques located throughout
the world and through our own retail stores. 
        We
currently sell to domestic department stores such as Macy's Inc., which includes Bloomingdale's and Macy's, Neiman Marcus, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue, Von Maur,
Lord & Taylor, Dillard's and Belk stores and specialty retailers such as American Rag, Anthropologie, E-Street Denim, Fred Segal, Kitson, M. Frederic, National Jeans/Denim Habitat,
Piperlime, Revolve Clothing, Ron Herman, Scoop NYC and Shop Bop in the United States. We sell internationally to retailers such as Galleries Lafayette, Franck & Fils Le Bon Marche and Le
Printemps in France; Barney's Japan, Isetan, Kitson and Mitsukoshi in Japan; Harrod's and House of Fraser in the United Kingdom; Ztampz in Hong Kong; Biesse, Excelsior, Gio Moretti and Morini in
Italy; Abseits and Eickhoff in Germany; Carouzos in Greece; Envols in China; TSUM in Russia; Santa Eulalia in Spain; NK in Sweden; and Beymen in Turkey. 
        The
Joe's® website, www.joesjeans.com, has been established to promote and advance the brand's image and to allow consumers to review and purchase online the latest
collection of products. The information available on Joe's® website is not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report. We currently use both online and print advertising to create
brand awareness with customers as well as consumers. 
        We
do not enter into long-term agreements with any of our customers. Instead, we receive individual purchase order commitments from our customers. A decision by the
controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise
purchased from us, or to change their manner of doing business with us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See "Risk Factors—A
portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers." 
        For
fiscal 2011, our ten largest customers and customer groups accounted for approximately 62 percent of our net sales. We believe that we would be able to find alternative
customers to purchase our products in the event of the loss of any of these existing customers. For example, our largest customer is Nordstrom Inc. and is the only customer that represented
over 10 percent of our net sales in fiscal 2011. 
 Seasonality of Business and Working Capital  
        Products are designed and marketed primarily for four principal selling seasons: spring, summer,
fall/back-to-school and winter/holiday. Typically, we have approximately a 12 to 14 week turnaround 
7



 
Table of Contents
time
between the time we book an order and when we ship it. Our primary booking periods for the retail sales seasons are as follows: 











Retail Sales Season



 
Primary Booking Period 


Spring
 
September - November


Summer
 
November - March


Fall/Back-to-School
 
February - May


Winter/Holiday
 
June - August




        We
have historically experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonal fluctuations in our net sales. A significant amount of our net sales are realized during the third and
fourth quarter when we ship orders taken during earlier months. For fiscal 2011, we funded our liquidity needs through cash from operations and cash availability under our financing agreements with
CIT Commercial Services, a unit of CIT Group Inc., or CIT. If sales are materially different from seasonal norms, our annual operating results could be materially affected. Accordingly, our
results for the individual quarters are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for the entire year. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for further discussion of our financing agreements with CIT. 
 Credit and Collection  
        We currently extend credit to a majority of our larger customers, who purchase our products from us at wholesale prices. Our decision
to extend credit is based on factors such as credit approval by CIT under our factoring arrangements, past credit history, reputation of creditworthiness within our industry and timelines of payments
made to us. We generally extend this credit without requiring collateral. A small percentage of our customers are required to pay by either cash before delivery, credit card or cash on delivery, or
C.O.D., which is also based on such factors as lack of credit history, reputation (or lack thereof) within our industry and/or prior payment history. For those customers to whom we extend credit,
typical terms are net 30 to 60 days. Based on industry practices, financial awareness of the customers with whom we conduct business and business experience of our industry, our management
exercises professional judgment in determining which customers will be extended credit. We are exposed to some collection risk for receivables which were factored with recourse where CIT did not
accept the credit risk. However, the aggregate amount of exposure is generally low and, therefore, we believe that the credit risk associated with our extension of credit is minimal. 
 Backlog  
        Although we may, at any given time, have significant business booked in advance of ship dates, customers' purchase orders are typically
filled and shipped within two to six weeks. As of November 30, 2011, we had backlog of $28,650,000 compared to $22,540,000 as of November 30, 2010. The amount of outstanding customer
purchase orders at a particular time is influenced by numerous factors, including the product mix, timing of the receipt and processing of customer purchase orders, shipping schedules for the product
and specific customer shipping windows. Due to these factors, a comparison of outstanding customer purchase orders from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of
eventual actual shipments. 
8




 










Table of Contents 
 Competition  
        The apparel industry in which we operate is fragmented and highly competitive in the United States and on a worldwide basis. We compete
for consumers with a large number of apparel companies similar to ours. Our primary branded competitors include True Religion, Seven for All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity, Hudson and J Brand. We do
not hold a dominant competitive position, and our ability to sell our products is dependent upon the anticipated popularity of our designs and brand name, the price and quality of our products and our
ability to meet our customers' delivery schedules. We believe the range of fits and uniqueness of our designs differentiates us from our competitors and we believe that we are competitive with
companies producing goods of like quality and pricing. We believe that we can maintain our competitive position through new product development, creating product identity and brand awareness and
competitive pricing. Many of our competitors may possess greater financial, technical and other resources and the intense competition and the rapid changes in consumer preferences constitute
significant risk factors in our operations. As we expand globally, we will continue to encounter additional sources of competition. See "Risk Factors—We face intense competition in the
denim industry." 
 Import and Export Restrictions and Other Governmental Regulations  
        Transactions with our foreign manufacturers and suppliers are subject to the general risks of doing business abroad. Imports into the
United States are affected by, among other things, the cost of transportation and the imposition of import duties and restrictions. The countries in which our products might be manufactured may, from
time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duties or tariff levels, which could affect our operations and our ability to import
products at current or increased levels. We cannot predict the likelihood or frequency of any such events occurring. The enactment of any additional duties, quotas or restrictions could result in
increases in the cost of our products generally and might adversely affect our sales and profitability. 
        Our
import operations are subject to international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement and other bilateral textile agreements between the
United States and a number of foreign countries, including Morocco, Hong Kong, China, Taiwan and Korea. Some of these agreements impose quotas on the amount and type of goods that can be imported into
the United States from these countries. Such agreements also allow the United States to impose, at any time, restraints on the importation of categories of merchandise that, under the terms of the
agreements, are not subject to specified limits. Some of our imported products are also subject to United States customs duties and, in the ordinary course of business, we are from time to time
subject to claims by the United States Customs Service for duties and other charges. 
 Employees  
        As of February 28, 2012, we had 320 total employees, which included 187 full-time, 120 part- time and 13
temporary employees. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good. 
 Financial Information about Geographic Areas  
        See "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9—Segment Reporting and Operations by Geographical
Areas" for discussion of financial information about geographical areas. 
 Manufacturing and Distribution Relationships  
        Our denim products are manufactured by contractors located in Mexico, China, and Los Angeles, California. Our non-denim
products are primarily manufactured in the United States, Mexico, Peru, Portugal, and Asia, including Hong Kong, China, India and Korea. Our products are distributed out of Los Angeles or directly
from the factory to the customer. The following table represents the percentage 
9



 
Table of Contents
of
denim and non-denim products manufactured in the various countries or on the geographic continent as a percentage of all products manufactured during the fiscal year. 
















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 United States
 
 
20.7
%
 
22.4
%


 Mexico
 
 
58.5
%
 
46.4
%


 Europe
 
 
2.5
%
 
0.6
%


 Asia
 
 
15.8
%
 
20.0
%


 Morocco
 
 
2.4
%
 
10.6
%


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
100
%
 
100
%


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Available Information  
        Our website address is www.joesjeans.com. We make available on or through our website, without charge, our Annual Report, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Although we maintain a website at
www.joesjeans.com, we do not intend that the information available through our website be incorporated into this Annual Report. In addition, any materials filed with, or furnished to, the SEC may be
read and copied at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or viewed on line at www.sec.gov. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling
the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  
 
    ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS     
        The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the
forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual
outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report.
 Our success will depend on our success in increasing sales and opening and operating our retail stores.  
        Our ability to operate profitably depends on our ability to implement our strategic plan with success. During fiscal 2011, we
recognized growth for our Joe's® brand through increases in our men's domestic and retail sales and by diversifying our product offering to include products such as shirts, tees and pants.
We sell our Joe's® products internationally through individual distribution and agent agreements in various countries or through licensed stores. In addition, for countries such as Japan,
we had for part of fiscal 2011 specific distribution and licensing agreements to distribute, develop and manufacture products specifically for the Japanese market. We believe that by working directly
with our distributors and agents abroad, we can exercise more control and guidance over sales. 
        Since
we have primarily been a wholesaler, opening and operating retail stores requires us to develop retailing skills and capabilities and increase our expenditures. We are required to
enter into leases, increase our rental expenses and make capital expenditures for these stores. These commitments may be costly to terminate, and these investments may be difficult to recapture if we
decide to close a store or change our strategy. We must also offer a broad product assortment, appropriately manage retail inventory levels, install and operate effective retail systems, execute
effective pricing strategies and integrate our stores into our overall business mix. Finally, we need to hire and train additional qualified employees and incur additional costs to operate these
stores, which increase our operating expenses. If we do not manage these items properly, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in
the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we 
10



 
Table of Contents
recorded
a retail store impairment charge of $1,144,000 related to the property and equipment at two of our full price retail stores. Based on the operating performance of these stores, we believed
that we could not recover the carrying value of the property and equipment at these stores. Due to this impairment, our SG&A expenses increased in third quarter of fiscal 2011. 
        While
we believe that we are putting in place the mechanisms necessary to implement successfully these strategies, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our level of
expectations. Further, there can be no assurance that these initiatives will result in profitability for us in the short term or in the future. 
 Leasing real estate exposes us to possible liabilities and losses which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  
        We enter into leases in connection with our retail stores. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks associated with leasing real
estate. Store leases generally require us to pay a fixed minimum rent and a variable amount based on a percentage of annual sales at that location. We generally cannot terminate our leases and have
restrictions in connection with assigning or subletting our leases. If an existing or future store is not profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform certain obligations
under the applicable lease, including paying rent for the balance of the applicable lease term. As each of our leases expire, if we do not have a renewal option, we may be unable to renegotiate a
renewal on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable locations. In addition, we may not be able to close an unprofitable store due to an existing
operating covenant, which may cause us to operate the location at a loss and prevent us from finding a more desirable location. 
 We are currently not compliant with the Nasdaq Capital Market's continued listing requirements. If we do not regain compliance with the Nasdaq Capital Market's continued
listing requirements we may be delisted, which may decrease our stock price and make it harder for our stockholders to trade our stock and would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and
harm our business.  
        On June 8, 2011, we received a letter, the Notification Letter, from Nasdaq notifying us that we no longer meet the Nasdaq's
requirements for continued listing under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), or the Bid Price Rule, because the minimum bid price of our common stock did not equal or exceed $1.00 at least once
over a period of 30 consecutive trading days prior to the date of the Notification Letter. Accordingly to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were afforded 180 calendar days, or until
December 5, 2011, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule. In connection with the Notification Letter, on November 28, 2011, we submitted a letter to Nasdaq
requesting an additional 180 calendar day period in which to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule. The Company received a letter, the Second Notification Letter, from Nasdaq on December 6,
2011 notifying us that we are eligible for an additional 180 calendar day period in which to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule and that we have until June 4, 2012 to demonstrate
compliance by maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive trading days. This Second Notification Letter had no immediate effect on the listing of our
common stock. We intend to monitor the bid price of our common stock and consider available options, including an intent to cure our deficiency during the second compliance period by effecting a
reverse stock split, if necessary. However, if we do not regain compliance by June 4, 2012, Nasdaq will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be subject to delisting
from the Nasdaq Capital Market. 
        While
we believe we will be able to comply with the Nasdaq requirements in the applicable time periods, no assurances can be made that we will in fact be able to comply and that our
common stock will remain listed on Nasdaq. If we are not able to comply with the Nasdaq requirements in the applicable time periods, our common stock will be delisted from Nasdaq and our common stock
would likely be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or on the OTC Pink Sheets. As a consequence of any such 
11



 
Table of Contents
delisting,
a stockholder would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the prices of our common stock. Also, a delisting of our common stock would adversely
affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations and harm our business. 
 We may implement a reverse stock split, which will reduce our trading volume and may result in a decrease in our market capitalization.  
        As discussed in the risk factor above, we may need to conduct a reverse stock split to the extent that we are not compliant with
Nasdaq's minimum bid price requirement by June 4, 2012. In this regard, we will seek stockholder approval of such reverse stock split by holding a special meeting of our stockholders in advance
of June 4, 2012, if necessary. If approved by stockholders, the reverse stock split would be implemented at any time until June 4, 2012 upon a determination by our Board of Directors
that the reverse stock split is in the best interests of the company and our stockholders. We have been notified by Nasdaq that if compliance cannot be demonstrated by June 4, 2012, the Nasdaq
staff will provide written notification that our securities will be delisted. In determining whether to proceed with the reverse split and proposing the ratio range of the split, the Board of
Directors will consider a number of factors, including additional funding requirements, the amount of our authorized but unissued common stock, market conditions, existing and expected trading prices
of our common stock and Nasdaq listing requirements. Although we believe it is likely that the per share market price of our common stock will increase after a reverse split, we cannot guarantee that
our common stock price will increase, and even if it does, we cannot guarantee that the price increase (i) will be proportionate to the reverse split ratio, (ii) will last in the
marketplace for any length of time, (iii) will be sufficient to meet the listing requirements of Nasdaq or (iv) will not result in a decrease of our market capitalization. 
 Our business may be negatively impacted as a result of the current uncertainty of the economy in the United States and abroad.  
        The general economy in the United States and abroad continues to be in the midst of extraordinary uncertainty. Our business depends on
the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our largest direct customers. Purchases of high-fashion
apparel and accessories tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, and disposable income
decline. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the apparel industries, including, among others: prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, energy
costs, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to
maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales.
As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the United States or global economy. 
        The
distress in the financial markets has also resulted in extreme volatility and declines in security prices and diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance
that our liquidity and our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not be affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. Continuing turmoil in the financial markets
could make it more difficult for us to access capital, sell assets, refinance our existing indebtedness, enter into agreements for new indebtedness or obtain funding through the issuance of our
securities. 
        In
addition, the reduced availability of credit is having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world, and the impact of this reduced availability on our suppliers and
other vendors cannot be predicted. The inability of suppliers and other vendors to access liquidity, or the insolvency of suppliers and other vendors, could lead to their failure to deliver our
merchandise or other services 
12



 
Table of Contents
that
we require. Worsening economic conditions could also impair our ability to collect amounts as they become due from our customers, or other third parties that do business with us. We also face the
increased risk of order reductions or cancellations when dealing with financially ailing customers or customers struggling with economic uncertainty. 
 We face risks associated with constantly changing fashion trends, including consumer's response to our Joe's® brand. If we are unable to adapt to changing
fashion trends, our business and financial condition could be adversely effected.  
        Our success depends on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to changing consumer demand and fashion trends in a timely manner.
Any failure on our part to anticipate, identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends could adversely affect the acceptance of our products and leave us with a
substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities in the marketplace. If that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to dispose of excess,
slow-moving inventory, which may negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. At the same time, a focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to time, in our
not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand and may cause us to lose sales. 
        We
attempt to minimize our risk associated with delivering items through early order commitments by retailers. We must generally place production orders with manufacturers before we have
received all of a season's orders and orders may be cancelled by retailers before shipment. Therefore, if we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to consumer preferences, we could experience
lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
 Our business and results of operations could be negatively impacted by a change in consumer demand for denim in the marketplace.  
        Denim, including premium denim, an industry term for denim jeans with a typical retail price of approximately $120 or more, has been
increasingly popular and growing in sales over the past few years as a consumer discretionary purchase both domestically and internationally. However, because consumer demands and fashion trends are
subject to cyclical variations as well as the fact that the general economy and future economic prospects can often affect consumer spending habits, a change in any one of the
following:


•consumer demand, 
•consumer purchases of discretionary items, 
•general economic conditions, or 
•fashion trends, 

which
may result in lower sales, excess inventories or lower profit margins for our Joe's® products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results operations and
financial condition. 
 We face intense competition in the denim industry. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively
impacted.  
        We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign fashion-oriented apparel producers, some of whom may be
significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and marketing resources than we have. We do not currently hold a dominant competitive position in any market. We compete with other
denim manufacturers such as True Religion, Seven for 
13



 
Table of Contents
All
Mankind, Citizens of Humanity, Hudson and J Brand and other larger competitors primarily on the basis of:


•anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely manner,  
•maintaining favorable brand recognition, 
•developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers,  
•appropriately pricing products, 
•providing strong and effective marketing support, 
•creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers, 
•ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies with manufacturers and retailers, and  
•obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our products at retail. 

        Furthermore,
some of our competitors are privately held corporations and may have resources available to them that we, as a public company, do not have. Therefore, it may be difficult
for us to effectively gauge consumer response to our products and how our products are competing with these and other competitors in the marketplace. We cannot be certain that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and future competitors, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
 A portion of our net sales and gross profit is derived from a small number of large customers.  
        Our 10 largest customers and customer groups accounted for approximately 62 percent of our net sales during fiscal 2011. We do
not enter into any type of long-term agreements or firm commitment orders with any of our customers. Instead, we enter into a number of individual purchase order commitments with our
customers. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other significant customer, including our limited number of private label customers, whether motivated by competitive
conditions, financial difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us, or to change their manner of doing business with us, could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to find an alternative customer for our products in a timely manner. 
 Our business could be negatively impacted by the financial health of our retail customers.  
        We sell our product primarily to retail and distribution companies around the world based on pre-qualified payment terms.
Financial difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that customer, in addition to the customer's decision to decrease the level of its orders, to cancel orders previously
placed in advance of shipment dates or to cease carrying our products. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's receivables. We are dependent primarily on lines of credit that
we establish from time to time with customers, and should a substantial number of customers become unable to pay to us their respective debts as they become due, we may be unable to collect some or
all of the monies owed by those customers. 
        In
recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation or other ownership changes that have resulted in one entity controlling several different stores. This consolidation
can result in fewer customers for our products or the closing of some stores or the number of "doors" which carry our products. As a result, the potential for consolidation or ownership changes,
closing of retail outlets and fewer customers could negatively impact sales of our products and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
14




 







 
Table of Contents 
 Our business could suffer as a result of a manufacturer's inability to produce our goods on time and to our specifications or if we need to replace manufacturers.  
        We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of
our products. We enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality specifications and other standard industry
provisions, but do not have long-term contracts with any manufacturer. The inability of a certain manufacturer to ship orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality
standards could cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in purchase
prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the seasonality of our business, and the apparel and fashion business in
particular, the dates on which customers need and require shipments of products from us are critical, as styles and consumer tastes change so rapidly in the apparel and fashion business, particularly
from one season to the next. Further, because quality is a leading factor when customers and retailers accept or reject goods, any decline in quality by our third-party manufacturers could be
detrimental not only to a particular order, but also to our future relationship with that particular customer. 
        We
compete with other companies for the production capacity of our manufacturers. Some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an
advantage in the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours must be replaced, we may have to expand
our third-party manufacturing capacity. We cannot assure you that this additional capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or similar to existing terms which we have
with our manufacturers, either from a production standpoint or a financial standpoint. 
 Increases in the price of raw materials or their reduced availability could increase our cost of goods and decrease our profitability.  
        The principal fabrics used in our business are cotton, blends, synthetics and wools. The prices we pay our suppliers for our products
are dependent in part on the market price for raw materials—primarily cotton—used to produce them. The price and availability of cotton may fluctuate substantially, depending
on a variety of factors, including demand, crop yields, weather, supply conditions, transportation costs, work stoppages, government regulation, economic climates and other unpredictable factors.
Increases in raw material costs, together with other factors, will make it difficult for us to sustain the level of cost of goods savings we have achieved in recent years and result in a decrease of
our profitability unless we are able to pass higher prices on to our customers. Moreover, any decrease in the availability of cotton could impair our ability to meet our production requirements in a
timely manner. 
 We are dependent on our relationships with our vendors.  
        We purchase our raw materials, including fabric, yarns, threads and trims, such as zippers, buttons and tags from a variety of vendors.
While we are not reliant exclusively on one or more particular vendor for the supply of the raw materials or component parts required to meet our manufacturing needs, we depend on our relationships
and these vendors to ensure our supply of these raw materials or component parts. Any problems or disputes with these vendors could result in us having to source these raw materials or component parts
from another vendor, which could delay production, and in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
15



 
Table of Contents
 Our licensees may not comply with our product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements, which may have an adverse effect on our brand equity,
reputation or our business.  
        We license our trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing and distribution of bags, belts, children's products and shoes.
We believe that licensing the Joe's® brand for certain product categories will broaden and enhance the products available under the brand name. While our agreements with our licensees
cover product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, our licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include
marketing products under our brand names that do not meet our quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet our standards. These activities could harm our
brand equity, our reputation and our business. 
 In order to effectively manage growth, we are dependent on our financing arrangements and our cash flow from operations.  
        Our primary sources of liquidity are: (i) cash from sales of our Joe's® products; and (ii) cash from sales of
our accounts receivables and advances against inventory. We are dependent on credit arrangements with suppliers and factoring and inventory based agreements for working capital needs. From time to
time, we have conducted equity financing through private placement transactions and obtained increases in our cash availability from CIT Commercial Services, Inc., a unit of CIT Group, or CIT.
During fiscal 2011, our primary methods to obtain the cash necessary for operating needs were through the sales of Joe's® products, sales of our accounts receivable pursuant to our
factoring agreements and obtaining advances under our inventory security agreements with CIT. CIT has from time to time experienced economic uncertainty regarding its continued ability to operate,
including filing a petition for bankruptcy in 2009. However, during this time period, CIT continued to fund us with no change to our arrangements with them. We cannot give you any assurance that
should CIT experience uncertainty or insufficient cash flows again that they will continue to be able to fund us in the future. 
        As
of November 30, 2011, our cash availability with CIT was approximately $1,134,000 under our agreements. This amount fluctuates on a daily basis based upon invoicing and
collection related activity by CIT on our behalf. CIT has the ability to terminate the agreements we have with them upon notice or require additional collateral to secure its advances. We do not have
any provisions in the agreements that protect us in the event of a default by CIT. If CIT elects to terminate the agreements, we could be forced to pay our liability with CIT and CIT may also elect to
take possession of the pledged collateral, which includes raw materials through finished goods and receivables. Although we have undertaken numerous measures to increase sales and cash flow, control
inventory costs and operate more efficiently so that we may be able to fund our operations for fiscal 2012, we may experience losses and negative cash flows. We cannot give you any assurance that we
will in fact continue to operate profitably in the future. We believe in the event our agreements with CIT are terminated, we will be able to find alternative sources for obtaining the case for our
operating needs, including, entering into factoring or inventory security agreements with another lender. 
 Most of our tangible assets are pledged under our agreements with CIT.  
        In addition to being dependent on our financing agreements with CIT, we have pledged to CIT as collateral most of our tangible assets,
which include raw materials such as fabric and trim, finished goods, and our receivables. In the event we default or CIT elects to terminate the agreements, we would be required to pay our liability
to CIT. If we were unable or unwilling to pay all or part of our liability, CIT could exercise its rights under the agreements to the pledged collateral and sell any or all of these tangible assets.
In the event CIT elects this remedy, our operations and our sales could be materially adversely impacted by the sale of or our inability to utilize these assets in our normal business operations. 
16



 
Table of Contents
 Our directors and management, including Mr. Dahan, beneficially own a large percentage of our common stock and may be able to exert significant influence and control
over us and may make decisions that do not always coincide with the interest of other stockholders.  
        As of February 28, 2012, our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately
25 percent of our common stock, including options exercisable and restricted common stock units vesting within 60 days. In particular, Joe Dahan, an executive officer and member of our
Board of Directors, beneficially owned approximately 18 percent of our total shares outstanding and is our largest stockholder. As a result, such persons are in a position to exert significant
control over us and have the ability to substantially influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or
sale of all or substantially all of our assets, an increase in the number of shares authorized for issuance under our stock option plans, and to control our management and affairs. Accordingly, such
concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain
control of our business, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to other stockholders. 
 Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain talented personnel and retain our key employees, including our chief executive officer and creative director.  
        Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain talented personnel. To date, we have not had any difficulty in
attracting or retaining personnel to fill open or new positions, however, in the future, we may need to expand our infrastructure to support any anticipated growth. We may need to provide incentives,
both short term and long term, to attract and retain personnel. Incentives can range from bonuses, grants of options or restricted stock to perquisites unique to the industry. All such incentives will
result in an increase in certain expenses. More particularly, growth and payment of incentives to personnel and expenditures to expand our infrastructure to support our growth will cause our selling,
general and administrative expenses to increase if we cannot maintain or decrease other expenses. An increase in our selling, general and administrative expenses may cause us to be less profitable.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or decrease other expenses, therefore, a decrease in profit may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of
operations. 
        Our
chief executive officer, Marc Crossman, has substantial experience and expertise in our business and has made significant contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss
of his services could adversely affect us. We are protected to a limited extent by a key man term life insurance policy that we maintain on our behalf for Mr. Crossman; however, there can be no
assurance that his departure would trigger protection under this policy. In May 2008, we entered into a written employment agreement with Mr. Crossman whereby he is employed by us as our
President and Chief Executive Officer. His employment term is two years with automatic renewal for additional two year periods if neither party elects not to renew the agreement upon 180 days
advanced notice. If Mr. Crossman should leave us, his absence would likely have a substantial impact on our ability to operate on a daily basis because we would be forced to find and hire
similarly experienced personnel to fill one or more of his positions and daily operations may suffer temporarily as a result of this immediate void. 
        Mr. Dahan's
departure could materially adversely affect our operations because his experience, design capabilities and name recognition in the apparel industry is important to our
business and we rely heavily on Mr. Dahan's capabilities to design, direct and produce product for the Joe's® brand. However, the loss of Mr. Dahan would not have any effect
on our ownership of the brand. While we believe that we would be able to find a suitable replacement to design, direct and produce product for the Joe's® brand, we do not know the effect a
new or different designer would have on the products 
17



 
Table of Contents
and
consumer's response to those new products. Therefore, loss of Mr. Dahan's services could have an impact on our ability to operate on a daily basis. 
 In the event we seek additional capital through equity or debt offerings, our existing stockholders may be diluted or we may be unable to find additional capital on terms
favorable to us and our stockholders.  
        In the event that we need additional working capital for our projected operations, we may seek capital through debt or equity offerings
which could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and/or rights to acquire additional shares of our capital stock. Those additional issuances of capital stock would result
in a reduction of the percentage of ownership interest held by our existing stockholders. Also, the addition of a substantial number of shares of our common stock into the market or the registration
of any other securities may significantly and negatively affect the prevailing market price for our common stock. Finally, we may not be able to find additional capital on terms favorable to us
through existing markets or investors due to market conditions, our historical performance or our stock price. 
 Our common stock price is volatile and may decrease.  
        The trading price and volume of our common stock has historically been subject to fluctuations in response to factors such as the
following, some of which are beyond our control:


•annual and quarterly variations in actual or anticipated operating results,  
•operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors,  
•changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and
investors, 
•changes in market valuations of other denim apparel companies, 
•announcements of new product lines by us or our competitors, announcements by us or our competitors of significant
contracts, acquisitions or dispositions of assets, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, 
•additions or departures of key personnel or members of our board of directors, and  
•general conditions in the apparel industry. 

        In
the 52 week period prior to the filing of this Annual Report, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $0.51 to $1.14. In addition, stock markets generally have
experienced price and volume trading volatility in recent years. This volatility has had an effect on the market prices of securities of many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating
performance of the specific companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 
 The seasonal nature of our business makes management more difficult, severely reduces cash flow and liquidity during parts of the year and could force us to curtail our
operations.  
        Our business is seasonal. The majority of our marketing and sales activities take place from late fall to early spring. Historically,
our greatest volume of shipments and sales occur from late spring through the summer, which coincides with our second and third fiscal quarters. This requires us to build-up inventories
during our first and second fiscal quarters when our cash flow is weakest. Historically speaking, our cash flow is strongest in the third and fourth fiscal quarters. Unfavorable economic conditions
affecting retailers during the fall and holiday seasons in any year could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for the year. We are likely to experience periods of negative cash
flow throughout each year, including, a drop-off in business commencing each December, 
18



 
Table of Contents
which
could force us to curtail operations if adequate liquidity is not available. We cannot assure you that the effects of such seasonality will diminish in the future. For fiscal 2011, we funded
inventory purchases through cash from operations and cash availability under our financing agreements with CIT. 
 If an independent manufacturer of ours fails to use acceptable labor practices, our business could suffer.  
        While we require our independent manufacturers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we have no control over
the ultimate actions of our independent manufacturers. Despite our lack of control, we have internal and vendor operating guidelines to promote ethical business practices and our staff periodically
visits and monitors the operations of our independent manufacturers. We also use the services of a third party independent labor consulting service to conduct on site audits as required by state labor
laws to help minimize our risk and exposure to unacceptable labor practice violations. The violation of labor or other laws by one of our independent manufacturers or the divergence of an independent
manufacturer's labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt or otherwise disrupt the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any
of these, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the laws governing garment manufacturers in the State of California impose
joint liability upon us and our independent manufacturers for the labor practices of those independent manufacturers. As a result, should one of our independent manufacturers be found in violation of
state labor laws, we could suffer financial or other unforeseen consequences. 
 Our trademark and other intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected and some of our products are targets of counterfeiting.  
        We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We may, however,
experience conflict with various third parties who acquire or claim ownership rights in certain trademarks as we expand our product offerings and expand the number of countries where we sell our
products. We cannot ensure that the actions we have taken to establish and protect these trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to
prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of their trademarks and proprietary rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of,
trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not
protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. 
        Our
Joe's® products are sometimes the target of counterfeiters. As a result, there are often products that are imitations or "knock-offs" of our
Joe's® products that can be found in the marketplace or consumers can find products that are confusingly similar to ours. We intend to continue to vigorously defend our trademarks and
products bearing our trademarks, however, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be adequate to prosecute and block all sales of infringing products from the marketplace. 
 Our ability to conduct business in international markets may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic risks.  
        Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to maintain the current level of operations in our existing
international markets is subject to risks associated with international operations. Some of these risks include:


•the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations,  
•unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and 

19








 










Table of Contents 


•new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets. 

        We
are also subject to general political and economic risks associated with conducting international business, including:


•political instability, 
•changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and 
•general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets. 

        We
cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar restrictions will be imposed by the United States, Mexico, the European Union, Canada, China, Japan, India, South Korea
or other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what effect any of these actions would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in
regulatory or geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to modify our current business practices.  
 
    ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS     
        Not applicable.  
 
    ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES     
        Our principal place of business is located in Commerce, Los Angeles County, California. The following table sets forth information with
respect to our principal place of business: 


















Location



 
Use 
 
Ownership
Status 
 
Approximate
Area in
Square Feet 
 
Lease Expiration 


 Commerce, California
 
Warehouse, design and administrative offices
 
Leased
 
 
89,230
 
December 31, 2013




        We
operate 22 retail store locations under non-cancelable operating lease agreements expiring on various dates through 2023 or five or ten years from the opening date of the
store. These facilities are all located in the United States. As of November 30, 2011, we had 22 stores open and operating and signed leases to open two additional stores. Our retail square
footage as of November 30, 2011 was approximately 46,582 square feet in the aggregate. Our retail stores range in size from 1,359 to 3,025 square feet. 
        We
believe that our existing facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and are adequate for our present level of operations.  
 
    ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS     
        (a)   We
are a party to lawsuits and other contingencies in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that we are a party to any material pending legal
proceedings or that it is probable that the outcome of any individual action would have an adverse effect in the aggregate on our financial condition. We do not believe that it is likely that an
adverse outcome of individually insignificant actions in the aggregate would be sufficient enough, in number or in magnitude, to have a material adverse effect in the aggregate on our financial
condition. 
        (b)   None.
 
 
    ITEM 4.    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE     
        Not applicable. 
20



 
Table of Contents
 
 
  PART II     
 
    ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES     
        (a)   Our
common stock is currently traded under the symbol "JOEZ" on The Nasdaq Capital Market maintained by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., or Nasdaq. The following
chart sets forth the high and low interday quotations for our common stock on the Nasdaq market for the periods indicated. This information reflects inter-dealer prices, without retail
mark-up, mark-down or commissions, and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. No representation is made by us that the following quotations necessarily reflect an
established public trading market in our common stock: 
















 
 
High 
 
Low 
 


 Fiscal 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First Quarter
 
$
1.67
 
$
1.07
 


 Second Quarter
 
$
1.14
 
$
0.83
 


 Third Quarter
 
$
0.95
 
$
0.62
 


 Fourth Quarter
 
$
0.70
 
$
0.51
 


 Fiscal 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 First Quarter
 
$
2.33
 
$
1.10
 


 Second Quarter
 
$
3.45
 
$
1.90
 


 Third Quarter
 
$
2.36
 
$
1.81
 


 Fourth Quarter
 
$
2.20
 
$
1.55
 




        As
of November 30, 2011, there were approximately 846 record holders of our common stock. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend and do not anticipate paying cash
dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In deciding whether to pay dividends on our common stock in the future, our board of directors will consider certain factors they may deem
relevant, including our earnings and financial condition and our capital expenditure requirements. 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  
        See "Item 12—Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners, Management and Related Stockholder Matter" for the
Equity Compensation Plan Information. 
        (b)   None.

        (c) 






















Period



 
(a)
Total Number
of Shares
(or Units)
Purchased 
 
(b)
Average Price
Paid per Share
(or Unit) 
 
(c)
Total Number of Shares
(or Units) Purchased
as Part of Publicly
Announced Plans or
Programs 
 
(d)
Maximum Number (or
Approximate Dollar Value)
of Shares (or Units) that
May Yet Be Purchased
Under the Plans or
Programs 
 


 9/01/11 - 9/30/11
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 10/01/11 - 10/31/11
 
 
57,399
 
$
0.59
 
 
0
(1)
 
0
(1)


 11/01/11 - 11/30/11
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 
 
0
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
 
57,399
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)On
October 8, 2011, we agreed to repurchase, at a price of $0.59, which was the closing price of our common stock on such date, 57,399 shares in the
aggregate of our common stock that were previously granted pursuant to a restricted stock agreements for payment of tax withholding 

21



 
Table of Contents


obligations
by Marc Crossman. We expect to continue to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the award agreements on certain vesting dates of the grants. 


 
    ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA     

        The table below (includes the notes hereto) sets forth a summary of selected consolidated financial data. The selected consolidated
financial data should be read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. 


























 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands, except per share data)
 


 
 
11/30/11 
 
11/30/10 
 
11/30/09 
 
11/29/08 
 
11/30/07 
 


 Net sales
 
$
95,420
 
$
98,176
 
$
80,116
 
$
69,174
 
$
62,767
 


 Cost of goods sold
 
 
52,056
 
 
51,963
 
 
40,331
 
 
36,543
 
 
36,137
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross profit
 
 
43,364
 
 
46,213
 
 
39,785
 
 
32,631
 
 
26,630
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
41,617
 
 
39,349
 
 
30,726
 
 
26,161
 
 
23,085
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1,168
 
 
843
 
 
536
 
 
350
 
 
359
 


 Retail stores impairment
 
 
1,144
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
43,929
 
 
40,192
 
 
31,262
 
 
26,511
 
 
23,444
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating (loss) income
 
 
(565
)
 
6,021
 
 
8,523
 
 
6,120
 
 
3,186
 


 Interest expense
 
 
484
 
 
464
 
 
388
 
 
633
 
 
828
 


 Other (expense) income, net
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(13
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income before taxes
 
 
(1,049
)
 
5,557
 
 
8,135
 
 
5,487
 
 
2,345
 


 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 
316
 
 
2,956
 
 
(16,385)
(1)
 
585
 
 
91
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(1,365
)
$
2,601
 
$
24,520
 
$
4,902
 
$
2,254
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) earnings per common share—Basic
 
$
(0.02
)
$
0.04
 
$
0.41
 
$
0.08
 
$
0.05
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) earnings per common share—Diluted
 
$
(0.02
)
$
0.04
 
$
0.40
 
$
0.08
 
$
0.05
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
64,001
 
 
62,362
 
 
60,053
 
 
59,420
 
 
43,840
 


 Diluted
 
 
64,001
 
 
64,505
 
 
61,121
 
 
59,671
 
 
45,000
 


 Balance sheet data:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
80,162
 
$
81,469
 
$
79,624
 
$
57,669
 
$
47,626
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
64,757
 
 
64,873
 
 
61,506
 
 
36,085
 
 
30,396
 








(1)As
discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, "Income Tax," we determined that it was more likely
than not that the deferred tax assets would be fully utilized. Accordingly, the valuation allowance of $20,291,000 was released and recorded as a credit to income tax benefit during fiscal 2009. 

22



 
Table of Contents
 
    ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS     
 Introduction  
        This discussion and analysis summarizes the significant factors affecting our results of operations and financial conditions during the
fiscal years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and supplemental information in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The discussion and analysis contains statements that may be considered forward-looking. These statements contain a
number of risks and uncertainties as discussed, under the heading "Forward-Looking Statements" of this Annual Report that could cause actual results to differ materially. Readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Our future results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed or
implied in these forward-looking statements. We do not undertake to publicly revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof or to reflect
the occurrence of unanticipated events. 
 Executive Overview  
        Our principal business activity is the design, development and worldwide marketing of our Joe's® products, which include
denim jeans, related casual wear and accessories. Since Joe's® was established in 2001, the brand is recognized in the premium denim industry, an industry term for denim jeans with price
points generally of $120 or more, for its quality, fit and fashion-forward designs. Because we focus on design, development and marketing, we rely on third parties to manufacture our apparel products.
We sell our products through our own retail stores, to numerous retailers, which include major department stores, specialty stores and distributors around the world. 
        The
focus of our operations has been on our Joe's® brand. Our transition plan, which began in 2006, included selling the assets or ceasing operations of our other branded and
private label apparel products and acquiring the Joe's® brand and marks through merger. 
        Beginning
in 2009, we began to re-examine our collection pieces and re-launched several categories with their own unique branding along with the
Joe's® logo or name. In the fall of fiscal 2009, we launched a line of unisex woven shirts in different fits and fabrications called The Shirt by Joe's, which was followed by items in
other distinct product categories and branded as such. In the Fall of 2011, we returned to branding our products cohesively under the name Joe's®. During fiscal 2011, we recognized growth
for our Joe's® brand through increases in our retail sales, our men's domestic sales and by diversifying our product offering to include other products such as tops, tees, and pants in
fabrications other than denim. 
        For
2012, we believe that our growth drivers will be dependent upon the performance of our retail stores, continued increases in sales from our international and men's sales, performance
of our licensee's under their respective agreements for bags, belts, children's products, shoes and enhancement of products available to our customer's branded with our Joe's name and logos. When we
commenced fiscal 2011, we operated 17 retail stores, four of which were full price stores and 13 of which were outlet stores. During fiscal 2011, we added five retail stores, four of which were outlet
stores and one of which was a full price retail store. We have plans to open additional outlet stores in fiscal 2012 and are looking for additional leases for further expansion. We believe that
through our retail stores, we are able to enhance our net sales and gross profit and sell overstock or slow moving items at higher profit margins. In addition, we selectively license the
Joe's® brand for other product categories. By licensing certain product categories, we do not incur significant capital investments or incremental operating expenses and at the same time,
we receive royalty payments on net sales, which contribute to our 
23



 
Table of Contents
overall
growth. We are also in the process of developing expanded product lines at lower price points to enhance our business. 
        Our
business is seasonal. The majority of the marketing and sales orders take place from late fall to early spring. The greatest volume of shipments and actual sales are generally made
from late spring through the summer, which coincides with our second and third fiscal quarters, and our cash flow is strongest in our third and fourth fiscal quarters. Due to the seasonality of our
business, as well as the evolution and changes in our business and product mix, often our quarterly or yearly results are not necessarily indicative of the results for the next quarter or year.
Furthermore, because of the growing number of full-price retail and outlet stores opened at different points in fiscal 2010 and 2011, we continue to assess the seasonality of our business
on our retail segment and its potential impact on our financial results. 
        We
operate in two primary business segments: Wholesale and Retail. Our Wholesale segment is comprised of sales to retailers, specialty stores and distributors, revenue from licensing
agreements and
includes expenses from marketing, sales, distribution and customer service departments. Also, some international sales are made directly to wholesale customers who operate retail stores. Our Retail
segment is comprised of sales to consumers through full-price retail stores, outlet stores and through the www.joesjeans.com/shop internet
site. Our Corporate and other is comprised of expenses from corporate operations, which include the executive, finance, legal, and human resources departments, design and production. 
 Comparison of Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2011 to Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2010  






















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
11/30/11 
 
11/30/10 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Net sales
 
$
95,420
 
$
98,176
 
$
(2,756
)
 
(3
)%


 Cost of goods sold
 
 
52,056
 
 
51,963
 
 
93
 
 
0
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross profit
 
 
43,364
 
 
46,213
 
 
(2,849
)
 
(6
)%


 Gross margin
 
 
45
%
 
47
%
 
(2
)%
 
(4
)%


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 

41,617
 
 

39,349
 
 

2,268
 
 

6
%


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1,168
 
 
843
 
 
325
 
 
39
%


 Retail stores impairment
 
 
1,144
 
 
—
 
 
1,144
 
 
N/A
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income from operations
 
 
(565
)
 
6,021
 
 
(6,586
)
 
(109
)%


 Interest expense
 
 

484
 
 

464
 
 

20
 
 

4
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income before taxes
 
 
(1,049
)
 
5,557
 
 
(6,606
)
 
(119
)%


 Income tax provision
 
 

316
 
 

2,956
 
 

(2,640
)
 

(89
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(1,365
)
$
2,601
 
$
(3,966
)
 
(152
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




24



 
Table of Contents
 Results of Operations  
        The following table sets forth certain statements of operations data by our reportable segments for the periods as indicated: 






















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
11/30/11 
 
11/30/10 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Net sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
76,901
 
$
85,141
 
$
(8,240
)
 
(10
)%


 Retail
 
 
18,519
 
 
13,035
 
 
5,484
 
 
42
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
95,420
 
$
98,176
 
$
(2,756
)
 
(3
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross Profit:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
31,097
 
$
38,324
 
$
(7,227
)
 
(19
)%


 Retail
 
 
12,267
 
 
7,889
 
 
4,378
 
 
55
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
43,364
 
$
46,213
 
$
(2,849
)
 
(6
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
18,000
 
$
23,887
 
$
(5,887
)
 
(25
)%


 Retail
 
 
(728
)
 
(42
)
 
(686
)
 
(1,633
)%


 Corporate and other
 
 
(17,837
)
 
(17,824
)
 
(13
)
 
(0
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(565
)
$
6,021
 
$
(6,586
)
 
(109
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Fiscal Year 2011 Overview  
 Net Sales  
        Our net sales decreased to $95,420,000 in fiscal 2011 from $98,176,000 in fiscal 2010, a three percent decrease. 
        More
specifically, our wholesale net sales decreased to $76,901,000 for fiscal 2011 from $85,141,000 for fiscal 2010, a 10 percent decrease. This decrease in our wholesale sales
is primarily attributed to a decrease in international and women's domestic sales, which declined collectively by $10,848,000 over the prior year period, or a 15 percent decrease. This decrease
was partially offset by a $2,893,000, or a 22 percent increase, in men's domestic sales. 
        Our
retail net sales increased to $18,519,000 for fiscal 2011 from $13,035,000 for fiscal 2010, a 42 percent increase. The primary reason for this increase was the opening of five
additional retail stores since the end of fiscal 2010 that contributed to overall sales increase for this segment in fiscal 2011. 
 Gross Profit  
        Our gross profit decreased to $43,364,000 for fiscal 2011 from $46,213,000 for fiscal 2010, a six percent decrease. Our overall gross
margin decreased to 45 percent for fiscal 2011 from 47 percent for fiscal 2010. 
        Our
wholesale gross profit decreased to $31,097,000 for fiscal 2011 from $38,324,000 for fiscal 2010, a 19 percent decrease. Our wholesale gross profit and gross margin for the
fiscal 2011 were negatively impacted by a decrease of $8,240,000 in wholesale sales and an inventory write down of $1,620,000 to the lower of cost or market for leggings and collection inventory in
the third quarter of fiscal 2011. This inventory write down accounted for 57 percent of the six percent decline in fiscal 2011's total gross profit and resulted in a gross margin reduction of
two percentage points. Our 
25



 
Table of Contents
wholesale
gross margins for fiscal 2011 were further negatively impacted by our product placement mix with our wholesale customers. 
        Our
retail gross profit increased to $12,267,000 for fiscal 2011 from $7,889,000 for fiscal 2010, a 55 percent increase. We increased the number of store locations in fiscal 2011
compared to fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2011, we operated 17 outlet stores and five full price retail stores. In fiscal 2010, we operated 13 outlet stores and four full price retail stores. Our retail
gross margin percentage increased to 66 percent in fiscal 2011 from 61 percent in fiscal 2010 primarily due to the inventory mix in stores and a reduced level of promotional activity at
our outlet stores. 
 Selling, General and Administrative Expense, including Depreciation and Amortization and Retail Store Impairment  
        Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expenses increased to $43,929,000 for fiscal 2011 from $40,192,000 for fiscal 2010, a
nine percent increase. Our SG&A includes expenses related to employee and employee related benefits, sales commissions, payments of the contingent consideration, advertising, sample production,
facilities and distribution related costs, professional fees, stock-based compensation, factor and bank fees and also includes depreciation and amortization and retail store impairment. 
        Our
wholesale SG&A expense decreased to $13,097,000 for fiscal 2011 from $14,437,000 for fiscal 2010, a nine percent decrease. Our wholesale SG&A expense was lower in fiscal 2011 mostly
due to lower sample and distribution expenses. Cost savings in these areas resulted from close management of our sample expenses and consolidating our distribution function to our corporate facility
in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. 
        Our
retail SG&A expense increased to $12,995,000 for fiscal 2011 from $7,931,000 for fiscal 2010, a 64 percent increase. Our retail SG&A expense increased due to the addition of
costs associated with opening and operating five new retail stores since the end of fiscal 2010, which included additional store payroll, store rents and depreciation expense. Also impacting our SG&A
expense was additional depreciation for leasehold improvements at these additional retail stores and an impairment charge of $1,144,000 related to the property and equipment at two of our full price
retail stores. Based on the operating performance of these stores, we believed that we could not recover the net carrying value of the property and equipment at these stores. Due to this impairment
and increased store openings, our retail SG&A expenses increased correspondingly for fiscal 2011. 
        Our
corporate and other SG&A expense increased slightly to $17,837,000 for fiscal 2011 from $17,824,000 for fiscal 2010, a less than one percent increase. Our corporate and other SG&A
expense includes general overhead associated with running our operations. Our SG&A expense decreased in certain areas, such as employee and employee related benefits and facilities and distribution,
due to reduced headcount and consolidation of our corporate headquarters in the first quarter of fiscal 2011. Offsetting these decreases were approximately $1,657,000 in expenses for print and other
advertising in order to support and promote our brand and increased professional fees. 
 Operating (Loss) Income  
        We had an operating loss of $565,000 for fiscal 2011 compared to operating income of $6,021,000 for fiscal 2010, a 109 percent
decrease. We experienced an operating loss compared to operating income mostly due to lower net sales which resulted in a loss of gross profit of $1,251,000, an inventory write down of $1,620,000 to
the lower of cost or market for leggings and collection inventory that negatively impacted our gross profit, an increase in SG&A expenses of $2,268,000 due to additional store openings and increased
advertising expenses and an impairment charge of $1,144,000 related to the property and equipment at two of our full price retail stores. 
26




 







 
Table of Contents 
        We had wholesale operating income of $18,000,000 for fiscal 2011 compared to operating income of $23,887,000 for fiscal 2010, a 25 percent decrease. Our
retail operating loss was $728,000 compared to a loss of $42,000 for fiscal 2010. Our corporate and other operating expense increased by $13,000 due to a slight increase in general overhead costs. 
 Interest Expense  
        Our interest expense increased to $484,000 for fiscal 2011 from $464,000 for fiscal 2010, a four percent increase. Our interest expense
is primarily associated with interest expense from our factoring facility and inventory lines of credit used to help support our working capital needs. We maintained comparable average loan balances
under our factoring facility in both comparative periods. 
 Income Taxes  
        Our effective tax rate was negative 30 percent for fiscal 2011 compared to 53 percent for fiscal 2010. For fiscal 2011,
we had losses associated with our operations that would ordinarily result in a tax benefit. Due to unfavorable permanent book/tax difference associated with the costs of acquiring the trademark (in
connection with the merger in 2007), we had income for tax purposes which resulted in a tax expense which caused the negative effective tax rate. 
 Net (Loss) Income  
        Our net loss was $1,365,000 in fiscal 2011 compared to net income $2,601,000 for fiscal 2010. This shift from net income to a net loss
was primarily due to a loss in gross profit of $2,849,000 from lower net sales and gross margins, which included an inventory write down of $1,620,000 to the lower of cost or market for leggings and
collection inventory, an increase in SG&A expenses of $2,268,000 due to additional store openings and increased advertising expenses and an impairment charge of $1,144,000 related to the property and
equipment at two of our full price retail stores. However, these increases were offset by lower income tax expense. 
 Comparison of Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2010 to Fiscal Year Ended November 30, 2009  






















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
11/30/10 
 
11/30/09 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Net sales
 
$
98,176
 
$
80,116
 
$
18,060
 
 
23
%


 Cost of goods sold
 
 
51,963
 
 
40,331
 
 
11,632
 
 
29
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross profit
 
 
46,213
 
 
39,785
 
 
6,428
 
 
16
%


 Gross margin
 
 
47
%
 
50
%
 
(3
)%
 
(6
)%


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 

39,349
 
 

30,726
 
 

8,623
 
 

28
%


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
843
 
 
536
 
 
307
 
 
57
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income from operations
 
 
6,021
 
 
8,523
 
 
(2,502
)
 
(29
)%


 Interest expense
 
 

464
 
 

388
 
 

76
 
 

20
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Income before taxes
 
 
5,557
 
 
8,135
 
 
(2,578
)
 
(32
)%


 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 

2,956
 
 

(16,385
)
 

19,341
 
 

(118
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
2,601
 
$
24,520
 
$
(21,919
)
 
(89
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




27



 
Table of Contents
 Results of Operations  
        The following table sets forth certain statements of operations data by our reportable segments for the periods as indicated: 






















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
11/30/10 
 
11/30/09 
 
$ Change 
 
% Change 
 


 Net sales
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
85,141
 
$
75,238
 
$
9,903
 
 
13
%


 Retail
 
 
13,035
 
 
4,878
 
 
8,157
 
 
167
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
98,176
 
$
80,116
 
$
18,060
 
 
23
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross Profit:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
38,324
 
$
36,605
 
$
1,719
 
 
5
%


 Retail
 
 
7,889
 
 
3,180
 
 
4,709
 
 
148
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
46,213
 
$
39,785
 
$
6,428
 
 
16
%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
23,887
 
$
24,748
 
$
(861
)
 
(3
)%


 Retail
 
 
(42
)
 
(668
)
 
626
 
 
94
%


 Corporate and other
 
 
(17,824
)
 
(15,557
)
 
(2,267
)
 
(15
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
6,021
 
$
8,523
 
$
(2,502
)
 
(29
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Fiscal Year 2010 Overview  
 Net Sales  
        Our net sales increased to $98,176,000 in fiscal 2010 from $80,116,000 in fiscal 2009, a 23 percent increase. More specifically,
our wholesale net sales increased to $85,141,000 for fiscal 2010 from $75,238,000 for fiscal 2009, a 13 percent increase. This increase in our wholesale sales can be attributed to the addition
of new product categories such as unisex woven shirts, tees and non-denim pants for men and women, an increase in our overall men's sales and an increase in international sales. 
        Our
retail net sales increased to $13,035,000 for fiscal 2010 from $4,878,000 for fiscal 2009, a 167 percent increase. The primary reason for this increase was the opening of
eleven additional retail stores since the end of fiscal 2009 that contributed to overall sales for this segment. 
 Gross Profit  
        Our gross profit increased to $46,213,000 for fiscal 2010 from $39,785,000 for fiscal 2009, a 16 percent increase. Our overall
gross margin decreased to 47 percent for fiscal 2010 from 50 percent for fiscal 2009. 
        Our
wholesale gross profit increased to $38,324,000 for fiscal 2010 from $36,605,000 for fiscal 2009, a five percent increase. Our wholesale gross profit increase was primarily due to
our increase in net sales. However, our wholesale gross margin percentage decreased to 45 percent in fiscal 2010 from 49 percent in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the addition of a greater
percentage of sales from non-denim products, which carry lower gross margins, and our product placement mix with our wholesale customers in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009. We continue
to evaluate our sourcing options for the production of our new product lines. 
        Our
retail gross profit increased to $7,889,000 for fiscal 2010 from $3,180,000 for fiscal 2009, a 148 percent increase. Our retail gross margin percentage decreased to
61 percent in fiscal 2010 from 
28



 
Table of Contents
65 percent
in fiscal 2009 primarily due to the mix and sales attributable to our store base, which includes an increased number of outlet locations in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009. In
fiscal 2010, we operated 13 outlet stores and four full price retail stores. During fiscal 2009, we operated four outlet stores and two full price retail stores. 
 Selling, General and Administrative Expense, including Depreciation and Amortization  
        Selling, general and administrative, or SG&A, expenses increased to $40,192,000 for fiscal 2010 from $31,262,000 for fiscal 2009, a
29 percent increase. Our SG&A include expenses related to employee and employee related benefits, sales commissions, payments of the earn-out in connection with the 2007 merger with
JD Holdings, advertising, sample production, facilities and distribution related costs, professional fees, stock-based compensation, factor and bank fees and depreciation and amortization. 
        Our
wholesale SG&A expense increased to $14,437,000 for fiscal 2010 from $11,857,000 for fiscal 2009, a 22 percent increase. Our wholesale SG&A expense was impacted by the
addition of headcount to support the growth in our wholesale operations and sample and advertising expense associated with our new product lines, additional commissions associated with our sales
growth, additional professional fees associated with growth domestically and internationally and an increase in fees associated with a greater amount of invoices factored under our factoring line of
credit. 
        Our
retail SG&A expense increased to $7,931,000 for fiscal 2010 from $3,848,000 for fiscal 2009, a 106 percent increase. Our retail SG&A expense increased due to the addition of
costs associated with opening and operating 11 new retail stores since the end of fiscal 2009 which include additional store payroll and store rents. Also impacting our SG&A expense is additional
depreciation for leasehold improvements at our 11 additional retail stores that we opened in fiscal 2010 that we did not have in fiscal 2009. 
        Our
corporate and other SG&A expense increased to $17,824,000 for fiscal 2010 from $15,557,000 for fiscal 2009, a 15 percent increase. Our corporate and other SG&A expense
includes general overhead associated with running our operations and increased as a result of our overall growth in our business. Our SG&A expense increased as a result of increased costs associated
with additional headcount, employee and employee related benefits, increased facilities and distribution costs due to the move of our corporate headquarters in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and
increased stock based compensation expense due to increases in our stock price number of shares granted due to our growth in employee headcount eligible for grants. 
 Operating Income  
        Our wholesale operating income decreased by $861,000 to $23,887,000 for fiscal 2010 from $24,748,000 for fiscal 2009, a three percent
decrease. Our retail operating loss decreased by $626,000 to $42,000 for fiscal 2010 from an operating loss of $668,000 fiscal 2009. Our corporate and other operating expense increased by $2,267,000
due to an increase in general overhead costs and resulted in a net decline in our operating income to $6,021,000 for fiscal 2010 from $8,523,000 for fiscal 2009. 
 Interest Expense  
        Our interest expense increased to $464,000 for fiscal 2010 from $388,000 for fiscal 2009, a 20 percent increase. Our interest
expense is primarily associated with interest expense from our factoring facility and inventory lines of credit used to help support our working capital needs. The increase in interest expense is
primarily due to a higher average loan balance under our factoring facility as a result of our increase in net sales. 
29



 
Table of Contents
 Income Taxes  
        Our effective tax rate was 53 percent for fiscal 2010 compared to a negative 201 percent in fiscal 2009. In 2009, our
valuation allowance of $20,291,000 that was recorded against deferred tax assets was fully released and this resulted in a net tax benefit of $16,385,000. For fiscal 2010, no valuation allowance is
necessary as we believe our deferred tax assets will be fully realized. Further, the effective tax rate differs from the statutory corporate tax rate in part due to permanent book/tax differences
related to the costs of acquiring a trademark and due to state taxes for various jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation. These factors were the primary drivers resulting in a higher effective
tax rate for fiscal 2010. Overall, for fiscal 2010, our income tax expense was $2,956,000 compared to an income tax benefit of $16,385,000 in fiscal 2009, or a 118 percent decrease. 
 Net Income  
        We generated net income of $2,601,000 in fiscal 2010 compared to $24,520,000 in fiscal 2009. The change in our net income in fiscal
2010 is largely the result of the release of our valuation allowance of $20,291,000 as of November 30, 2008 that was recorded as a credit to income tax benefit during fiscal 2009 and resulted
in a net tax benefit of $16,385,000. 
 Liquidity and Capital Resources  
        Our primary sources of liquidity are: (i) cash from sales of our products; and (ii) sales from accounts receivable
factoring facilities and advances against inventory. For the year ended November 30, 2011, we generated $10,606,000 of cash flow from operations and used $2,055,000 in investing activities for
purchases of property and equipment mostly in connection with the opening and operation of our new and existing retail stores. We used $2,271,000 in financing activities. This was comprised of
$1,707,000 in repayments in factored borrowings and payments of (i) $530,000 for taxes on restricted stock units, and (ii) $34,000 to purchase 57,400 treasury shares. Our cash balance
increased to $12,690,000 as of November 30, 2011. 
        Historically,
we have been dependent on credit arrangements with suppliers and factoring and inventory based agreements for working capital needs. Our primary methods to obtain the cash
necessary for operating needs are through the sales of Joe's® products, sales of our accounts receivable pursuant to our factoring agreements, obtaining advances under our inventory
security agreements with CIT and utilizing existing cash balances. The accounts receivable are sold for up to 85 percent of the face amount on either a recourse or non-recourse
basis depending on the creditworthiness of the customer. In addition, the inventory agreement allows us to obtain advances for up to 50 percent of the value of certain eligible inventory. CIT
currently permits us to sell our accounts receivable at the maximum level of 85 percent and allows advances of up to $6,000,000 for eligible inventory. CIT has the ability, in its discretion at
any time or from time to time, to adjust or revise any limits on the amount of loans or advances made to us pursuant to these agreements and to impose surcharges on our rates for certain of our
customers. As further assurance to CIT, cross guarantees were executed by and among us and all of our subsidiaries to guarantee each entity's obligations. As of November 30, 2011, our cash
availability with CIT was approximately $1,134,000. This amount fluctuates on a daily basis based upon invoicing and collection related activity by CIT on our behalf. In connection with both of the
agreements with CIT, most of our tangible assets are pledged to CIT, including all inventory, merchandise, and/or goods, including raw materials through finished goods and receivables. Our trademarks
are not encumbered. 
30




 










Table of Contents 
        In May 2010, the parties amended the accounts receivable agreement to provide for a change in the factoring fees, an extension of the agreement and additional
termination rights. The accounts receivable agreement may be terminated by CIT upon 60 days' written notice or immediately upon the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the
agreement. The accounts receivable agreement may be terminated by us upon 60 days' written notice prior to June 30, 2012, or earlier provided that the minimum factoring fees have been
paid for the respective period or CIT fails to fund us for five consecutive days. The inventory agreement may be terminated once all obligations are paid under both agreements or if an event of
default occurs as defined in the agreement. 
        From
June 1 to June 30, 2010, we paid to CIT a factoring rate of 0.6 percent to factor accounts which CIT bore the credit risk, subject to discretionary surcharges,
and 0.4 percent for accounts which we bore the credit risk. The interest rate associated with borrowings under the inventory lines and factoring facility is 0.25 percent plus the Chase
prime rate. Beginning July 1, 2010, the factoring rate changed to 0.55 percent for accounts which CIT bears the credit risk, subject to discretionary surcharges, up to $40,000,000 of
invoices factored, 0.50 percent over $40,000,000 of invoices factored and 0.35 percent for accounts which we bear the credit risk. The interest rate associated with the agreements is
0.25 percent plus the Chase prime rate. 
        We
have also established a letter of credit facility with CIT to allow us to open letters of credit for a fee of 0.25 percent of the letter of credit face value with international
and domestic suppliers, subject to cash availability on our inventory line of credit. 
        As
of November 30, 2011, we had a net loan balance of $10,857,000 for factored receivables, a loan balance of $4,910,000 for inventory advances and four letters of credit
outstanding in the aggregate amount of $650,000. 
        For
fiscal 2012, our primary capital needs are for (i) operating expenses; (ii) working capital necessary to fund inventory purchases; (iii) capital expenditures for
potential additional retail store openings; (iv) financing extensions of trade credit to our customers; and (v) payment for the contingent consideration pursuant to the merger agreement
with JD Holdings. We anticipate funding our operations through working capital generated by the following: (i) cash flow from sales of our products; (ii) managing our operating expenses
and inventory levels; (iii) maximizing trade payables with our domestic and international suppliers; (iv) increasing collection efforts on existing accounts receivables; and
(v) utilizing our receivable and inventory-based agreements with CIT. 
        Based
on our cash on hand, cash flow from operations and the expected cash availability under our agreements with CIT, we believe that we have the working capital resources necessary to
meet our projected operational needs for fiscal 2012. However, if we require more capital for growth or experience operating losses, we believe that it will be necessary to obtain additional working
capital through credit arrangements or debt or equity financings. We believe that any additional capital, to the extent needed, may be obtained from additional sales of equity securities or other
loans or credit arrangements. There can be no assurance that this or other financings will be available if needed. Our inability to fulfill any interim working capital requirements would force us to
constrict our operations. 
        We
believe that the rate of inflation over the past few years has not had a significant adverse impact on our net sales or income from continuing operations. 
31



 
Table of Contents
 Commitments and Contractual Obligations  
        The following table sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments for our continuing operations as of
November 30, 2011: 































 
 
Payments due by period
(in thousands) 
 


 
 
Total 
 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2014 
 
2015 
 
2016 
 
Thereafter 
 


 Operating lease obligations
 
$
43,494
 
$
4,707
 
$
5,008
 
$
4,825
 
$
4,936
 
$
4,939
 
$
19,079
 


 Purchase obligations
 
 
3,019
 
 
3,019
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Letters of credit
 
 
650
 
 
650
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
47,163
 
$
8,376
 
$
5,008
 
$
4,825
 
$
4,936
 
$
4,939
 
$
19,079
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We
also have a contractual obligation to pay a contingent payment to Mr. Dahan in the event the gross profit of our Joe's® brand sales exceed $11,251,000 in a fiscal
year. See "Management's Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies—Additional Merger Consideration (Contingent Consideration)" for a further discussion of this contingent obligation. 
 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements  
        We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements. 
 Management's Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies  
        We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are important to an understanding of our financial statements because they
require management to exercise judgment and estimate the effects of uncertain matters in the preparation and reporting of financial results. Accordingly, we caution that these policies and the
judgments and estimates they involve are subject to revision and adjustment in the future. While they involve less judgment, management believes that the other accounting policies discussed in "Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" included in this Annual Report are also important to an understanding of our
financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 
 Revenue Recognition  
        Wholesale revenues are recorded on the accrual basis of accounting when title transfers to the customer, which is typically at the
shipping point. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs, including co-op advertising, other advertising programs or allowances, based upon a percentage of sales. We
also allow for returns based upon pre-approval or in the case of damaged goods. Such returns are estimated based on historical experience and an allowance is provided at the time of sale. 
        Retail
store revenue is recognized net of estimated returns at the time of sale to consumers. E-commerce sales of products ordered through our retail internet site known as
www.joesjeans.com are recognized upon estimated delivery and receipt of the shipment by the customers. E-commerce revenue is also reduced by an estimate of returns. Retail store revenue
and E-commerce revenue exclude sales taxes. Revenue from licensing arrangements are recognized when earned in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreements, generally based upon
the higher of (a) contractually guaranteed minimum royalty levels; and (b) estimates of sales and royalty data received from our licensees. Payments received in consideration of the
grant of a license or advanced royalty payments are recognized ratably as revenue over the term of the license agreement. The revenue recognized ratably over the term of the license agreement will not
exceed royalty payments received. The unrecognized 
32



 
Table of Contents
portion
of the upfront payments are included in deferred royalties and accrued expenses depending on the long or short term nature of the payments to be recognized. As of November 30, 2011, we
have recognized all of the advanced payments under our licensing agreements as income. 
 Accounts Receivable, Due To Factor and Allowance for Customer Credits and Doubtful Allowances  
        We evaluate our ability to collect on accounts receivable and charge-backs (disputes from the customer) based upon a combination of
factors. Whether a receivable is past due is based on how recently payments have been received and in certain circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer's inability to meet its financial
obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial
downgrading of credit sources). A specific reserve for bad debts is taken against amounts due to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount reasonably expected to be collected. Amounts are
charged off against the reserve once it is established that amounts are not likely to be collected. We recognize reserves for charge-backs based on our historical collection experience. 
        The
balance in the allowance for customer credits and doubtful accounts as of November 30, 2011 and November 30, 2010 was $678,000 and $889,000, respectively, for
non-factored accounts receivables. 
 Inventory  
        We continually evaluate the composition of our inventories, assessing slow-turning, ongoing product as well as product from
prior seasons. Market value of distressed inventory is valued based on historical sales trends on our individual product lines, the impact of market trends and economic conditions, and the value of
current orders relating to the future sales of this type of inventory. Significant changes in market values could cause us to record additional inventory markdowns. 
 Valuation of Long-lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill  
        We assess the impairment of identifiable intangibles, long-lived assets and goodwill annually or whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review other than on an annual basis include the
following:


•A significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;  
•A significant change in the manner of the use of the acquired asset or the strategy for the overall business; or  
•A significant negative industry or economic trend. 

        When
we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the aforementioned factors, impairment is
measured based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management. These cash flows are calculated by netting future estimated sales against associated
merchandise costs and other related expenses such as payroll, occupancy and marketing. In the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded store impairment charges of $1,144,000 related to two of our
full price retail stores. Based on the operating performance of these stores, we believed that we could not recover the carrying value of property and equipment located at these stores. 
        In
fiscal 2007, we acquired through merger JD Holdings, which included all of the goodwill and intangible assets goodwill related to the Joe's®, Joe's Jeans™ and
JD® logo and marks. To date, we have not recognized any impairment related to the goodwill or intangible assets of our Joe's® brand. We have assigned an indefinite life to
these intangible assets and therefore, no amortization expenses 
33



 
Table of Contents
are
expected to be recognized. However, we test the assets for impairment annually in accordance with our critical accounting policies. 
        We
evaluate goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets at least annually using a two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting
unit and compare this value to its carrying value. If the fair value exceeds the carrying value, no further work is required and no impairment loss would be recognized. The second step is performed if
the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the assets. The implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets must be determined and compared to the carrying
value of the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets. 
        Our
annual impairment testing date is September 30 of each year. For fiscal 2011, we determined that there was no impairment of our goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets. 
 Additional Merger Consideration (Contingent Consideration)  
        In connection with the merger with JD Holdings, we agreed to pay to Mr. Dahan the following contingent consideration in the
applicable fiscal year for 120 months following October 25, 2007:


•No contingent consideration if the gross profit is less than $11,250,000 in the applicable fiscal year;  
•11.33% of the gross profit from $11,251,000 to $22,500,000; 
•3% of the gross profit from $22,501,000 to $31,500,000; 
•2% of the gross profit from $31,501,000 to $40,500,000; and 
•1% of the gross profit above $40,501,000. 

        The
additional merger consideration, or contingent consideration, is paid in advance on a monthly basis based upon estimates of gross profits after the assumption that the payments are
likely to be paid. At the end of each quarter, any overpayments are offset against future payments and any significant underpayments are made. 
        Under
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, accounting for consideration transferred to settle a contingency based on earnings or
other performance measures, certain criteria is used to determine whether contingent consideration based on earnings or other performance measures should be accounted for as (1) adjustment of
the purchase price of the acquired enterprise or (2) compensation for services, use of property or profit sharing. The
determination of how to account for the contingent consideration is a matter of judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances. The advanced contingent consideration payments are
accounted for as operating expense. 
 Income Taxes  
        As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, management is required to estimate income taxes in each of
the jurisdictions in which we operate. The process involves estimating actual current tax expense along with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for book and
tax purposes. These timing differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheet. Management records a valuation allowance to reduce its
deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Management has considered future taxable income and ongoing tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the
valuation allowance. Increases in the valuation allowance result in additional expense to be reflected within the tax provision in the consolidated statement of income. Reserves are also estimated for
ongoing audits regarding federal and state issues that are currently unresolved. We 
34



 
Table of Contents
routinely
monitor the potential impact of these situations. Based on management's assessment of these items during fiscal 2009, we determined that it was more likely than not that the deferred tax
assets would be fully utilized. Accordingly, the valuation allowance of $20,291,000 as of November 30, 2008 was released and recorded as a credit to income tax benefit during fiscal 2009. 
 Contingencies  
        We record an estimated loss from a loss contingency when information available prior to issuance of our financial statements indicates
that it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred at the date of the financial statements and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Accounting for
contingencies such as legal and income tax matters requires management to use judgment. Many of these legal and tax contingencies can take years to be resolved. Generally, as the time period increases
over which the uncertainties are resolved, the likelihood of changes to the estimate of the ultimate outcome increases. Management believes that the accruals for these matters are adequate. Should
events or circumstances change, we could have to record additional accruals. 
 Stock Based Compensation  
        We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with the ASC standards. We elected the modified prospective method where prior
periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Under the fair value recognition provisions, stock based compensation is measured at grant date based upon the fair value of the award and expense is
recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options, which requires management to use
estimates and assumptions. The determination of the fair value of stock based option awards on the date of grant is based upon the exercise price as well as assumptions regarding subjective variables.
These variables include our expected life of the option, expected stock price volatility over the term of the award, determination of a risk free interest rate and an estimated dividend yield. We
estimate the expected life of the option by calculating the average term based upon historical experience. We estimate the expected stock price volatility by using implied volatility in market traded
stock over the same period as the vesting period. We base the risk-free interest rate on zero coupon yields implied from U.S. Treasury issues with remaining terms similar to the term on
the options. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and therefore use an expected dividend yield of zero. If factors change or we employ different assumptions for estimating fair
value of the stock option, our estimates may be different than future estimates or actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of those awards in the future.
At this time, we believe that our current method for accounting for stock based compensation is reasonable. Furthermore, an entity may elect either an accelerated recognition method or a
straight-line recognition method for awards subject to graded vesting based on a service condition, regardless of how the fair value of the award is measured. For all stock based
compensation awards that contain graded vesting based on service conditions, we have elected to apply a straight-line recognition method to account for these awards. However, guidance is
relatively new and the application of these principles over time may be subject to further interpretation or refinement. See "Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements—Note 2—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Stock-Based Compensation" and "Note 7—Stockholders' Equity—Stock
Incentive Plans" for additional discussion. 
 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  
        In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued revised guidance for the accounting of transfers of financial
assets. This guidance is intended to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness, and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial statements about a
transfer of financial assets; the effects of a transfer on its financial position, financial performance, and cash flows; and a transferor's continuing involvement, if any, in 
35



 
Table of Contents
transferred
financial assets. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 
        In
June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting of variable interest entities, which replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach with a qualitative
approach that focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most significantly impact the entity's economic performance. This
accounting guidance also requires an ongoing reassessment of whether an entity is the primary beneficiary and requires additional disclosures about an enterprise's involvement in variable interest
entities. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB issued guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The new standard requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net
income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new standard also requires
presentation of adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive
income are presented. The updated guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after
December 15, 2011. The adoption of this standard will only impact the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and will have no impact on the reported results. 
        In
May 2011, the FASB issued additional guidance on fair value measurements that clarifies the application of existing guidance and disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value
measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and
interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. We do not believe that adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our financial position and results
of operations. 
        In
December 2010, the FASB issued an update to modify Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an
entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill
impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with the existing
guidance, which requires that goodwill of a reporting unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair
value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. This accounting guidance will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and interim
periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is not permitted. We do not believe that adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. 
 
    ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK     
        We are exposed to certain market risks arising from transactions in the normal course of our business. Such risk is principally
associated with interest rates and changes in our credit standing. 
 Interest Rate Risk  
        Our obligations under our receivable and inventory agreements with CIT bear interest at floating rates (primarily JP Morgan Chase prime
rate). As a result, we are sensitive to changes in prevailing interest rates. We believe that a one percent increase or decrease in market interest rates that affect 
36



 
Table of Contents
our
financial instruments would have an immaterial impact on earnings or cash flow during the next fiscal year. 
 Foreign Currency Exchange Rates  
        Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency
other than an entity's functional currency and from foreign-denominated revenues translated into U.S. dollars. Changes in currency exchange rates may affect the relative prices at which we and our
foreign competitors sell products in the same market and collect receivables from such sales. We generally sell our products in U.S. dollars. However, we sell a limited amount of our products to
certain countries in Euros. We currently do not hedge our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as the amount of products sold would not be significantly impacted by rate
fluctuations. We cannot assure you that foreign currency
fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 
        We
also source most of our products outside of the U.S. However, we generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. The cost of these products may be affected by changes in the value of
the relevant currencies; however, our exposure to currency exchange rates is limited as a result of such companies outside of the U.S. accepting payment in U.S. dollars.  
 
    ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA     
        The information required by Item 8 is included in "Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules" of our consolidated
financial statements and notes thereto, and the consolidated financial statement schedule filed on this Annual Report.  
 
    ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES     
        There have been no changes in or disagreements with our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP. 
 
    ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES     
 Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
        Under the supervision, and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
we performed an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in 13a-15(e) and 15-d-15(e) under the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded, as of the end of the period covered by this report, that such disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
 Management's Annual Report On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined
in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f). Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we performed an
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
37



 
Table of Contents
Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of November 30, 2011. 
 Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
        There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this
report that have materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
 
    ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION     
        We did not fail to file any reports required to be filed on Form 8-K for the last fiscal quarter. 
 
 
  PART III     
 
    ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.     
        Information with respect to our directors and executive officers and their ages and positions as of February 28, 2012, is as
follows: 


















Name



 
Age 
 
Position 
 
Year
First
Elected
Director 
 


 Samuel J. (Sam) Furrow
 
 
70
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
 
1998
 


 Marc B. Crossman
 
 
40
 
Chief Executive Officer, President, and Director
 
 
1999
 


 Hamish Sandhu
 
 
49
 
Chief Financial Officer
 
 
N/A
 


 Joe Dahan
 
 
44
 
Creative Director and Director
 
 
2007
 


 Kelly Hoffman(2)(3)
 
 
53
 
Director
 
 
2004
 


 Thomas O'Riordan(1)(2)(3)
 
 
55
 
Director
 
 
2006
 


 Suhail R. Rizvi(1)(2)(3)
 
 
46
 
Director
 
 
2003
 


 Kent Savage(1)(3)
 
 
50
 
Director
 
 
2003
 








(1)Member
of the Audit Committee
(2)Member
of the Compensation and Stock Option Committee
(3)Member
of the Nominating and Governance Committee 

        Samuel J. (Sam) Furrow has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since October 1998. Mr. Furrow became a member of our Board
of Directors in April 1998 and served as our Chief Executive Officer from October 1998 until December 2000. Mr. Furrow also has been Chairman of the Board of Furrow Auction Company, a real
estate and equipment sales company with its headquarters in Knoxville, Tennessee, since April 1968; Chairman of Furrow—Justice Machinery Corporation, a six-branch industrial
and construction equipment dealer, since 1983; owner of Knoxville Motor Company—Mercedes Benz and Land Rover of Knoxville since December 1980 and July 1997, respectively. Mr. Furrow
received his undergraduate and J.D. degrees from the University of Tennessee. Sam Furrow is the father of our former Chief Executive Officer and Director, Samuel J. (Jay) Furrow, Jr. Due to
Mr. Furrow's extensive background as a business owner and operator, he brings substantial business experience and leadership to the Board of Directors, as well as offering advice and guidance
to our management team. 
38




 










Table of Contents 
        Marc B. Crossman has served as our Chief Executive Officer since January 2006, our President since September 2004
and a member of our Board of Directors since January 1999. From March 2003 until August 2007, Mr. Crossman served as our Chief Financial Officer. From January 1999 until March 2003,
Mr. Crossman served as a Vice President and Equity Analyst with J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. From September 1997 until January 1999, Mr. Crossman served as a Vice President and
Equity Analyst with CIBC Oppenheimer Corporation. Mr. Crossman received his B.S. degree in Mathematics from Vanderbilt University. With Mr. Crossman's background as an equity analyst and
his tenure with the Company and a member of the Board of Directors since 1999, Mr. Crossman provides strategic guidance and experience for all aspects of our operations, including our capital
and strategic matters. 
        Joe Dahan has served as the president and head designer for our Joe's Jeans subsidiary since its formation in February 2001, and as
Creative Director and a member of our Board of Directors since October 2007. Mr. Dahan is responsible for the design, development and marketing of Joe's products. From 1996 until 2001,
Mr. Dahan was the head designer for Azteca Production International, Inc., or Azteca, where he was responsible for the design, development and merchandising of product lines developed by
Azteca, a manufacturer of branded and private label denim products. From 1989 until 1996, Mr. Dahan was engaged in the design and development of apparel products for a company of which he was
an owner and operator. Mr. Dahan's significant experience in the apparel industry brings expertise related to the creative and strategic direction of our brand from season to season and our
operational matters. 
        Kelly Hoffman has served as a member of our Board of Directors since June 2004. Since December 2011, Mr. Hoffman has served as a
consultant to numerous companies in the oil and gas industry. From April 2008 until December 2011, Mr. Hoffman served as President of Victory Park Resources, a privately held exploration and
production company specializing in the acquisition of oil and gas producing properties in Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico. From 1998 until September 2009, Mr. Hoffman served as Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Varsity Media Group Inc., a technology and new media company. From 1991 until 1998, Mr. Hoffman owned AOCO Operating, a company that
raised capital for the acquisition of property in Texas, Louisiana and New Mexico. Mr. Hoffman began his oil and gas career at Amoco Production Company in Texas in various positions.
Mr. Hoffman attended Texas Tech University and majored in Business Administration. Mr. Hoffman's experience with starting up and running various companies has provided us with practical
knowledge and guidance on operations. 
        Thomas O'Riordan has served as a member of our Board of Directors since April 2006. Since August 2009 and from 1988 to 1995,
Mr. O'Riordan served as President of Tom O'Riordan & Associates, a sales and marketing company focused on the athletic footwear, apparel and sporting goods industries. From January 2010
until August 2011, Mr. O'Riordan served as Chief Operating Officer of CHEP USA, a global leader in pallet and container pooling services serving many of the world's largest companies. Prior to
that, from March 2007 to July 2009, Mr. O'Riordan served as Chief Executive Officer of American Sporting Goods Corporation, a privately held manufacturer and retailer of athletic footwear with
such brands as And1, Avia, Ryka, Yukon, Triple 5 Soul, NSS and Nevados. From 2004 to 2007, Mr. O'Riordan acted in an executive consulting and advisory capacity to the senior management team of
Fila Holding Company, a publicly traded manufacturer and retailer of branded footwear, apparel and accessories, and to other investment advisors and funds in the retail and consumer products sector.
From 1999 to 2004, Mr. O'Riordan served in various executive management capacities with Fila Holding Company, ultimately serving as Chief Executive Officer from 2003 to 2004. From 1995 until
1998, Mr. O'Riordan served as Director of Operations of Adidas America, a publicly traded manufacturer and retailer of branded athletic footwear, apparel and accessories. Mr. O'Riordan
began his career in sales for Brooks Shoe Company. Mr. O'Riordan received his B.S. degree in Marketing and Management from Rider University. Mr. O'Riordan's retail, apparel and footwear 
39



 
Table of Contents
industry
knowledge enables him to offer advice and guidance to our management as we grow our operations and open retail stores. 
        Suhail R. Rizvi has served as a member of our Board of Directors since April 2003. Since 2004, Mr. Rizvi has served as founder and
Chief Investment Officer of Rizvi--Traverse Management LLC and other related funds. Mr. Rizvi has over twenty years of private equity investing experience for his own account and as a
fiduciary for institutional investors through various entities or funds as founder, principal or manager. Mr. Rizvi also serves on the Board of Directors of Summit Entertainment LLC,
International Creative Management, Inc., Ziegler Capital Management and Key Air. Mr. Rizvi received his B.S. degree in Economics from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania
and sits on the Wharton Undergraduate Executive Board. Mr. Rizvi's experience as an executive and private equity
investor brings strong financial and strategic expertise to our Board and management to assist in achieving stockholder value. 
        Kent Savage has served as a member of our Board of Directors since July 2003. Since June 2006, Mr. Savage has served as Founder and
CEO of Famecast, Inc., a privately held interactive branded entertainment and contest management company. Beginning in June 2005, Mr. Savage consulted with Famecast, Inc. on all
aspects of the company's founding. From January 2004 until June 2005, Mr. Savage served as Chief Executive Officer for Digital Lifestyles Group, Inc. (DLFG.PK), a publicly traded
manufacturer and distributor of personal computers. Between February 2003 and January 2004, Mr. Savage served in various consulting capacities to start-up companies. From September
2002 until February 2003, Mr. Savage served as co-founder, Chief Sales and Marketing Officer for TippingPoint Technologies (NASDAQ: TPTI), which was acquired by 3Com. From February
1999 until August 2001, Mr. Savage served as co-founder, CEO and President for Netpliance, Inc. From April 1998 until February 1999, Mr. Savage served as General
Manager, Broadband for Cisco Systems Inc. Service Provider Line of Business. From July 1996 until April 1998, Mr. Savage served as Vice President, Sales and Marketing for
NetSpeed, Inc. Mr. Savage received his B.S. degree in Business from Oklahoma State University, attended University of Virginia's Executive Leadership Program, and received his M.B.A.
degree from Southern Methodist University. Mr. Savage's extensive experience as an officer and director at other public companies brings valuable experience and insight regarding our financial
and accounting matters to lead our Audit Committee. 
        Hamish Sandhu has served as our Chief Financial Officer since August 2007. From January 2006 until August 2007, Mr. Sandhu was
Chief Financial Officer of California Tan, Inc., a consumer products company manufacturing and marketing lotion and equipment to the indoor tanning industry. From September 2001 until December
2005, Mr. Sandhu was Chief Financial Officer of Ancra International LLC, a manufacturer of aircraft cargo systems and trucking restraint products. Mr. Sandhu began his career at
Deloitte & Touche LLP. Prior to that, Mr. Sandhu held various Chief Financial and Corporate Controller positions at other manufacturing and distribution based companies.
Mr. Sandhu has a B.A. degree in Economics and Accounting from Australian National University and holds a Certified Public Accountant's license. 
 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics  
        Our Board of Directors adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for all of our directors, officers and employees on May 22,
2003. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on our website at www.joesjeans.com or you may request a free copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics from our Chief Compliance
Officer at our corporate headquarters at the following address: 2340 S. Eastern Avenue, Commerce, California 90040 or by calling (323) 837-3700. You may also find a
copy of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics filed as Exhibit 14 originally filed with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 29, 2003
filed with the SEC on February 28, 2004. 
40



 
Table of Contents
        To
date, there have been no waivers under our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. We intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver granted
from a provision of such Code on a Form 8-K filed with the SEC within four business days following such amendment or waiver or on our website at www.joesjeans.com within four
business days following such amendment or waiver. The information contained or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report and should not be considered a part of
this or any other report that we file or furnish to the SEC. 
 Audit Committee  
        The Audit Committee, established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Exchange Act, is currently comprised of
Messrs. Savage, Rizvi, and O'Riordan. Mr. Savage serves as Chairman of the Audit Committee. Currently, all Audit Committee members are "independent" under NASDAQ listing standards and as
such term is defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC, and Mr. Rizvi has also been designated to be an "audit committee financial expert" as such term is defined in the rules and
regulations of the SEC. A copy of the Audit Committee charter can be found on our website www.joesjeans.com under our Investor Relations heading. 
 Nominating and Governance Committee  
        The Nominating and Governance Committee is currently comprised of Messrs. Rizvi, Hoffman, O'Riordan and Savage. Mr. Rizvi
serves as Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee. 
        The
Nominating and Governance Committee has a charter that details its duties and responsibilities, which was adopted by our Board of Directors on May 22, 2003. Currently, all
Nominating and Governance Committee members are "independent" under NASDAQ listing standards. There is no specific procedure outlined in the charter for the Nominating and Governance Committee to
consider nominees to our Board of Directors that are recommended by our common stockholders, but such nominees will be considered in accordance with the principal responsibilities of the Nominating
and Governance Committee, our bylaws and all applicable rules and regulations relating to such nominations by our common stockholders. The Nominating and Governance Committee has the
responsibility for developing criteria for the selection of new directors and nominees for vacancies. The members of the Nominating and Governance Committee have the discretion to choose candidates
that have the desired experience, mix of skills and other qualities to assure appropriate composition while taking into account the current members and our specific needs and the needs of our Board of
Directors. To date, no more specific criteria has been developed than that set forth in the charter. Furthermore, we have not had a common stockholder propose a nominee to our Board of Directors nor
have we paid any third party a fee to assist us in the process of identifying or evaluating candidates for our Board of Directors. A copy of the Nominating and Governance Committee charter can be
found on our website at www.joesjeans.com under our Investor Relations heading. 
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  
        Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act requires our directors, officers and persons who beneficially own more than ten percent of a
registered class of our equity securities, to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the SEC on a timely basis. Directors, officers and greater than ten percent beneficial owners are
required by the SEC's regulations to furnish us with copies of all Section 16(a) forms they file. 
        Based
solely on a review of copies of such forms furnished to us and certain of our internal records, or upon written representations from officers, directors and greater than ten
percent beneficial owners that no Form 5 was required, we believe that during the year ended November 30, 2011, all 
41



 
Table of Contents
Section 16(a)
filing requirements applicable to our directors, officers and greater than ten percent beneficial owners were satisfied on a timely basis.  
 
    ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.     
 Executive Officer Compensation  
        This discussion and analysis will focus on the following: (1) the objectives of the executive compensation policies and
practices, (2) the objectives that the compensation program is designed to reward; (3) each element of compensation, (4) the rationale for each element of compensation,
(5) the methodologies utilized by us in determining the amounts to pay for each element, and (6) how an element of compensation and our rationale for each element fit together within our
overall compensation objectives. This discussion relates to our Principal Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and our Creative Director, or collectively, our Named Executive Officers. 
 Compensation Philosophy  
        Our executive compensation program is designed to provide proper incentive to management to maximize performance in order to encourage
creation of stockholder value and achievement of strategic corporate objectives, attract and retain qualified, skilled and dedicated executives on a long-term basis, reward past
performance and provide incentives for future performance. 
        In
keeping with these objectives, our goal is to (1) align the interests of the executive officers with the interests of our stockholders, (2) ensure the
long-term commitment of our management team, and (3) ensure accountability for both our overall performance and the individual's performance and contribution. 
        In
setting the level of cash and equity compensation, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors considers various factors, including our overall performance and the
individual's performance during the year, the uniqueness and relative performance of the executive's skill set, the expected future contribution to us and competitive conditions. In addition, the
Compensation Committee considered our stockholder 'say on pay' vote at our annual meeting in October 2011 and continued to apply the same principles in determining the amounts and types of executive
compensation. 
 Elements of Compensation  
        Our compensation structure for our Named Executive Officers consists of a combination of (1) base salary,
(2) long-term incentive awards (equity awards),
(3) company paid benefits, and (4) discretionary bonuses. The Compensation Committee also takes into account certain change in control provisions available to our Named Executive
Officers. 
        Both
of Mr. Crossman, our President and Chief Executive Office, and Mr. Dahan, our Creative Director, have employment agreements. Mr. Sandhu is an
at-will employee. Mr. Sandhu was given an employment offer letter in connection with his offer of employment as our Chief Financial Officer in August 2007. 

 Engagement of Compensation Consultant  

        In September 2007, our Compensation Committee engaged a compensation consultant, Mercer Human Resources Consulting, to serve as an
independent advisor to the Compensation Committee to conduct a review of the compensation for our Chief Executive Officer and non-employee Directors, examine the pay level and practices of
a group of peer companies similar in terms of size and industry, highlight trends in such compensation and provide recommendations regarding our practices. Mercer prepared for our Compensation
Committee a competitive analysis of compensation utilizing comparable 
42



 
Table of Contents
company
compensation data, including size and industry appropriate survey data and advice around short and long-term incentive programs. The information prepared by Mercer provided the
Compensation Committee with data to allow them to evaluate and determine an appropriate amount for a bonus and equity award grant for our Chief Executive Officer for fiscal 2007 and compensation for
non-employee directors. More particularly, this information provided the basis for discussion of compensation for inclusion in the employment agreement for fiscal 2008 for our Chief
Executive Officer and was utilized in connection with evaluating compensation for non-employee directors. 
        The
peer companies selected for comparison purposes included other apparel, footwear and accessories companies of a comparable size with publicly available information. The companies in
the peer group selected in 2007 were as follows: True Religion; Cutter & Buck; Lacrosse Footwear; Iconix Brand Group; Everlast Worldwide; Sport-Haley; Chaus; Cygne Designs; Isaacs
IC & Co.; Nitches; Cherokee; and People's Liberation. 
        The
information presented included data for the 75th percentile, 50th percentile, and 25th percentile. Our Compensation
Committee determined that based upon the data presented, the total direct compensation for our Chief Executive Officer in prior years was just below the 25th percentile due to a
lack of cash bonus opportunity. Thus, the Compensation Committee believed that a cash bonus would be an important element of compensation for our Chief Executive Officer. 

 Base Salary  

        Our Compensation Committee reviews base salary for Chief Executive Officer on an annual basis, and considers the recommendation by the
Chief Executive Officer for the other Named Executive Officers other than the Chief Executive Officer. The Compensation Committee utilized the data from Mercer as a basis for the discussion of our
Chief Executive Officer's salary for fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2008, our Chief Executive Officer's base salary was increased to $429,300, which represented the amount in the
50th percentile of the peer group companies. Our Chief Executive Officer's base salary, as well as the base salary of our other Named Executive Officers, has remained unchanged
since fiscal 2008. 

 Bonuses  

        Historically, the Compensation Committee did not grant a bonus to our Chief Executive Officer. Recognizing the importance of this
element of compensation, in fiscal 2008, the Compensation Committee included in Mr. Crossman's employment agreement a bonus provision which targeted his bonus at 50 percent of his base
salary based upon certain performance measures. The Compensation Committee discussed the formal criteria for Mr. Crossman's 2008 performance measures noting that the performance measures set
for this fiscal year would be utilized in future fiscal years. The Committee discussed various methods of measurement noting that the following were drivers to our overall performance. Those methods
of measurement included Earnings Before Income, Taxes and Depreciation (EBITDA), net profits, store performance, net sales, gross margins and inventory. After this discussion, the Compensation
Committee decided to utilize EBITDA and net sales weighted equally as the performance measures for Mr. Crossman's bonus. In February 2012, the Compensation Committee awarded a bonus to
Mr. Crossman in the amount of $184,313. 

 Long-Term Incentive Compensation  

        Our Compensation Committee administers our stock incentive plans and believes that the long-term commitment of our
employees, including our Named
Executive Officers, is an important factor in our future performance. The primary element used to promote the long-term performance and commitment of our Named Executive Officers is
long-term incentive compensation through grants of stock options and restricted stock. In fiscal 2007, the Compensation Committee shifted from its past 
43



 
Table of Contents
practice
of granting options to purchase shares of our common stock to granting restricted common stock. This decision to change past practices was in part due to fluctuations in the market price of
our common stock and the decision to re-price out-of-the-money incentive stock options in fiscal 2006 as part of a retention incentive. The Compensation
Committee believes that equity grants with time-based vesting restrictions aid in retention and better align the interests of our Named Executive Officers with those of our stockholders.
Further, the equity grants motivate our Named Executive Officers to make long-term decisions that are in our best interest and to provide incentive to maximize stockholder value. 
        We
do not coordinate the timing of equity award grants with the release of financial results or other material announcements by us and generally, we have made annual equity grants to our
Chief Executive Officer and non-employee directors in connection with our annual meeting of stockholders. 
        We
believe that providing Named Executive Officers who have responsibility for our management and growth with an opportunity to increase their stock ownership aligns the interests of the
executive officers with those of our stockholders. Accordingly, the Compensation Committee also considers equity grants to be an important aspect in compensating and providing incentives to management
and employees. The Compensation Committee determines the number of shares for each stock incentive grant based upon the executive officer's role and responsibilities, the executive officer's base
salary, the recommendation of our Chief Executive Officer of the job performance of the individual. For the equity grants to our Chief Executive Officer and our non-employee directors, the
Compensation Committee also utilized the data presented and compared with comparable awards to individuals in similar positions in our industry. 
        Based
upon this data, Mr. Crossman's employment agreement contained a provision which set forth his long-term incentive compensation through a grant of restricted
stock or restricted stock units pursuant to the 2004 Incentive Plan with a fair market value equal to 100 percent of his base salary. For fiscal 2010, Mr. Crossman received a grant of
restricted stock in the amount of 260,182 shares that vest 1/3 on each anniversary date of the grant in 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Mr. Dahan and Mr. Sandhu, our
other Named Executive Officers, each received a grant of restricted stock units, or RSUs, in the amount of 181,818 and 69,545, respectively, that vest in an amount equal to 1/8 of the
total grant on June 18, 2011 and thereafter every six months until the Restricted Common Stock Units, or RSUs, are fully vested on December 18, 2014. In February 2012,
Mr. Crossman received a grant of
restricted stock in the amount of 670,781 shares that vest 1/3 on each anniversary date of the grant in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively, in accordance with the terms of his employment
agreement for fiscal 2011. As of February 28, 2012, no other Named Executive Officer has received a stock award. 

 Benefits  

        Benefits offered to our Named Executive Officers are substantially the same as those offered to all our regular employees and generally
include medical insurance, dental insurance, 401(k) plan, disability insurance, life insurance and flexible spending account. For our Named Executive Officers, we pay all premiums associated with such
benefits as described in the footnote 6 to the Summary Compensation Table. 

 Change in Control Provisions  

        Our Chief Executive Officer and our Creative Director have change in control provisions in each person's employment agreement. These
provisions provide these Named Executive Officers with certain compensation arrangements in the event that a change in control occurs. In addition, our stock incentive plans contain a change in
control provision which provides for the immediate vesting in full of all grants or lapse of all restrictions for all grantees, including our Named Executive Officers, in the event a change in control
occurs. 
44




 







 
Table of Contents 

 Relationship Between Elements and Objectives  

        In determining the total amount and mixture of the compensation package for our Chief Executive Officer, our Compensation Committee
subjectively considers individual performance, including past and expected contributions, overall performance of the company as a whole, long-term goals and such other factors as our
Compensation Committee determines appropriate. The use of both cash compensation (salary and bonus) and long-term compensation (equity awards) achieves the objectives of attracting,
motivating and retaining our Chief Executive Officer, other Named Executive Officers and employees. Long-term compensation realized through the use of equity awards achieves the objectives
of aligning management's interests with stockholders' interests and ensuring the long-term commitment of the management team. For fiscal 2010, the Compensation Committee considered,
evaluated and discussed the data presented to provide the basis for its discussion and decision regarding compensation and has not yet met to determine any compensation for fiscal 2011. 

 Executive Management's Involvement in Compensation Policies  

        Our Compensation Committee determines the compensation of our Chief Executive Officer and directors and reviewed and approved our
compensation of our Creative Director and Chief Financial Officer based upon the recommendation from our Chief Executive Officer regarding expected contributions, long term goals and other factors
appropriate to the respective positions. Our Compensation Committee approves all grants of equity compensation, including the pool for non-officer employees. 

 Tax Considerations  

        We generally intend to qualify executive compensation for deductibility without limitation under section 162(m) of the Internal
Revenue Code. Section 162(m) provides that, for purposes of the regular income tax and the alternative minimum tax, the otherwise allowable deduction for compensation paid or accrued with
respect to a covered employee of a publicly-held corporation (other than certain exempt performance-based compensation) is limited to no more than $1 million per year and approved
by "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m). In fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, certain payments or awards to an executive exceeded the $1 million limit and did not
otherwise meet the requirements of Section 162(m). Thus, such payments are not deductible. 

 Pension Benefits  

        We do not provide any pension benefits to any of our Named Executive Officers or employees. 

 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation  

        We do not provide any non-qualified deferred compensation to any of our Named Executive Officers or employees. 
 Executive Officer Compensation  
        The following table provides certain summary information concerning the compensation earned by our Named Executive Officers in the
position of the Principal Executive Officer, Principal Financial Officer, and Creative Director for services rendered in all capacities to us for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2011. 
45



 
Table of Contents
 Summary Compensation Table  




























Name and Principal Position



 
Year 
 
Salary(1) 
 
Bonus 
 
Stock awards(2) 
 
All other
compensation(3) 
 
Total 
 


 



 Marc Crossman
 
 
2011
 
$
462,000
 
$
328,000
(4)
$
429,000
(5)
$
23,000
 
$
1,242,000
 


 



 Chief Executive Officer and President
 
 
2010
 
 
462,000
 
 
375,000
 
 
—
 
 
22,000
 
 
859,000
 


 Hamish Sandhu
 
 

2011
 
 

267,000
 
 

—
 
 

115,000
(6)
 

23,000
 
 

405,000
 


 Chief Financial Officer
 
 
2010
 
 
267,000
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
24,000
 
 
291,000
 


 



 Joseph Dahan
 
 

2011
 
 

317,000
 
 

—
 
 

300,000
(7)
 

1,775,000
(8)
 

2,392,000
 


 



 Creative Director
 
 
2010
 
 
317,000
 
 
250,000
 
 
—
 
 
1,801,000
(8)
 
2,368,000
 








(1)Salary
amount includes a payout for earned but unused vacation at the Named Executive Officers daily rate. In accordance with our employee handbook, all
regular full-time employees are eligible to be paid out for earned but unused vacation at the end of each fiscal year.
(2)Represents
restricted common stock and restricted common stock units, or RSUs, issued pursuant to our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and reflects the dollar
amount of compensation expense recognized by us in our financial statements for reporting purposes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), later
codified in Accounting Standards Codification 718, or ASC 718. For a discussion on the assumptions made regarding the valuation of the stock awards and option awards, please see
"Note 7—Stockholders' Equity—Stock Incentive Plans" in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(3)The
following table details the components of this column. 


























Name and principal position



 
Year 
 
Benefit of company paid
health insurance(a) 
 
401(k) match 
 
Contingent
consideration(b) 
 
Total 
 


 



 Marc Crossman
 
 
2011
 
$
18,000
 
$
5,000
 
$
—
 
$
23,000
 


 



 
 
2010
 
 
16,000
 
 
6,000
 
 
—
 
 
22,000
 


 Hamish Sandhu
 
 

2011
 
 

18,000
 
 

5,000
 
 

—
 
 

23,000
 


 
 
 
2010
 
 
19,000
 
 
5,000
 
 
—
 
 
24,000
 


 



 Joseph Dahan
 
 

2011
 
 

18,000
 
 

—
 
 

1,757,000
 
 

1,775,000
 


 



 
 
2010
 
 
16,000
 
 
—
 
 
1,785,000
 
 
1,801,000
 








(a)This
amount represents health premiums paid on behalf of the Named Executive Officer in excess of premiums paid for other employees.
(b)This
amount represents contingent consideration payments paid to Mr. Dahan in connection with the merger agreement with JD Holdings. The payments are
not part of his employment agreement, but included in the merger agreement and he is entitled to the payments irrespective of his employment status. 



(4)Mr. Crossman
was awarded a bonus in January 2011 for his service for fiscal 2010 and thus, is included in compensation for fiscal 2011. 

46



 
Table of Contents


(5)The
restricted common stock was granted to Mr. Crossman on January 3, 2011 for service for 2010 and vests one-third on each year
thereafter from the date of grant. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest. See also footnote (2) above for discussion on compensation amount.
(6)The
RSUs were granted to Mr. Sandhu on January 3, 2011 for service for 2010 and vest as follows: one-eighth of the shares began
vesting on June 18, 2011 and the remaining RSUs vest every six months thereafter over a four year period. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest. See also footnote (2) above
for discussion on compensation amount.
(7)The
RSUs were granted to Mr. Dahan on January 3, 2011 for service for 2010 and vest as follows: one-eighth of the shares began
vesting on June 18, 2011 and the remaining RSUs vest every six months thereafter over a four year period. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest. See also footnote (2) above
for discussion on compensation amount.
(8)For
a discussion on the contingent consideration payments, please see "Employment Agreements—Joseph Dahan." 

 Grants of Plan-Based Awards  
        Our Named Executive Officers did not receive any awards pursuant to our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan in fiscal 2010. Rather, the grants of
plan based awards were made in January 2011. In February 2012, Mr. Crossman received a grant of restricted stock in accordance with the terms of his employment agreement for fiscal 2011. As of
February 28, 2012, no other Named Executive Officer has received a stock award. 
 Outstanding Equity Award at Fiscal Year-End  
        The following table sets forth information regarding outstanding equity awards held by our Named Executive Officers during our fiscal
year ended November 30, 2011: 


































 
 
Option awards 
 
Stock awards 
 
 
 


 
 
Equity incentive
plan awards:
Market or
payout value of
unearned shares,
units or other
rights that
have not vested 
 


Name



 
Number of
securities
underlying
unexercised
options
Exercisable 
 
Number of
securities
underlying
unexercised
options
Unexercisable 
 
Option
exercise
price 
 
Option
expiration
date 
 
Number of
shares or units of
stock that have
not vested 
 
Market value of
shares or units of
stock that have
not vested 
 
Equity incentive
plan awards:
Number of
unearned shares,
units or other
rights that
have not vested 
 


 



 Marc Crossman
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
260,182
(1)
$
135,295
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
204,428
(2)
$
106,303
 


 



 
 

10,000
(3)
 
 
 
$

1.00
 
 

17-Apr-12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
7,874
(3)
 
 
 
$
1.27
 
 
27-Nov-12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 
 
200,000
(3)
 
 
 
$
1.63
 
 
3-Sep-14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hamish Sandhu
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

60,852
(4)
$

31,643
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
96,875
(5)
$
50,375
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
56,250
(6)
$
29,250
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12,500
(7)
$
6,500
 


 



 Joseph Dahan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

159,091
(4)
$

82,727
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
284,375
(5)
$
147,875
 


 



 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
204,750
(6)
$
106,470
 








(1)These
shares vest as follows: one-third of the shares vest on January 3, 2012; one-third of the shares vest on
January 3, 2013; and one-third of the shares vest on January 3, 2014.
(2)These
shares vest as follows: 156,484 shares vest on October 8, 2012 and 47,944 shares vest on November 9, 2012, respectively. This figure
represents the remaining amount to vest.
(3)Each
of these grants of stock options are fully vested and were fully vested as of the following dates: April 17, 2003, November 27, 2003 and
September 3, 2005, respectively. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest. 

47



 
Table of Contents


(4)These
RSUs vest as follows: one-eighth of the RSUs began vesting on June 18, 2011 and the remaining RSUs vest every six months thereafter
over a four year period. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest.
(5)These
RSUs vest as follows: one-eighth of the RSUs began vesting on June 18, 2010 and the remaining RSUs vest every six months thereafter
over a four year period. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest.
(6)These
RSUs vest as follows: one-eighth of the RSUs began vesting on June 18, 2009 and the remaining RSUs vest every six months thereafter
over a four year period. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest.
(7)On
December 18, 2007, Mr. Sandhu elected to forfeit and cancel his stock option award in exchange for a grant of 100,000 restricted common
stock units on the same terms and conditions granted to other non-officer employees. The restricted common stock units are scheduled to vest every six months over a four year period after
December 18, 2007. Mr. Sandhu's stock option award was scheduled to vest on a monthly basis over a two year period on the 27th day of each month beginning on
September 27, 2007. This figure represents the remaining amount to vest. 

 Option Exercises and Stock Vested  
        There were no option exercises by our Named Executive Officers in our fiscal year ended November 30, 2011. During fiscal 2011,
847,531 shares of restricted stock or RSUs vested for our Named Executive Officers. 
















 
 
Stock Awards 
 


Name



 
Number of shares
acquired on Exercise (#) 
 
Value Realized on
Exercise ($) 
 


 Marc Crossman
 
 
464,611
 
$
319,000
 


 Hamish Sandhu
 
 

109,943
 
$

99,000
 


 Joseph Dahan
 
 

272,977
 
$

192,000
 




 Employment Contracts and Termination of Employment and Change in Control Arrangements  
 Change in Control Provisions  
        Our Chief Executive Officer and our Creative Director and have change in control provisions in each person's employment agreement,
respectively. These provisions provide these Named Executive Officers with certain compensation arrangements in the event that a change in control occurs. In addition, our Amended and Restated Stock
Incentive Plan and our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan each contain a change in control provision which provides for the immediate vesting in
full of all grants or lapse of all restrictions for all grantees, including our Named Executive Officers, in the event a change in control occurs. 
 Marc Crossman  
        On May 30, 2008, we entered into an Executive Employment Agreement, or the Crossman Employment Agreement, with
Mr. Crossman to serve as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Crossman has been serving as our President since September 2004 and as Chief Executive Officer since January 2006
under an employment at-will arrangement. In connection with the execution of the Crossman Employment Agreement, Mr. Crossman received the second payment of his bonus for fiscal 2007
in the amount of $150,000, as described above. 
        Under
the terms of the Crossman Employment Agreement, Mr. Crossman receives an annual salary of $429,300 and is entitled to receive other cash and non-cash
compensation, including an annual discretionary bonus targeted at 50% of his base salary based upon the achievement of financial and other performance criteria as set forth in the Crossman Employment
Agreement, an annual grant of equity compensation pursuant to the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, and life and disability insurance policies paid on his behalf. The Crossman Employment Agreement is
effective as of December 1, 2007, the commencement of our 2008 fiscal year, and had an initial term of two years, which automatically renewed for another two year period on December 1,
2009 and December 1, 2011. The Crossman 
48



 
Table of Contents
Employment
Agreement automatically renews for additional two year periods if neither Joe's nor Mr. Crossman provide 180 days' advanced notice of non-renewal prior to the end
of the term or upon the occurrence of a change in control. 
        In
the event that Mr. Crossman's employment is terminated by us other than for cause, terminated by Mr. Crossman for good reason, terminated by us within 18 months
following a change in control and without cause, or terminated by Mr. Crossman within 18 months following a change in control and for good reason, Mr. Crossman will be entitled to
certain severance payments and benefits, including an amount equal to 24 months of his prior year's base salary and bonus in exchange for his execution of a release of claims.
Mr. Crossman will not be entitled to severance benefits if he dies during the term of his employment, he is terminated for cause or due to disability, he terminates his employment for a reason
other than a good reason, or revokes his agreement to release us from any and all claims related to his employment. 
        Mr. Crossman
is subject to confidentiality, non-solicitation and non-competition restrictions during the term of his employment and is subject to the
confidentiality and non-solicitation provisions for a period of two years following termination of his employment. 
 Joseph M. Dahan  
        In connection with the completion of a merger between us, our Joe's Subsidiary and JD Holdings, Mr. Dahan's employment agreement
automatically became effective for service as our Creative Director. Under the employment agreement, the initial term of employment is five years with automatic renewals for successive one year
periods thereafter, unless terminated earlier. Mr. Dahan is entitled to an annual salary of $300,000 and other discretionary benefits that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors
may deem appropriate in its sole and absolute discretion. 
        Under
the terms of the employment agreement, we may terminate Mr. Dahan for Cause or if he becomes Disabled. "Cause" is defined as (i) a conviction, plea of guilty or nolo
contendere to a felony or a crime of moral turpitude; (ii) a material breach of any provision of the employment agreement that is not cured within 45 days of receipt of written notice of
such breach; (iii) the solicitation, persuasion or attempt at persuasion for any employee, consultant, contractor, customer or potential customer to engage in an act prohibited by the
employment agreement; or (iv) a violation of any of our policies in our handbook or code of ethics and such violation constitutes a breach of the Code of Ethics or warrants termination.
"Disability" is defined as inability to perform duties for 180 consecutive days or shorter periods aggregating 270 days during any 12 month period. 
        Should
we terminate Mr. Dahan's employment for Cause or Disability, we would only be required to pay him through the date of termination. We may terminate Mr. Dahan's
employment without Cause at any time upon two weeks' notice, provided that we pay him the present value of the annual salary amounts otherwise due to him for the remainder of the initial term of
employment or any renewal term. Mr. Dahan may terminate his employment for Good Reason at any time within 30 days written notice. "Good Reason" is defined as (i) a material breach
of the employment agreement by us that is not cured within 30 days of written notice; or (ii) Mr. Dahan's decision to terminate employment at any time after 18 months
following a Change in Control. A "Change in Control" is defined as (i) the sale or disposal of all or substantially all of the assets; (ii) the merger or consolidation with another
company provided that our stockholders as a group no longer own at least 50 percent of the voting power of the surviving corporation; (iii) any person or entity becoming the beneficial
owner of 50 percent or more of our combined voting power; or (iv) the approval by our stockholders to liquidate or dissolve. In the event that Mr. Dahan terminates his employment
for Good Reason, then he will be entitled to the present value of the annual salary amounts otherwise due to him for the remainder of the initial term of employment or any renewal term. Further,
Mr. Dahan may 
49



 
Table of Contents
terminate
his employment for any reason upon ten business days' notice and only be entitled to his salary as of the date of termination on a pro rata basis. 
        The
employment agreement contains customary terms and conditions related to confidentiality of information, ownership by us of all intellectual property, including future designs and
trademarks, alternative dispute resolution and Mr. Dahan's duties and responsibilities to us as Creative Director. 
        In
addition, pursuant to the merger agreement, Mr. Dahan is entitled to, for 120 months following October 25, 2007, irrespective of his employment status, the
following additional payments based upon our achievement of certain gross profit thresholds on sales from our Joe's® brand products. If our gross profit is less than $11,250,000 in the
applicable fiscal year, then Mr. Dahan does not receive any additional payment. If our gross profit is from $11,251,000 to $22,500,000, then Mr. Dahan receives a payment of 11.33% of the
gross profit earned in the applicable fiscal year. Thereafter, he earns (i) three percent of the gross profit from $22,501,000 to $31,500,000; (ii) two percent of the gross profit from
$31,501,000 to $40,500,000; and (iii) one percent of the gross profit above $40,501,000 in the applicable fiscal year. We account for these contingent payments as compensation expense. 

 Hamish Sandhu  

        In connection with Mr. Sandhu's appointment as CFO, we entered into a written offer letter whereby Mr. Sandhu agreed to
serve as our CFO. Under the terms of the offer letter, Mr. Sandhu's annual base salary was $205,000, which was increased to $255,000 in November 2008. In addition, Mr. Sandhu received a
grant on August 27, 2007, pursuant to our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, to purchase up to 100,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price equal to the closing price of our common stock on
that date. The option was forfeited in connection with a subsequent grant of RSUs in December 2007. We also agreed to pay the full cost of participation in our health insurance plan for
Mr. Sandhu and his family. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Mr. Sandhu is an employee at-will and has not entered into an employment agreement with us. 
 Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, Restricted Stock Agreement and Restricted Stock Unit Awards  
        Under the terms both of the Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, all unvested awards
accelerate and immediately vest upon the occurrence of a Change in Control for all grantees. Further, Mr. Crossman's Restricted Stock Agreement and each RSU Award contains certain provisions
regarding the terms and conditions of the grant. Each vests upon the earliest to occur of the participant's Death, Disability (each as defined in the Plan), or separation from service by us without
Just Cause (as defined below). Upon a separation from service for any other reason (including, without limitation, termination by us for Just Cause or by participant for any reason) prior to the date
that participant becomes 100 percent vested in the award, the unvested units or shares are forfeited immediately. Under the award agreements, "Just Cause" means (a) a conviction for, or
a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, a felony or any other crime which involves fraud, dishonesty or moral turpitude, or (b) a material breach of any written employment policies or rules,
including our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. 
50




 










Table of Contents 
 Director Compensation  
        Historically, our non-employee directors have been compensated for service through an equity grant or on a cash basis. Our
directors are not compensated in any other manner; however, they are reimbursed for travel and business expenses associated with attending our annual meeting if the Director's schedule permits such
attendance. Attendance in person is not required, but we try to accommodate schedules in planning the date and encourage our directors and director nominees to attend the annual meeting of
stockholders. In fiscal 2011, all directors, except for Suhail Rizvi, attended our annual meeting in person. No compensation was approved for non-employee directors during fiscal 2011.
After the end of our fiscal year for 2011, on December 6, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved grants of RSUs with a fair market value of $70,000 to each
non-employee director, which the non-employee director had the option to elect all RSUs or 1/3 of the fair market value in cash and 2/3 in RSUs or
the entire award in cash to be paid quarterly. The following non-employee directors each received 118,644 RSUs: Sam Furrow and Suhail Rizvi. The following non-employee director
received 79,096 RSUs and $23,333 in cash: Kent Savage. Tom O'Riordan and Kelly Hoffman each received $70,000 as a cash retainer. The RSUs vest and the cash amounts are paid on a quarterly basis over
the course of 12 months. This amount was determined based upon the peer group analysis and was in the 50th percentile of peer group companies. 



















Name



 
Fees earned or
paid in cash 
 
Stock Awards(1) 
 
Total 
 


 Sam Furrow
 
$
—
 
$
70,000
 
$
70,000
 


 Suhail Rizvi
 
 
—
 
 
70,000
 
 
70,000
 


 Kent Savage
 
 
23,333
 
 
46,667
 
 
70,000
 


 Tom O'Riordan
 
 
70,000
 
 
—
 
 
70,000
 


 Kelly Hoffman
 
 
70,000
 
 
—
 
 
70,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
163,333
 
$
186,667
 
$
350,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)Represents
118,644 or 79,096 shares of RSUs granted to our non-employee directors on December 6, 2011 (subsequent to the end of fiscal
2011) pursuant to the Amended Stock Incentive Plan and reflects the dollar amount of compensation expense recognized by us in our financial statements for reporting purposes in accordance ASC 718. The
RSUs vest on a quarterly basis over a 12 month period with the first tranche vesting on March 6, 2012. For a discussion on the assumptions made regarding the valuation of the stock
awards, please see "Note 7—Stockholders' Equity—Stock Incentive Plans" in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There were no stock awards made or compensation
approved during fiscal 2011. 

 
    ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDERS MATTERS.     
        The following table provides information as of February 28, 2012 concerning beneficial ownership of common stock held by
(1) each person or entity known by us to beneficially own more than 5 percent of our outstanding common stock, (2) each of our directors and nominees for election as a director,
(3) each of our named executive officers, and (4) all of our directors and executive officers as a group. The information as to beneficial ownership has been furnished by our respective
common stockholders, directors and executive officers, and, unless otherwise indicated, each of our common stockholders has sole voting and investment power with respect to the shares beneficially
owned. Beneficial ownership is determined under the rules of the SEC and generally includes voting or investment power with respect to securities. 
51



 
Table of Contents
        Unless
indicated below, to our knowledge, the persons and entities named in the table below have sole voting and sole investment power with respect to all shares beneficially owned,
subject to community property laws where applicable. Pursuant to the rules of the SEC, certain shares of our common stock that a beneficial owner set forth in this table has a right to acquire within
60 days of the date hereof (pursuant to the exercise of options or warrants for the purchase of shares of common stock) are deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of computing the percentage
ownership of that owner, but are not deemed outstanding for the purpose of computing percentage ownership of any other beneficial owner shown in the table. Percentages are calculated based on
66,205,824 shares outstanding as of February 28, 2012. The address for the officers and directors is our corporate office located at 2340 South Eastern Avenue, Commerce, California, 90040. 
















Beneficial Owner



 
Number of Shares
Beneficially Owned 
 
Percentage of
Common Stock 
 


 



 Marc B. Crossman
 
 
2,338,406
(1)
 
3.52
%


 



 Chief Executive Officer, President and Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Hamish Sandhu
 
 

75,120
(2)
 

*
 


 Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Joseph M. Dahan
 
 

11,496,259
(3)
 

17.36
%


 



 Creative Director and Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Samuel J. (Sam) Furrow
 
 

1,946,060
(4)
 

2.93
%


 Chairman of Board of Directors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Kelly Hoffman
 
 

127,945
(5)
 

*
 


 



 Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Tom O'Riordan
 
 

90,664
 
 

*
 


 Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 Suhail R. Rizvi
 
 

119,209
(6)
 

*
 


 



 Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Kent Savage
 
 

358,768
(7)
 

*
 


 Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 



 All directors and executive officers, as a group (8 persons)
 
 
16,552,431
 
 
24.77
%








*Represents
beneficial ownership of less than 1%.
(1)Includes
(i) 2,070,532 shares held for Mr. Crossman's personal account including (a) 670,781 shares of restricted common stock which
vest ratably as follows: one-third on February 16, 2013, one-third on February 16, 2014, one-third on February 16, 2015; (b) 173,455
shares of restricted common stock which vest ratably as follows: one-half on January 3, 2013; and one-half on January 3, 2014; (c) 156,484 shares of
restricted common stock which vest on October 8, 2012; and (d) 47,944 shares of restricted common stock which vest on November 6, 2012; (ii) 50,000 shares held for the
accounts in trust for Mr. Crossman's minor children, which Mr. Crossman's father is the trustee; and (iii) 217,874 shares issuable upon the exercise of currently exercisable (or
exercisable within 60 days) options held for Mr. Crossman's personal account. Mr. Crossman disclaims beneficial ownership of shares held for the accounts in trust for his minor
children. 

52



 
Table of Contents


(2)Excludes
the following shares not exercisable or vested within 60 days: 167,159 shares of RSUs held for Mr. Sandhu's personal account which
vest over a four year period and are issued ratably every six months on December 18 and June 18 of the respective years.
(3)Includes
(i) 11,473,998 shares held for the personal account of Mr. Dahan; and (ii) 22,261 shares held for the account of
Mr. Dahan's spouse. Excludes the following shares not exercisable or vested within 60 days: (i) 500,364 RSUs held for Mr. Dahan's personal account which vest and are issued
ratably every six months on December 18 and June 18 of the respective years after the grant; and (ii) 56,514 RSUs held for the account of Mr. Dahan's spouse which vest and
are issued ratably every six months on December 18 and June 18 of the respective years after the grant. Mr. Dahan disclaims beneficial ownership of shares held for the account of
his spouse.
(4)Includes
(i) 1,825,533 shares held for the personal account of Mr. Furrow; (ii) 15,300 shares held for the account of
Mr. Furrow's spouse; (iii) 75,566 shares issuable upon the exercise of currently exercisable (or exercisable within 60 days) options; and (iii) 29,661 RSUs held for
Mr. Furrow's personal account which vest on March 6, 2012. Excludes the following shares not exercisable or vested within 60 days: (i) 88,983 RSUs held for
Mr. Furrow's personal account which vest and are issued ratably on a quarterly basis with the first tranche vested on March 6, 2012 (within 60 days) and thereafter until the
shares are fully vested on December 6, 2012. Mr. Furrow disclaims beneficial ownership of shares held for the account of his spouse. Mr. Furrow has pledged under the terms of
certain loan agreements and lines of credit an aggregate of 1,755,984 shares of common stock held in his personal account.
(5)Includes
(i) 77,945 shares held for Mr. Hoffman's personal account; and (ii) 50,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of currently
exercisable (or exercisable within 60 days) options held for Mr. Hoffman's personal account.
(6)Includes
(i) 39,548 shares held for the personal account of Mr. Rizvi; (ii) 50,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of currently
exercisable (or exercisable within 60 days) options held for Mr. Rizvi's personal account; and (iii) 29,661 RSUs held for Mr. Rizvi's personal account which vest on
March 6, 2012. Excludes 88,983 RSUs held for Mr. Rizvi's personal account which vest and are issued ratably on a quarterly basis with the first tranche vested on March 6, 2012
(within 60 days) and thereafter until the shares are fully vested on December 6, 2012.
(7)Includes
(i) 178,744 shares held for the personal account of Mr. Savage; (ii) 10,250 shares held for the account of Savage
Interests LP, a limited partnership which Mr. Savage and his spouse are limited partners; (iii) 150,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of currently exercisable (or exercisable
within 60 days) options held for Mr. Savage's personal account; and (iv) 19,774 RSUs held for Mr. Savage's personal account which vest on March 6, 2012 . Excludes
59,322 RSUs held for Mr. Savage's personal account which vest and are issued ratably on a quarterly basis with the first tranche vested on March 6, 2012 (within 60 days) and
thereafter until the shares are fully vested on December 6, 2012. Mr. Savage disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares held for the account of Savage Interests LP except to
the extent of his pecuniary interest in such shares. 

 Equity Compensation Plan Information  
        The following table sets forth certain information about our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and
rights under all of the our compensation plans (including individual compensation arrangements) under which our equity securities are authorized for issuance as of November 30, 2011, which
includes our Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, our 2004 
53



 
Table of Contents
Stock
Incentive Plan and our 2000 Director Stock Incentive Plan. We stopped granting options under our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and 2000 Director Stock Incentive Plan after the adoption and approval
of our Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan on October 26, 2011 and our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan on June 3, 2004, respectively. 



















Plan category



 
Number of securities
to be issued upon
exercise of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights 
 
Weighted-average
exercise price of
outstanding options,
warrants and rights 
 
Number of securities
remaining available for
future issuance under
equity compensation plans
(excluding securities
reflected in column (a)) 
 


 
 
(a)
 
(b)
 
(c)
 


 Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
 
 
—
 
$
—
 
 
6,825,000
 


 2004 Incentive Plan
 
 
775,000
 
$
4.03
 
 
N/A
(2)


 2000 Director Plan
 
 
93,290
 
$
1.16
 
 
N/A
(2)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
868,290
 
$
3.73
 
 
6,825,000
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 








(1)See
"Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan," "2004 Stock Incentive Plan" and "2000 Director Stock Incentive Plan" described in "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7—Stockholders' Equity—Stock Incentive Plans" for a further description of our equity compensation plans.
(2)While
there are shares available, we no longer grant options under our 2000 Director Stock Incentive Plan since the adoption and approval of our 2004 Stock
Incentive Plan on June 3, 2004 or our 2004 Stock Incentive Plan since the adoption and approval of our Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan on October 26, 2011. 

 
    ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.     
        Our Audit Committee charter provides that that all transactions between us and persons or entities affiliated with our officers,
directors or principal common stockholders must be approved by our Audit Committee. We believe that this policy requiring that any material transaction between us and such related parties be approved
by our Audit Committee ensures that such transactions are on terms no less favorable to us than reasonably could have been obtained in arms' length transactions with independent third parties. 
 Joe Dahan  
        As part of the consideration paid in connection with the merger with JD Holdings that was consummated in October 2007, Mr. Dahan
is entitled to a certain percentage of the gross profit earned by us in any applicable fiscal year until October 2017. Mr. Dahan will be entitled to the following:
(i) 11.33 percent of the gross profit from $11,251,000 to $22,500,000; (ii) 3 percent of the
gross profit from $22,501,000 to $31,500,000; (iii) 2 percent of the gross profit from $31,501,000 to $40,500,000; and (iv) 1 percent of the gross profit above $40,501,000. 
        For
fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, payments of $1,757,000, $1,785,000, and $1,672,000, respectively, were made to Mr. Dahan. 
54



 
Table of Contents

 Albert Dahan  

        In April 2009, Joe's entered into a commission-based sales agreement with Albert Dahan, brother of Joe Dahan, for the sale of its
products into the off-price channels of distribution. Under the agreement, Mr. Albert Dahan is entitled to a commission for purchase orders entered into by Joe's where he acts as a
sales person for Joe's. The agreement may be terminated at any time for any reason or no reason with or without notice. For fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, payments of $580,000, $719,000 and $413,000,
respectively, were made to Mr. Albert Dahan under this arrangement. 
        Effective
as of June 1, 2009, we entered into a license agreement for the license of the children's product line with Kids Jeans LLC, or Kids LLC, an entity in which
Mr. Albert Dahan holds an interest and has voting control. Under the terms of the license, Kids LLC had an exclusive right to produce, distribute and sell children's products bearing the
Joe's® brand on a worldwide basis, subject to certain limitations on the channels of distribution. In exchange for the license, Kids LLC paid us a royalty payment of
20 percent on the first $5,000,000 in net sales, or $1,000,000. In April 2011, we terminated the license agreement and in June 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement with Kids LLC.
Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, Kids LLC agreed to pay to us approximately $450,000 in exchange for Kids LLC's right to continue to sell children's apparel products
until September 30, 2011 or December 31, 2011, depending on the product to be sold and customer to whom it will be sold. In exchange, the parties entered into mutual releases with
respect to all claims related to the subject matter. In October 2011, we entered into a new agreement, or New Agreement, similar to the previous one, with Ever Blue LLC, or Ever Blue, an entity
which Albert Dahan is the sole member, for the continued sale of children's products. In exchange for the license, Ever Blue pays to us a royalty on net sales with certain guaranteed minimum sales for
each term. In connection with the New Agreement, we provided initial funding to Ever Blue for inventory purchases. The amount outstanding at November 30, 2011 was $529,000 and is due on demand. 
 Director Independence  
        Currently, the following members of our Board of Directors are considered "independent" under NASDAQ listing standards and as such term
is defined in the rules and regulations of the SEC:


•Kelly Hoffman 
•Thomas O'Riordan 
•Suhail Rizvi 
•Kent Savage 
•Sam Furrow 

        In
making its determination that the foregoing directors are independent, the Board considered all relevant facts and circumstances. The Board considered the transactions with various
Board members and concluded that they do not have any impact on the respective member's independence. We do not have any past or present members serving on our Audit Committee, Compensation and Stock
Option Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee that are not considered to be independent.  
 
    ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.     
        For the fiscal years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010, Ernst &Young LLP, or E&Y, billed the approximate fees as
described below. 
55




 










Table of Contents 
 Audit Fees  
        Fees for audit services totaled approximately $433,000 for the year ended November 30, 2011 and $432,000 for the year ended
November 30, 2010, including fees associated with the annual audit and reviews of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. 
 Audit-Related Fees  
        There were no fees for audit-related services for the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010. 
 Tax Fees  
        Fees for tax services, including tax compliance and return preparation, tax advice, and tax planning, totaled approximately $76,000 for
the year ended November 30, 2011 and $100,000 for the year ended November 30, 2010. 
 All Other Fees  
        There were no other fees for the years ended November 30, 2011 and November 30, 2010. 
        The
Audit Committee has adopted a policy which requires the Audit Committee's pre-approval of audit and non-audit services performed by the independent auditor to
assure that the provision of such services does not impair the auditor's independence. The Audit Committee approves such services on an on-going basis prior to the incurrence of any such
audit and non-audit services. The Audit Committee pre-approved all of the audit and non-audit services rendered by E&Y listed above. 
        The
Audit Committee has determined that the services provided by E&Y were compatible with maintaining E&Y's independence. 
56



 
Table of Contents
 
  PART IV     
    ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     

(a)List
of documents filed as a part of this Annual Report: 

1
and 2. Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules 

 















Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:



 
 
 


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
F-1
 


 Consolidated Balance Sheets at November 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 

F-2
 


 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 

F-3
 


 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 

F-4
 


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 

F-5
 


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 

F-6
 


 Schedule II—Valuation of Qualifying Accounts
 
 

F-30
 





57



 
Table of Contents

(a)3.
Exhibits (listed according to the number assigned in the table in Item 601 of Regulation S-K) 














Exhibit Number 
 
Description 
 
Document if Incorporated by
Reference 


 
3.1
 
Seventh Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant
 
Exhibit 4.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 15, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
3.2
 
Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant
 
Exhibit 4.2 to Registration Statement on Form S-8 filed on November 12, 1993


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.1
 
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and between Joe's Jeans Inc. and Joseph M. Dahan to be effective upon closing of the Merger Agreement (Schedule 6.2(c) to Merger Agreement)
 
Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 26, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.2
 
Investor Rights Agreement by and between Joe's Jeans Inc. and Joseph M. Dahan
 
Exhibit 10.2 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.3
 
Factoring Agreement dated June 1, 2001 between Joe's Jeans, Inc. and CIT Commercial Services
 
Exhibit 10.4 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended August 30, 2003 filed on October 14, 2003


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.4
 
Inventory Security Agreement dated August 20, 2002 between Joe's Jeans Inc. and CIT Commercial Services
 
Exhibit 10.7 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended August 30, 2003 filed on October 14, 2003


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.5
 
Amendment to Factoring Agreement originally dated June 1, 2001 between Joe's Jeans Inc. and CIT Commercial Services dated effective April 23, 2003
 
Exhibit 10.6 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended May 31, 2003 filed on July 15, 2003


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.7
 
2000 Director Option Plan
 
Attachment E to Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on September 19, 2000


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.8
 
2004 Stock Incentive Plan
 
Exhibit A to Definitive Merger Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on September 10, 2009


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.12
 
Offer Letter by and between Innovo Group Inc. and Hamish Sandhu
 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 27, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.13
 
Amendment to Factoring Agreement by and among Joe's Jeans Subsidiary Inc. (formerly Joe's Jeans Inc.), Joe's Jeans Inc. (formerly Innovo Group Inc.) and The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc.
dated October 24, 2007
 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.14
 
Amendment to Guaranty Agreement by and between Joe's Jeans Inc. (formerly Innovo Group Inc.) and The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc. dated October 24, 2007
 
Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 30, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.16
 
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Members of the Board of Directors
 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2007


 


 
 
 
 




58



 
Table of Contents














Exhibit Number 
 
Description 
 
Document if Incorporated by
Reference 


 
10.17
 
Restricted Stock Agreement for Marc B. Crossman
 
Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.18
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
 
Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 21, 2007


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.19
 
Executive Employment Agreement by and between Joe's Jeans Inc. and Marc B. Crossman dated May 30, 2008
 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 5, 2008


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.20
 
Letter Agreement with Pixior LLC
 
Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2008 filed on April 29, 2009


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.21
 
Global Customer Surcharge Letter Agreement with The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc. dated March 11, 2009
 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 17, 2009


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.22
 
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement
 
Exhibit 10.3 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 14, 2009


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.23
 
Agreement with Dependable Distribution Centers dated January 8, 2010
 
Exhibit 10.23 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2009 filed on February 3, 2010


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.25
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement
 
Exhibit 10.1 to Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended February 28, 2010 filed on April 8, 2010


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.26
 
Amendment to Factoring Agreement by and among Joe's Jeans Subsidiary Inc., Joe's Jeans Inc. and The CIT Group/Commercial Services, Inc. dated May 5, 2010
 
Exhibit 10.1 to Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2010


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.27
 
Gross Lease Agreement by and between Mass Transit Properties LLC and Joe's Jeans Inc.
 
Exhibit 10.27 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2010 filed on February 10, 2011


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.28
 
Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan
 
Exhibit A to Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed on September 19, 2011


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.29
 
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement
 
Exhibit 10.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 17, 2012


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
10.30
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
 
Filed herewith


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
14
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics adopted as of May 22, 2003
 
Exhibit 14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 29, 2003 filed on February 27, 2004


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
21
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant
 
Filed herewith


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
23
 
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Filed herewith


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
24.1
 
Power of Attorney (included on signature page)
 
Filed herewith


 


 
 
 
 




59



 
Table of Contents














Exhibit Number 
 
Description 
 
Document if Incorporated by
Reference 


 
31.1
 
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Filed herewith


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
31.2
 
Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 
Filed herewith


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
32
 
Certification of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
 
Filed herewith


 
  
 
 
 
 


 
101.1
*
The following materials from Joe's Jeans Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Language); (i) Consolidated Balance
Sheets at November 30, 2011 and 2010, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended November 30,
2011, 2010 and 2009, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and (iv) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Filed herewith








*Users
of this data are advised in accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission
that this Interactive Data File is deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, is deemed not
filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections. 

60




 







 
Table of Contents 
 
 Joe's Jeans Inc. and Subsidiaries  
 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  

 














Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:



 
 
 


 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
F-1
 


 Consolidated Balance Sheets at November 30, 2011 and 2010
 
 

F-2
 


 Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 

F-3
 


 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 

F-4
 


 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and
2009
 
 

F-5
 


 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
 

F-6
 


 Schedule II—Valuation of Qualifying Accounts
 
 

F-30
 





F-i




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Joe's Jeans Inc. and Subsidiaries
        We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Joe's Jeans Inc. and subsidiaries, (the "Company"), as of November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2011. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
        We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We are
not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing
audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
        In
our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Joe's Jeans Inc. and subsidiaries at
November 30, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended November 30, 2011, in conformity with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects the information set forth therein. 











/s/
Ernst & Young LLP 











Los
Angeles, California
February 28, 2012 
F-1




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS         (in thousands, except per share data)     
















 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 


 ASSETS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
12,690
 
$
6,410
 


 Accounts receivable, net
 
 
1,542
 
 
2,374
 


 Inventories, net
 
 
23,262
 
 
30,245
 


 Due from related parties
 
 
612
 
 
38
 


 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
2,644
 
 
3,225
 


 Prepaid expenses and other current assets
 
 
769
 
 
1,092
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current assets
 
 
41,519
 
 
43,384
 


 Property and equipment, net
 
 

5,464
 
 

5,721
 


 Goodwill
 
 
3,836
 
 
3,836
 


 Intangible assets
 
 
24,000
 
 
24,000
 


 Deferred income taxes, net
 
 
4,663
 
 
4,179
 


 Other assets
 
 
680
 
 
349
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets
 
$
80,162
 
$
81,469
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current liabilities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
$
10,499
 
$
10,373
 


 Due to factor
 
 
3,265
 
 
4,972
 


 Due to related parties
 
 
357
 
 
333
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current liabilities
 
 
14,121
 
 
15,678
 


 Deferred rent
 
 

1,284
 
 

918
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities
 
 
15,405
 
 
16,596
 


 Commitments and contingencies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Stockholders' equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Common stock, $0.10 par value: 100,000 shares authorized, 65,477 shares issued and 65,148 outstanding (2011) and 64,131 shares issued and 63,859
outstanding (2010)
 
 
6,550
 
 
6,415
 


 Additional paid-in capital
 
 
105,512
 
 
104,364
 


 Accumulated deficit
 
 
(44,214
)
 
(42,849
)


 Treasury stock, 329 shares (2011) and 272 shares (2010)
 
 
(3,091
)
 
(3,057
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total stockholders' equity
 
 
64,757
 
 
64,873
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity
 
$
80,162
 
$
81,469
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
F-2




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS         (in thousands, except per share data)     



















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 
November 30, 2009 
 


 Net sales
 
$
95,420
 
$
98,176
 
$
80,116
 


 Cost of goods sold
 
 
52,056
 
 
51,963
 
 
40,331
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross profit
 
 
43,364
 
 
46,213
 
 
39,785
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Selling, general and administrative
 
 
41,617
 
 
39,349
 
 
30,726
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1,168
 
 
843
 
 
536
 


 Retail stores impairment
 
 
1,144
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
43,929
 
 
40,192
 
 
31,262
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating (loss) income
 
 
(565
)
 
6,021
 
 
8,523
 


 Interest expense
 
 
484
 
 
464
 
 
388
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income before taxes
 
 
(1,049
)
 
5,557
 
 
8,135
 


 Income tax provision (benefit)
 
 
316
 
 
2,956
 
 
(16,385
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(1,365
)
$
2,601
 
$
24,520
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) earnings per common share—basic
 
$
(0.02
)
$
0.04
 
$
0.41
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) earnings per common share—diluted
 
$
(0.02
)
$
0.04
 
$
0.40
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average shares outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Basic
 
 
64,001
 
 
62,362
 
 
60,053
 


 Diluted
 
 
64,001
 
 
64,505
 
 
61,121
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
F-3




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY         (in thousands)     




























 
 
Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Additional
Paid-In Capital 
 
Accumulated
Deficit 
 
Treasury
Stock 
 
Total
Stockholders'
Equity 
 


 
 
Shares 
 
Par Value 
 


 Balance, November 30, 2008
 
 
59,946
 
$
5,996
 
$
102,859
 
$
(69,970
)
$
(2,800
)
$
36,085
 


 Net income
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

24,520
 
 

—
 
 

24,520
 


 Stock-based compensation, net of withholding taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
844
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
844
 


 Issuance of restricted common stock
 
 
1,548
 
 
155
 
 
(155
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Excess tax benefit on stock-based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
57
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
57
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, November 30, 2009
 
 
61,494
 
 
6,151
 
 
103,605
 
 
(45,450
)
 
(2,800
)
 
61,506
 


 Net income
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

2,601
 
 

—
 
 

2,601
 


 Stock-based compensation, net of withholding taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
801
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
801
 


 Stock repurchase
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(257
)
 
(257
)


 Exercise of warrants
 
 
566
 
 
57
 
 
596
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
653
 


 Exercise of stock options
 
 
110
 
 
11
 
 
39
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
50
 


 Net settled options exercised
 
 
832
 
 
83
 
 
(83
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Taxes on net settled options exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(653
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(653
)


 Issuance of restricted common stock
 
 
1,129
 
 
113
 
 
(113
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Excess tax benefit on stock-based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
172
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
172
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, November 30, 2010
 
 
64,131
 
 
6,415
 
 
104,364
 
 
(42,849
)
 
(3,057
)
 
64,873
 


 Net loss
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

—
 
 

(1,365
)
 

—
 
 

(1,365
)


 Stock-based compensation, net of withholding taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,278
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
1,278
 


 Stock repurchase
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(34
)
 
(34
)


 Issuance of restricted common stock
 
 
1,346
 
 
135
 
 
(135
)
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Excess tax benefit on stock-based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Balance, November 30, 2011
 
 
65,477
 
$
6,550
 
$
105,512
 
$
(44,214
)
$
(3,091
)
$
64,757
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 
F-4




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS         (in thousands)     



















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 
November 30, 2009 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(1,365
)
$
2,601
 
$
24,520
 


 Adjustment to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Depreciation and amortization
 
 
1,168
 
 
843
 
 
536
 


 Retail stores impairment
 
 
1,144
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Stock-based compensation
 
 
1,808
 
 
1,671
 
 
1,069
 


 Excess tax benefit on stock-based compensation
 
 
5
 
 
172
 
 
57
 


 Release of valuation allowance for deferred tax assets
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(20,291
)


 Provision for non-factored customer credits and doubtful accounts
 
 
(211
)
 
58
 
 
171
 


 Decrease in deferred taxes
 
 
97
 
 
2,295
 
 
—
 


 Decrease in valuation allowance of deferred taxes
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
992
 


 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts receivable
 
 
1,043
 
 
(701
)
 
(1,037
)


 Inventories
 
 
6,983
 
 
(7,358
)
 
(616
)


 Prepaid expenses and other assets
 
 
(8
)
 
(537
)
 
(497
)


 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
 
 
126
 
 
(3,217
)
 
4,962
 


 Due to/from related parties
 
 
(550
)
 
251
 
 
(161
)


 Deferred revenue
 
 
—
 
 
(615
)
 
615
 


 Deferred rent
 
 
366
 
 
388
 
 
279
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
 
 
10,606
 
 
(4,149
)
 
10,599
 


 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Purchases of property and equipment
 
 
(2,055
)
 
(3,402
)
 
(873
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(2,055
)
 
(3,402
)
 
(873
)


 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Payments on) proceeds from factor borrowing, net
 
 
(1,707
)
 
1,843
 
 
229
 


 Exercise of stock options
 
 
—
 
 
50
 
 
—
 


 Purchase of treasury stock
 
 
(34
)
 
(257
)
 
—
 


 Payment of taxes on restricted stock units
 
 
(530
)
 
(870
)
 
(225
)


 Payment of taxes on net settled options exercised
 
 
—
 
 
(653
)
 
—
 


 Exercise of warrants
 
 
—
 
 
653
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities
 
 
(2,271
)
 
766
 
 
4
 


 NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
 

6,280
 
 

(6,785
)
 

9,730
 


 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, at beginning of year
 
 

6,410
 
 

13,195
 
 

3,465
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, at end of year
 
$
12,690
 
$
6,410
 
$
13,195
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




  

   
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
F-5




 










Table of Contents 
 
 
    JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES         NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS     
 1. Business Description and Basis of Presentation  

        Our principal business activity involves the design, development and worldwide marketing of apparel products. Our primary current operating subsidiary is Joe's Jeans
Subsidiary Inc., or Joe's Jeans Subsidiary. All significant inter-company transactions have been eliminated. We operate in two primary business segments: Wholesale and Retail. Our Wholesale
segment is comprised of sales to retailers, specialty stores and distributors and includes revenue from licensing agreements and records expenses from marketing, sales, distribution and customer
service departments. Also, some international sales are made directly to wholesale customers who operate retail stores. Our Retail segment is comprised of sales to consumers through
full-price retail stores, outlet stores and through the www.joesjeans.com/shop internet site. We opened our first full price retail store in
October 2008 in Chicago, Illinois and currently operate five full price retail stores and 17 outlet stores in outlet centers around the country. Our Corporate and other is comprised of expenses of our
corporate operations, which include the executive, finance, legal, and human resources departments, design and production. Our fiscal year end is November 30. Each fiscal year, as presented, is
52 weeks. 
        We,
along with our Joe's Subsidiary, JD Holdings, Inc., or JD Holdings, and Joseph Dahan, the sole stockholder of JD Holdings, entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of
Merger on February 6, 2007, as amended on June 25, 2007, or the Merger Agreement. JD Holdings primary assets included all rights, title and interest in all intellectual property,
including the trademarks, related to the Joe's®, Joe's Jeans™ and JD brand and marks, or the Joe's Brand. JD Holdings was the successor to JD Design, the entity from whom we
licensed the Joe's Brand. The license agreement terminated automatically upon completion of the merger. We acquired JD Holdings in order to acquire the Joe's Brand which allowed us to expand our
product offerings and the brand in the marketplace, including opening branded retail stores and entering into licenses for additional product categories. 
        Under
the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, on October 25, 2007, we completed the merger. In connection with the merger, Joe's Subsidiary
merged with and into JD Holdings, with Joe's Subsidiary as the surviving entity. In addition, we issued 14,000,000 shares of our common stock, made a cash payment of $300,000 to JD Holdings in
exchange for all of its outstanding shares and incurred $269,000 of other costs related to the merger. As a result of the merger, we now own all outstanding stock of JD Holdings and all rights, title
and interest in the Joe's Brand. Upon completion of the merger, on October 25, 2007, Mr. Dahan became one of our officers, directors and greater than 10 percent stockholder and
the Employment Agreement and Investor Rights Agreement became effective. 
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
 Use of Estimates  
        The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
 Revenue Recognition  
        Wholesale revenues are recorded on the accrual basis of accounting when title transfers to the customer, which is typically at the
shipping point. We record estimated reductions to revenue for 
F-6



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
customer
programs, including co-op advertising, other advertising programs or allowances, based upon a percentage of sales. We also allow for returns based upon pre-approval or
in the case of damaged goods. Such returns are estimated based on historical experience and an allowance is provided at the time of sale. 
        Retail
store revenue is recognized net of estimated returns at the time of sale to consumers. E-commerce sales of products ordered through our retail internet site known as
www.joesjeans.com are recognized upon estimated delivery and receipt of the shipment by the customers. E-commerce revenue is also reduced by an estimate of returns. Retail store revenue
and E-commerce revenue exclude sales taxes. Revenue from licensing arrangements are recognized when earned in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreements, generally based upon
the higher of (a) contractually guaranteed minimum royalty levels; and (b) estimates of sales and royalty data received from our licensees. Payments received in consideration of the
grant of a license or advanced royalty payments are recognized ratably as revenue over the term of the license agreement and are reflected under the caption of "Deferred Licensing Revenue" on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The revenue recognized ratably over the term of the license agreement will not exceed royalty payments received. The unrecognized portion of the upfront payments are
included in deferred royalties and accrued expenses depending on the long or short term nature of the payments to be recognized. There were no advanced payments under our licensing agreements during
our fiscal year ended November 30, 2011 and 2010. 
 Accounts Receivable, Due To Factor and Allowance for Customer Credits and Doubtful Allowances  
        We evaluate our ability to collect on accounts receivable and charge-backs (disputes from the customer) based upon a combination of
factors. Whether a receivable is past due is based on how recently payments have been received and in certain circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer's inability to meet its financial
obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial
downgrading of credit sources). A specific reserve for bad debts is taken against amounts due to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount reasonably expected to be collected. Amounts are
charged off against the reserve once it is established that amounts are not likely to be collected. We recognize reserves for charge-backs based on our historical collection experience. See
"Note 3—Accounts Receivable, Inventory Advances and Due to Factor" for further discussion. 
 Inventory  
        Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market with cost determined by the first-in, first-out method.
Inventory consists of finished goods, work-in-process and raw materials. We continually evaluate our inventories by assessing slow moving current product. Market value of
non-current inventory is estimated based on historical sales trends for this category of inventory for individual product lines, the impact of market trends, an evaluation of economic
conditions and the value of current orders relating to future sales of this type of inventory. Inventory reserves establish a new cost basis for inventory. Such reserves are not reversed until the
related inventory is sold or otherwise disposed. Costs capitalized in inventory include the purchase price of raw materials, contract labor and finished goods, plus in-bound transportation
costs and import fees and duties. During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we wrote down certain finished goods inventory by $1,620,000, representing the lower of cost or market adjustment. 
F-7



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
 Costs of Goods Sold  
        Costs of goods sold include product, freight in, freight out, inventory reserves, inventory markdowns and other various charges. 
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  
        Selling, general and administrative expenses include salaries and benefits, travel and entertainment, professional fees, advertising,
marketing, sample expenses, stock based compensation expenses, facilities, fulfillment and distribution costs and compensation payments made in connection with the earn-out consideration. 
 Earnings Per Share  
        Basic earnings per share, or EPS, is computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted
EPS is computed using the weighted average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period except for periods of net loss for which no common share equivalents are
included because their effect would be anti-dilutive. Dilutive common equivalent shares consist of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options, restricted stock and restricted
stock units using the treasury stock method. 
 Advertising Costs  
        Advertising costs are charged to expense as incurred, or, in the case of media ads, upon first airing. Brochures and catalogues are
capitalized and amortized over their expected period of future benefits, which is typically twelve months or less. 
        Advertising
and tradeshow expenses included in selling, general and administrative expenses were approximately $4,025,000, $2,368,000 and $2,462,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. 
 Financial Instruments  
        The fair values of our financial instruments (which consist of cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, due to factor and notes
payable) do not differ materially from
their recorded amounts because of the relatively short period of time between origination of the instruments and their expected realization. We do not hold or have any obligations under financial
instruments that possess off-balance sheet credit or market risk. 
 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Intangibles  
        We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill annually or whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review other than on an annual basis include the
following:


•A significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results;  
•A significant change in the manner of the use of the acquired asset or the strategy for the overall business; or 

F-8



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 


•A significant negative industry or economic trend. 

        When
we determine that the carrying value of long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the aforementioned factors, impairment is
measured based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by management. These cash flows are calculated by netting future estimated sales against associated
merchandise costs and other related expenses such as payroll, occupancy and marketing. 
        During
the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded store impairment charges of $1,144,000 related to two of our full price retail stores. Based on the operating performance of these
stores, we believed that we could not recover the carrying value of property and equipment located at these stores. 
        In
fiscal 2007, we acquired through merger JD Holdings, which included all of the goodwill and intangible assets goodwill related to the Joe's®, Joe's Jeans™ and
JD® logo and marks. To date, we have not had to recognize any impairment related to the goodwill or intangible assets of our Joe's® brand. We have assigned an indefinite life
to these intangible assets and therefore, no amortization expenses are expected to be recognized. However, we test the assets for impairment annually in accordance with our critical accounting
policies. 
        Under
the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, we are required to evaluate goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets at
least annually using a two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit and compare this value to its carrying value. If the fair value exceeds the
carrying value, no further work is required and no impairment loss would be recognized. The second step is performed if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the assets. The implied fair value
of the reporting unit's goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets must be determined and compared to the carrying value of the goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets. 
        Our
annual impairment testing date is September 30 of each year. For fiscal 2011 and 2010, we determined that there was no impairment of our goodwill or indefinite lived
intangible assets. 
 Cash Equivalents  
        We consider all highly liquid investments that are both readily convertible into known amounts of cash and mature within 90 days
from their date of purchase to be cash equivalents. 
 Concentration of Credit Risk  
        Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash, cash
equivalents, accounts receivable and amounts due from factor. We maintain cash and cash equivalents with various financial institutions. The policy is designed to limit exposure to any one
institution. We perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit rating of those financial institutions that are considered in our investment strategy. 
        We
do not require collateral for trade accounts receivable. However, we sell a portion of our accounts receivable to CIT Commercial Services, Inc., or CIT, on a
non-recourse basis. In that instance, we are no longer at risk if the customer fails to pay. However, for accounts receivable that are not sold to CIT or sold on a recourse basis, we
continue to be at risk if these customers fail to pay. We provide an allowance for estimated losses to be incurred in the collection of accounts receivable based upon the 
F-9



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
aging
of outstanding balances and other account monitoring analysis. The net carrying value approximates the fair value for these assets. Such losses have historically been within management's
expectations. Uncollectible accounts are written off once collection efforts are deemed by management to have been exhausted. 
        For
fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, sales to customers or customer groups representing greater than 10 percent of net sales are as follows: 



















 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Nordstrom, Inc. 
 
 
25.5
%
 
21.7
%
 
20.2
%


 Macy's Inc. 
 
 
*
 
 
11.0
%
 
14.9
%


 Anthropologie
 
 
*
 
 
*
 
 
11.4
%








*Less
than 10%. 

        Our
10 largest customers and customer groups accounted for approximately 62 percent of our net sales during fiscal 2011. In addition, our international sales were $4,568,000,
$6,233,000 and $5,719,000 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 Stock-Based Compensation  
        We measure the cost of all employee stock-based compensation awards based on the grant date fair value of those awards and record that
cost as compensation expense over the period during which the employee is required to perform service in exchange for the award (generally over the vesting period of the award). An entity may elect
either an accelerated recognition method or a straight-line recognition method for awards subject to graded vesting based on a service condition, regardless of how the fair value of the
award is measured. For all stock based compensation awards that contain graded vesting based on service conditions, we have elected to apply a straight-line recognition method to account
for these awards. 
 Property and Equipment  
        Property and equipment are stated at the lower of cost or fair value in the case of impaired assets. Depreciation is computed on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lives of the respective leases or the estimated service lives of the
improvements, whichever is shorter. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred. Upon sale or retirement, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation or amortization is removed
from the accounts, and any related gain or loss is included in the determination of net income. 
 Income Taxes  
        We use the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under the liability method, deferred taxes are determined based on the
temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates. 
        Valuation
allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The likelihood of a material change in our expected realization
of these assets 
F-10



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued) 
depends
on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. Our ability to generate enough taxable income to utilize our deferred tax assets depends on many factors, among which is our
ability to deduct tax loss carry-forwards against future taxable income, the effectiveness of tax planning strategies and reversing deferred tax liabilities. 
        We
recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based
upon the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based upon the largest benefit that has a greater than
50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties that would be assessed in relation to the settlement value of unrecognized
tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. 
 Reclassifications  
        Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year consolidated financial statements to conform to the current year presentation. 
 Other Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards  
        In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued revised guidance for the accounting of transfers of financial
assets. This guidance is intended to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness, and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial statements about a
transfer of financial assets; the effects of a transfer on its financial position, financial performance, and cash flows; and a transferor's continuing involvement, if any, in transferred financial
assets. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. 
        In
June 2009, the FASB issued revised guidance for the accounting of variable interest entities, which replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards approach with a qualitative
approach that focuses on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most
significantly impact the entity's economic performance. This accounting guidance also requires an ongoing reassessment of whether an entity is the primary beneficiary and requires additional
disclosures about an enterprise's involvement in variable interest entities. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or
liquidity. 
        In
June 2011, the FASB issued guidance regarding the presentation of comprehensive income. The new standard requires the presentation of comprehensive income, the components of net
income and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The new standard also requires
presentation of adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive
income are presented. The updated guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after
December 15, 2011. The adoption of this standard will only impact the presentation of our consolidated financial statements and will have no impact on the reported results. 
F-11




 







 
Table of Contents 

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)  

        In May 2011, the FASB issued additional guidance on fair value measurements that clarifies the application of existing guidance and disclosure requirements, changes certain fair value
measurement principles and requires additional disclosures about fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for fiscal years, and
interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. We do not believe that adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our financial position and results
of operations. 
        In
December 2010, the FASB issued an update to modify Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an
entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill
impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The qualitative factors are consistent with the existing
guidance, which requires that goodwill of a reporting unit be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair
value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. This accounting guidance will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and interim
periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is not permitted. We do not believe that adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. 
 3. Accounts Receivable, Inventory Advances and Due to Factor  

        Historically, our primary method to obtain the cash necessary for operating needs has been through the sale of accounts receivable pursuant to factoring agreements and advances under
inventory security agreements with our factor, CIT. 
        As
a result of these agreements, amounts due to factor consist of the following (in thousands): 
















 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 


 Non-recourse receivables assigned to factor
 
$
14,892
 
$
13,571
 


 Client recourse receivables
 
 
108
 
 
146
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total receivables assigned to factor
 
 
15,000
 
 
13,717
 


 Allowance for customer credits
 
 

(2,498
)
 

(2,967
)


 Net loan balance from factored accounts receivable
 
 
(10,857
)
 
(10,013
)


 Net loan balance from inventory advances
 
 
(4,910
)
 
(5,709
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Due to factor
 
$
(3,265
)
$
(4,972
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Non-factored accounts receivable
 
$
2,220
 
$
3,263
 


 Allowance for customer credits
 
 
(358
)
$
(440
)


 Allowance for doubtful accounts
 
 
(320
)
 
(449
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Accounts receivable, net of allowance
 
$
1,542
 
$
2,374
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        Of
the total amount of receivables sold by us as of November 30, 2011 and November 30, 2010, we hold the risk of payment of $108,000 and $146,000, respectively, in the
event of non-payment by the customers. 
F-12



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 3. Accounts Receivable, Inventory Advances and Due to Factor (Continued) 
        Our
Joe's Jeans Subsidiary is party to accounts receivable factoring agreement and an inventory security agreement with CIT. The accounts receivable agreement give us the ability to
obtain cash by selling to CIT certain of its accounts receivable and the inventory security agreement give us the ability to obtain advances for up to 50 percent of the value of certain
eligible inventory. The accounts receivables are sold for up to 85 percent of the face amount on either a recourse or non-recourse basis depending on the creditworthiness of the
customer. CIT currently permits us to sell our accounts receivables at the maximum level of 85 percent and allows advances of up to $6,000,000 for eligible inventory. CIT has the ability, in
its discretion at any time or from time to time, to adjust or revise any limits on the amount of loans or advances made to us pursuant to both of these agreements and to impose surcharges on our rates
for certain of our customers. In addition, cross guarantees were executed by and among us and all of our parent and subsidiaries to guarantee each entity's obligations. 
        As
of November 30, 2011, Joe's cash availability with CIT was approximately $1,134,000. This amount fluctuates on a daily basis based upon invoicing and collection related
activity by CIT for the receivables sold. In connection with the agreements with CIT, certain assets are pledged to CIT, including all of the inventory, merchandise and/or goods, including raw
materials through finished goods and receivables. However, our trademarks are not encumbered. 
        In
May 2010, the parties amended the accounts receivable agreement to provide for a change in the factoring fees, an extension of the agreement and additional termination rights. The
accounts receivable agreement may be terminated by CIT upon 60 days' written notice or immediately upon the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the agreement. The accounts
receivable agreement may be terminated by us upon 60 days' written notice prior to June 30, 2012, or earlier provided that the
minimum factoring fees have been paid for the respective period or CIT fails to fund us for five consecutive days. The inventory agreement may be terminated once all obligations are paid under both
agreements or if an event of default occurs as defined in the agreement. 
        From
June 1 to June 30, 2010, we paid to CIT a factoring rate of 0.6 percent to factor accounts which CIT bore the credit risk, subject to discretionary surcharges,
and 0.4 percent for accounts which Joe's bore the credit risk. The interest rate associated with borrowings under the inventory lines and factoring facility is 0.25 percent plus the
Chase prime rate. Beginning July 1, 2010, the factoring rate changed to 0.55 percent for accounts which CIT bears the credit risk, subject to discretionary surcharges, up to $40,000,000
of invoices factored, 0.50 percent over $40,000,000 of invoices factored and 0.35 percent for accounts which we bear the credit risk. The interest rate associated with borrowings under
the inventory lines and factoring facility is 0.25 percent plus the Chase prime rate. As of November 30, 2011, the Chase prime rate was 3.25 percent. 
        In
the event we need additional funds, we have also established a letter of credit facility with CIT to allow us to open letters of credit for a fee of 0.25 percent of the letter
of credit face value with international and domestic suppliers, subject to availability. At November 30, 2011, we had four letters of credit outstanding in the aggregate amount of $650,000. 
F-13



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 4. Inventories  

        Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market with cost determined by the first-in, first-out method. Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands): 
















 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 


 Finished goods
 
$
13,512
 
$
23,347
 


 Finished goods consigned to others
 
 
238
 
 
376
 


 Work in progress
 
 
2,052
 
 
1,508
 


 Raw materials
 
 
8,574
 
 
6,081
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
24,376
 
 
31,312
 


 Less allowance for obsolescence and slow moving items
 
 
(1,114
)
 
(1,067
)


 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
23,262
 
$
30,245
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




        We
recorded charges to our inventory reserve allowance of $128,000, $0 and $28,000 in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
 5. Property and Equipment  

        Property and equipment consisted of the following (in thousands): 


















 
 
Useful lives (years) 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 


 Computer and equipment
 
3 - 7
 
$
1,753
 
$
1,600
 


 Furniture and fixtures
 
3 - 7
 
 
2,453
 
 
1,930
 


 Leasehold improvements, primarily retail
 
5 - 10
 
 
4,001
 
 
4,437
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
 
8,207
 
 
7,967
 


 Less accumulated depreciation
 
 
 
 
(2,743
)
 
(2,246
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net property and equipment
 
 
 
$
5,464
 
$
5,721
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Depreciation
expenses aggregated $1,168,000, $843,000 and $536,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
F-14



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 6. Income Taxes  

        The (benefit) provision for income taxes is as follows: 



















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
$
24
 
$
255
 
$
1,828
 


 State
 
 
195
 
 
231
 
 
955
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
219
 
 
486
 
 
2,783
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Federal
 
 
260
 
 
2,158
 
 
1,506
 


 State
 
 
(163
)
 
312
 
 
(383
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
97
 
 
2,470
 
 
1,123
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(20,291
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total
 
$
316
 
$
2,956
 
$
(16,385
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        Net
deferred tax assets result from the following temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities: 
















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 


 Deferred tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Allowance for customer credits and doubtful accounts
 
$
1,259
 
$
1,542
 


 Inventory valuation
 
 
717
 
 
477
 


 Net benefit of net operating loss carryforwards
 
 
98
 
 
93
 


 Stock compensation expense
 
 
19
 
 
21
 


 Inventory capitalization
 
 
390
 
 
913
 


 Other
 
 
161
 
 
179
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total current deferred taxes
 
$
2,644
 
$
3,225
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncurrent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Property and equipment basis difference
 
$
(6
)
$
(644
)


 Benefit of net operating loss carryforwards
 
 
13,599
 
 
14,015
 


 Stock compensation expense
 
 
113
 
 
40
 


 Deferred Rent
 
 
509
 
 
367
 


 Other
 
 
(38
)
 
1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total noncurrent deferred tax assets
 
 
14,177
 
 
13,779
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Deferred tax liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Noncurrent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Long lived intangible asset
 
 
9,514
 
 
9,600
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total noncurrent deferred tax liabilities
 
 
9,514
 
 
9,600
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net noncurrent deferred tax assets
 
$
4,663
 
$
4,179
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




F-15




 







 
Table of Contents 

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 6. Income Taxes (Continued)  

        A valuation allowance is required when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Annually, management reassesses the need for a
valuation allowance. Realization of deferred income tax assets is dependent upon taxable income in prior carryback years, estimates of future taxable income, tax planning strategies and reversals of
existing taxable temporary differences. Based on our assessment of these items for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we determined that the deferred tax assets were more likely than not to be realized.
Fiscal 2009 includes the reversal of a previously established valuation allowance of $20,291,000. 
        The
reconciliation of the effective income tax rate to the federal statutory rate for the years ended is as follows: 



















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Computed tax provision (benefit) at the statutory rate
 
 
34.0
%
 
35.0
%
 
35.0
%


 State income tax
 
 
 (2.0
)%
 
6.4
%
 
6.9
%


 Contingent consideration payments
 
 
 (57.0
)%
 
11.0
%
 
7.0
%


 Change in valuation allowance
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 (249.5
)%


 Effect of uncertain tax positions
 
 
 (1.5
)%
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Sec 162 (m) limitation
 
 
 (3.2
)%
 
 
 
 
—
 


 Other adjustments
 
 
 (0.4
)%
 
0.8
%
 
 (0.8
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Effective tax rate
 
 
 (30.1
)%
 
53.2
%
 
 (201.4
)%


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        We
are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax in multiple state jurisdictions. To the extent allowed by law, the tax authorities may have the right to examine prior
periods where net operating losses were generated and carried forward, and make adjustments up to the amount of the net operating loss carryforward amount. We are no longer subject to U.S. federal and
California income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to fiscal 2008. Our federal income tax return for fiscal 2009 is currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service, or
IRS. We do not expect that this examination will have a material effect on our financial statements or results of operations upon conclusion of examination. There are currently no other examinations
pending with any other jurisdictions. 
        We
had net operating loss carryforwards of $38,956,000 at the end of fiscal 2011 for federal tax purposes that will expire from fiscal 2018 through fiscal 2027. We also had $25,489,000
of net operating loss carryforwards available for California that will expire from fiscal 2017 through fiscal 2020. 
        Certain
limitations may be placed on net operating loss carryforwards as a result of "changes in control" as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event a
change in control occurs, it will have the effect of limiting the annual usage of the carryforwards in future years. Additional changes in control in future periods could result in further limitations
of our ability to offset taxable income. Management believes that certain changes in control have occurred which resulted in limitations on its net operating loss carryforwards, however, management
has determined that these limitations will not impact the ultimate utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards. 
        As
of November 30, 2011 and 2010, we provided a liability of $166,000 and $101,000, respectively, for unrecognized tax benefits related to various federal and state income tax
matters. Included in the balance sheet at November 30, 2011 is $139,000, net of tax related benefits, that impact the effective 
F-16



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 6. Income Taxes (Continued) 
income
tax rate if recognized. The following presents a rollforward of its unrecognized tax benefits (in thousands): 













 Balance at December 1, 2009
 
$
89
 


 Decrease for tax positions taken during the prior period
 
 
(89
)


 Increase for tax positions taken during the current period
 
 
101
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance at November 30, 2010
 
 
101
 


 Increase for tax positions taken during the prior period
 
 
8
 


 Increase for tax positions taken during the current period
 
 
57
 


 
 
 
 


 Balance at November 30, 2011
 
$
166
 


 
 
 
 




        We
recognize accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes in its statements of operations. For fiscal 2011 and 2010, we had
approximately $16,000 and $0, respectively, for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at November 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
        We
do not expect any unrecognized tax benefit to reverse in fiscal 2012. However, in fiscal 2012, we expect $86,000 of the unrecognized tax benefits to be reclassified from an uncertain
tax position liability to an income tax payable liability as a result of the ongoing Internal Revenue Service examination for 2009. We do not expect this reclassification to have an impact on the
effective income tax rate. 
 7. Stockholders' Equity  
 Warrants  
        Historically, we have issued warrants in conjunction with various private placements of our common stock, and debt to equity
conversions. As of November 30, 2011, all outstanding common stock warrants have been exercised or have expired. During fiscal 2010, 605,000 warrants were exercised and no warrants expired
unexercised. During fiscal 2009, 187,500 warrants expired unexercised. 
 Stock Incentive Plans  
        In September 2000, we adopted the 2000 Director Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2000 Director Plan, under which nonqualified stock options
were granted to members of our Board of Directors in lieu of cash director fees. After the adoption of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan in June 2004, we no longer granted options pursuant to the 2000
Director Plan; however, the plan remains in effect for awards outstanding as of the adoption of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. As of November 30, 2011, options to purchase up to 93,290 shares
of common stock remained outstanding under the 2000 Director Plan. 
        On
June 3, 2004, we adopted the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2004 Incentive Plan, and in October 2011, we adopted an Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan, or the
Restated Plan, to update it with respect to certain provisions and changes in the tax code since its original adoption. Under the
Restated Plan, the number of shares authorized for issuance is 6,825,000 shares of common stock. After the adoption of the Restated Plan in October 2011, we will no longer grant awards pursuant to the
2004 Incentive Plan; however, it remains in effect for awards outstanding as of the adoption of the Restated Plan. Under the Restated Plan, grants may be made to employees, officers, 
F-17



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 7. Stockholders' Equity (Continued) 
directors
and consultants under a variety of awards based upon underlying equity, including, but not limited to, stock options, restricted common stock, restricted stock units or performance shares.
The Restated Plan limits the number of shares that can be awarded to any employee in one year to 1,250,000. The exercise price for incentive options may not be less than the fair market value of our
common stock on the date of grant and the exercise period may not exceed ten years. Vesting periods, terms and types of awards are determined by the Board of Directors and/or our Compensation and
Stock Option Committee, or Compensation Committee. The Restated Plan includes a provision for the acceleration of vesting of all awards upon a change of control as well as a provision that allows
forfeited or unexercised awards that have expired to be available again for future issuance. Since fiscal 2008, we have issued both restricted common stock and restricted common stock units, or RSUs,
to our officers, directors and employees pursuant to our various plans. The RSUs represent the right to receive one share of common stock for each unit on the vesting date provided that the employee
continues to be employed by us. On the vesting date of the RSUs, we expect to issue the shares of common stock to each participant upon vesting and expect to withhold an equivalent number of shares at
fair market value on the vesting date to fulfill tax withholding obligations. Any RSUs withheld or forfeited will be shares available for issuance in accordance with the terms of the Restated Plan. 
        The
shares of common stock issued upon exercise of a previously granted stock option or a grant of restricted common stock or RSUs are considered new issuances from shares reserved for
issuance in connection with the adoption of the various plans. We require that the option holder provide a written notice of exercise in accordance with the option agreement and plan to the stock plan
administrator and full payment for the shares be made prior to issuance. All issuances are made under the terms and conditions set forth in the applicable plan. As of November 30, 2011,
6,825,000 shares remained available for issuance under the Restated Plan. 
        For
all stock compensation awards that contain graded vesting with time-based service conditions, we have elected to apply a straight-line recognition method to
account for all of these awards. For existing grants that were not fully vested at November 30, 2011, there was a total of $1,808,000 of stock based compensation expense recognized during
fiscal 2011. 
        The
following summarizes option grants, restricted common stock and RSUs issued to members of our Board of Directors for the fiscal years 2002 through fiscal 2011 (in actual amounts) for
service as a member: 
















Granted as of:



 
November 30, 2011
Number of options 
 
Exercise price 
 


 2002
 
 
40,000
 
$
1.00
 


 2002
 
 
31,496
 
$
1.27
 


 2003
 
 
30,768
 
$
1.30
 


 2004
 
 
320,000
 
$
1.58
 


 2005
 
 
300,000
 
$
5.91
 


 2006
 
 
450,000
 
$
1.02
 




F-18



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 7. Stockholders' Equity (Continued) 













 
 
Number of restricted
shares isssued 
 


 2007
 
 
320,000
 


 2008
 
 
473,455
 


 2009
 
 
371,436
 


 2010
 
 
131,828
 


 2011
 
 
—
 




        Stock
option activity in the aggregate for the periods indicated are as follows (in actual amounts): 






















 
 
Options 
 
Weighted
average
exercise price 
 
Weighted average
remaining contractual
Life (Years) 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2010
 
 
868,290
 
$
3.73
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited/expired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding and exercisable at November 30, 2011
 
 
868,290
 
$
3.73
 
 
3.1
 
$
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average per option fair value of options granted during the year
 
 
 
 
 
N/A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 






















 
 
Options 
 
Weighted
average
exercise price 
 
Weighted average
remaining contractual
Life (Years) 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2009
 
 
3,226,046
 
$
1.78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
(2,357,756
)
 
1.08
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited/expired
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding and exercisable at November 30, 2010
 
 
868,290
 
$
3.73
 
 
4.1
 
$
97,251
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average per option fair value of options granted during the year
 
 
 
 
 
N/A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 






















 
 
Options 
 
Weighted
Average
Exercise Price 
 
Weighted Average
Remaining Contractual
Life (Years) 
 
Aggregate
Intrinsic
Value 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2008
 
 
3,313,146
 
$
1.76
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Forfeited/expired
 
 
(87,100
)
 
1.02
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding and exercisable at November 30, 2009
 
 
3,226,046
 
$
1.78
 
 
4.7
 
$
687,786
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average per option fair value of options granted during the year
 
 
 
 
 
N/A
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal years ended November 30, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0, $2,720,000 and $0, respectively. 
F-19



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 7. Stockholders' Equity (Continued) 
        Exercise
prices for options outstanding and exercisable as of November 30, 2011 are as follows: 
















 
 
Options Outstanding and Exercisable 
 


Exercise Price



 
Number of shares 
 
Weighted-Average
Remaining
Contractual Life 
 


 $1.00 - $1.02
 
 
140,000
 
 
3.2
 


 $1.27 - $1.30
 
 
53,290
 
 
1.2
 


 $1.58 - $1.63
 
 
225,000
 
 
2.7
 


 $5.91
 
 
450,000
 
 
3.5
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
868,290
 
 
3.1
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        The
following table summarizes stock option activity by plan. 



















 
 
Total Number
of Shares 
 
2004 Incentive
Plan 
 
2000 Director
Plan 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2010
 
 
868,290
 
 
775,000
 
 
93,290
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Forfeited / Cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding and exercisable at November 30, 2011
 
 
868,290
 
 
775,000
 
 
93,290
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2009
 
 
3,226,046
 
 
3,022,500
 
 
203,546
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Exercised
 
 
(2,357,756
)
 
(2,247,500
)
 
(110,256
)


 Forfeited / Cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding and exercisable at November 30, 2010
 
 
868,290
 
 
775,000
 
 
93,290
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2008
 
 
3,313,146
 
 
3,109,600
 
 
203,546
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Exercised
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Forfeited / Cancelled
 
 
(87,100
)
 
(87,100
)
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding and exercisable at November 30, 2009
 
 
3,226,046
 
 
3,022,500
 
 
203,546
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




F-20




 







 
Table of Contents 

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 7. Stockholders' Equity (Continued)  

        A summary of the status of restricted common stock and RSUs as of November 30, 2010, and changes during the year ended November 30, 2011, are presented below: 

























 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-Average
Grant-Date
Fair Value 
 


 
 
Restricted
Shares 
 
Restricted
Stock Units 
 
Total 
 
Restricted
Shares 
 
Restricted
Stock Units 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2010
 
 
408,857
 
 
3,126,967
 
 
3,535,824
 
$
0.86
 
$
0.90
 


 Granted
 
 
260,182
 
 
959,331
 
 
1,219,513
 
 
1.65
 
 
1.15
 


 Issued
 
 
(204,429
)
 
(1,085,780
)
 
(1,290,209
)
 
0.86
 
 
0.93
 


 Cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
(457,790
)
 
(457,790
)
 
—
 
 
0.91
 


 Forfeited
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2011
 
 
464,610
 
 
2,542,728
 
 
3,007,338
 
$
1.30
 
$
0.98
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2009
 
 
691,903
 
 
4,773,979
 
 
5,465,882
 
$
0.94
 
$
0.84
 


 Granted
 
 
—
 
 
131,828
 
 
131,828
 
 
—
 
 
1.77
 


 Vested
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 


 Issued
 
 
(283,046
)
 
(1,128,318
)
 
(1,411,364
)
 
1.06
 
 
0.77
 


 Cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
(478,517
)
 
(478,517
)
 
—
 
 
0.78
 


 Forfeited
 
 
—
 
 
(172,005
)
 
(172,005
)
 
—
 
 
1.01
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2010
 
 
408,857
 
 
3,126,967
 
 
3,535,824
 
$
0.86
 
$
0.90
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2008
 
 
157,233
 
 
2,503,526
 
 
2,660,759
 
$
1.59
 
$
0.75
 


 Granted
 
 
613,286
 
 
3,461,547
 
 
4,074,833
 
 
0.86
 
 
0.84
 


 Vested
 
 
(78,616
)
 
—
 
 
(78,616
)
 
1.59
 
 
—
 


 Issued
 
 
—
 
 
(934,887
)
 
(934,887
)
 
—
 
 
0.66
 


 Cancelled
 
 
—
 
 
(236,999
)
 
(236,999
)
 
—
 
 
0.68
 


 Forfeited
 
 
—
 
 
(19,208
)
 
(19,208
)
 
—
 
 
0.70
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Outstanding at November 30, 2009
 
 
691,903
 
 
4,773,979
 
 
5,465,882
 
$
0.94
 
$
0.84
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        As
of November 30, 2011, there was $2,456,000 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the 2004 Incentive
Plan. In fiscal 2011, there were no options granted, 959,331 RSUs and 260,182 shares of restricted stock granted. In fiscal 2011, we issued 1,085,780 shares of our common stock to holders of RSUs,
204,429 shares of restricted stock and withheld or cancelled 457,790 RSUs. 
 Earnings Per Share  
        Earnings per share are computed using weighted average common shares and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding. Potentially
dilutive securities consist of outstanding options and warrants. 
F-21



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 7. Stockholders' Equity (Continued) 
A
reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share is as follows: 



















 
 
Year Ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands, except per share data)
 


 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 
November 30, 2009 
 


 Basic earnings per share computation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Numerator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(1,365
)
$
2,601
 
$
24,520
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Denominator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average common shares outstanding
 
 
64,001
 
 
62,362
 
 
60,053
 


 (Loss) income per common share—basic
 
$

(0.02
)
$

0.04
 
$

0.41
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Diluted earnings per share computation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Numerator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
(1,365
)
$
2,601
 
$
24,520
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Denominator:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Weighted average common shares outstanding
 
 
64,001
 
 
62,362
 
 
60,053
 


 Effect of dilutive securities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Restricted shares, RSU's, options and warrants
 
 
—
 
 
2,143
 
 
1,068
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Dilutive potential common shares
 
 
64,001
 
 
64,505
 
 
61,121
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 (Loss) income per common share—dilutive
 
$
(0.02
)
$
0.04
 
$
0.40
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




        For
fiscal 2011, currently exercisable options, unvested restricted shares and unvested RSUs in the aggregate of 3,875,628 have been excluded from the calculation of the diluted loss per
share as their effect would have been anti-dilutive. For fiscal 2010 and 2009, currently exercisable options and warrants in the aggregate of 450,000, and 3,640,982, respectively, have
been excluded from the calculation of diluted income per share because the exercise prices of such options and warrants were out-of-the-money. 
 Shares Reserved for Future Issuance  
        As of November 30, 2011, shares reserved for future issuance include (i) 868,290 shares of common stock issuable upon the
exercise of stock options granted under the incentive plans; (ii) 2,542,728 shares of common stock issuable upon the vesting of RSUs; and (iii) an aggregate of 6,825,000 shares of common
stock available for future issuance under the Restated Plan as of November 30, 2011. 
F-22



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 8. Commitments and Contingencies  
 Operating Lease Obligations and Other Obligations Related to Operations  
        We lease certain equipment and office and retail space under separate lease arrangements. The leases generally contain renewal
provisions. Equipment and office rental expenses under such leases for the years ended November 30, 2011, November 30, 2010 and November 30, 2009, were approximately $4,217,000,
$2,755,000, and $1,408,000 , respectively. 
        In
January 2010, we moved our headquarters and principal executive offices to a facility under a month-to-month arrangement with a third party who provides its
product fulfillment, warehousing and distribution services. Under this arrangement commencing in January 2010, we paid a monthly fee of approximately $189,000 for allocated expenses associated with
its use of office and warehouse space including its product fulfillment, warehousing and distribution services. Expenses under this arrangement and previous arrangements similar to this one were
$2,748,000 and $2,668,000 for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
        We
lease retail store locations under operating lease agreements expiring on various dates through 2023 or 5 to 10 years from the rent commencement date. Some of these leases
require us to make periodic
payments for property taxes, utilities and common area operating expenses. Certain retail store leases provide for rents based upon the minimum annual rental amount and a percentage of annual sales
volume, generally ranging from 6% to 8%, when specific sales volumes are exceeded. Some leases include lease incentives, rent abatements and fixed rent escalations, which are amortized and recorded
over the initial lease term on a straight-line basis. 
        On
January 8, 2010, we entered into an agreement to provide us with warehouse storage and fulfillment services and corporate office space on a month to month basis. Under the
terms of the agreement, we paid on a per square foot basis for office and warehouse space along with an hourly billing rate for labor associated with the services provided by the landlord. The
agreement could be cancelled by either party upon 30 days' written notice or if no storage or other services were performed for a period of 180 days. The agreement contained other
customary terms and conditions related to the handling and storage of products, as well as the provision of services under the agreement. See below for further discussion regarding the termination of
this agreement. 
        On
November 22, 2010, we entered into a lease agreement to lease additional office and warehouse space at our current corporate offices that commenced on January 1, 2011,
or the Lease Agreement. In connection with the Lease Agreement, we lease approximately 89,000 square feet which serves as our corporate headquarters and distribution center. In connection with the
Lease Agreement, the previous agreement terminated and the landlord no longer provided certain fulfillment and distribution services for us. 
        We
lease the office and warehouse space until December 31, 2013 and have one option to extend for an additional three year period. We pay gross monthly rent in the amount of
$42,000. The Lease Agreement contains other customary terms and conditions related to the lease and condition of the premises, including a provision for a refundable security deposit in the amount of
$114,000. 
F-23



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 8. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 
        As
of November 30, 2011, the future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable retail operating leases with lease terms in excess of one year were as follows (in
thousands): 













 2012
 
$
4,200
 


 2013
 
 
4,502
 


 2014
 
 
4,783
 


 2015
 
 
4,936
 


 2016
 
 
4,939
 


 Thereafter
 
 
19,079
 


 
 
 
 


 
 
$
42,439
 


 
 
 
 




 Advertising Commitments  
        From time to time, we enter into various agreements for short term billboard, taxi cab top, bus, other advertising spaces in various
locations in and around New York and Los Angeles and for print advertising. However, we do not have any commitment to pay a minimum amount or any long term commitments for such advertising. 
 Letters of Credit  
        We had a contingent liability in the aggregate amount of $650,000 for four open letters of credit as of November 30, 2011. 
 Employment Agreement  
        After completion of the merger, we entered into an employment agreement for Mr. Dahan to serve as Creative Director for the
Joe's Brand. 
        The
initial term of employment is five years with automatic renewals for successive one year periods thereafter, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the agreement. Under the
employment agreement, Mr. Dahan is entitled to an annual salary of $300,000 and other discretionary benefits that the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors may deem appropriate in
its sole and absolute discretion. 
        Under
the terms of the employment agreement, we may terminate Mr. Dahan for cause or if he becomes disabled, as defined in the agreement. Should we terminate Mr. Dahan's
employment for cause or disability, we would only be required to pay him through the date of termination. We may terminate Mr. Dahan's employment without cause at any time upon two weeks'
notice, provided that we pay to him the present value of the annual salary amounts otherwise due to him for the remainder of the initial term of employment or any renewal term. Mr. Dahan may
terminate his employment for good reason at any time with 30 days written notice. In the event that Mr. Dahan terminates his employment for good reason, then he will be entitled to the
present value of the annual salary amounts otherwise due to him for the remainder of the term of employment. Further, Mr. Dahan may terminate his employment for any reason upon ten business
days' notice and only be entitled to his salary as of the date of termination on a pro rata basis. 
F-24



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 8. Commitments and Contingencies (Continued) 
        The
employment agreement contains customary terms and conditions related to confidentiality of information, ownership by Joe's of all intellectual property, including future designs and
trademarks, alternative dispute resolution and Mr. Dahan's duties and responsibilities to us and the Joe's Brand as Creative Director. 
 Investor Rights Agreement  
        Upon the closing of the merger, we also entered into an investor rights agreement. Pursuant to the investor rights agreement, we agreed
to register for resale, on a periodic basis at the request of Mr. Dahan, the shares of common stock eligible for resale issued in connection with the merger. The shares of common stock issued
as merger consideration become eligible for resale beginning on the six month anniversary of the closing date of the merger at an initial rate of 1/6 of the shares issued and every six
months thereafter at the same rate until all the shares are fully released on the third anniversary of the closing date. We agreed to bear all expenses associated with registering these shares for
resale and granted to Mr. Dahan certain piggyback rights with respect to future registration statements filed by us. The investor rights agreement contains customary terms and conditions
related to registration procedures, trading suspensions and indemnification of the parties. On March 24, 2008, a registration statement on Form S-3 was declared effective for
the resale of up to 2,333,333 shares where the contractual restrictions on resale lapsed on April 25, 2008. Mr. Dahan has not requested the filing of any additional registration
statements. 
 Contingent Consideration Payments  
        As part of the consideration paid in connection with the merger and without regard to continued employment, Mr. Dahan is
entitled to a certain percentage of the gross profit earned by us in any applicable fiscal year until October 2017. Mr. Dahan is entitled to the following: (i) 11.33 percent of
the gross profit from $11,251,000 to $22,500,000; (ii) three percent of the gross profit from $22,501,000 to $31,500,000; (iii) two percent of the gross profit from $31,501,000 to
$40,500,000; (iv) one percent of the gross profit above $40,501,000. The payments may be paid in advance on a monthly basis based upon estimates of gross profits after the assumption has been
reached that the payments are likely to be paid. At the end of each quarter, any overpayments are offset against future payments and any significant underpayments are made. No payments are made if the
gross profit is less than $11,250,000. "Gross Profit" is defined as net sales of the Joe's® brand less cost of goods sold. 
 Litigation  
        We are involved from time to time in routine legal matters incidental to our business. In the opinion of our management, resolution of
such matters will not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. 
F-25



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 9. Segment Reporting and Operations by Geographic Areas  
 Segment Reporting  
        The following table contains summarized financial information concerning our reportable segments: 



















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Net sales:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
76,901
 
$
85,141
 
$
75,238
 


 Retail
 
 
18,519
 
 
13,035
 
 
4,878
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
95,420
 
$
98,176
 
$
80,116
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Gross Profit:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
31,097
 
$
38,324
 
$
36,605
 


 Retail
 
 
12,267
 
 
7,889
 
 
3,180
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
43,364
 
$
46,213
 
$
39,785
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Operating (loss)income:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
18,000
 
$
23,887
 
$
24,748
 


 Retail
 
 
(728
)
 
(42
)
 
(668
)


 Corporate and other
 
 
(17,837
)
 
(17,824
)
 
(15,557
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
(565
)
$
6,021
 
$
8,523
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Capital expenditures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
302
 
$
17
 
$
17
 


 Retail
 
 
1,656
 
 
3,275
 
 
844
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
97
 
 
110
 
 
12
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
2,055
 
$
3,402
 
$
873
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Wholesale
 
$
44,399
 
$
45,594
 
$
47,607
 


 Retail
 
 
7,594
 
 
7,980
 
 
3,732
 


 Corporate and other
 
 
28,169
 
 
27,895
 
 
28,285
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
$
80,162
 
$
81,469
 
$
79,624
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 Operations by Geographic Areas  
        Currently, we do not have any material reportable operations outside of the United States. 
F-26




 










Table of Contents 

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  
 10. Related Party and Other Transactions  

        As of November 30, 2011 and November 30, 2010, our related party balance consisted of amounts due to and due from certain related parties, as further described below, as
follows: 
















 
 
November 30, 2011 
 
November 30, 2010 
 


 Due from related parties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Everblue LLC
 
$
529
 
$
—
 


 Kids Jeans LLC
 
 
—
 
 
13
 


 Albert Dahan
 
 
83
 
 
25
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total due from related parties
 
$
612
 
$
38
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Due to related parties
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Joe Dahan
 
$
343
 
$
333
 


 Kids Jeans LLC
 
 
14
 
 
—
 


 
 
 
 
 
 


 Total due to related parties
 
$
357
 
$
333
 


 
 
 
 
 
 




 Joe Dahan  
        As part of the consideration paid in connection with the merger, Mr. Dahan is entitled to a certain percentage of our gross
profit in any applicable fiscal year until October 2017. See "Note 8—Commitments and Contingencies—Contingent Consideration Payments" for a further discussion on the
contingent consideration. 
        For
fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, payments of $1,757,000, $1,785,000, and $1,672,000, respectively, were made to Mr. Dahan. 
 Albert Dahan  
        In April 2009, we entered into a commission-based sales agreement with Albert Dahan, brother of Joe Dahan, for the sale of our products
into the off-price channels of distribution. Under the agreement, Mr. Albert Dahan is entitled to a commission for purchase orders entered into by us where he acts as a sales
person. The agreement may be terminated at any time for any reason or no reason with or without notice. For fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, payments of $580,000, $719,000 and $413,000, respectively, were
made to Mr. Albert Dahan under this arrangement. 
        Effective
as of June 1, 2009, we entered into a license agreement for the license of the children's product line with Kids Jeans LLC, or Kids LLC, an entity in which
Mr. Albert Dahan holds an interest and has voting control. Under the terms of the license, Kids LLC had an exclusive right to produce, distribute and sell children's products bearing the
Joe's® brand on a worldwide basis, subject to certain limitations on the channels of distribution. In exchange for the license, Kids LLC paid us a royalty payment of
20 percent on the first $5,000,000 in net sales, or $1,000,000. In April 2011, we terminated the license agreement and in June 2011, we entered into a settlement agreement with Kids LLC.
Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, Kids LLC agreed to pay to us approximately $450,000 in exchange for Kids LLC's right to continue to sell children's apparel products
until September 30, 2011 or December 31, 2011, depending on the product to be sold and customer to whom it will be sold. In exchange, the parties entered into mutual releases with
respect to all claims related to the subject matter. In October 2011, we entered into a new agreement, or New Agreement, 
F-27



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 10. Related Party and Other Transactions (Continued) 
similar
to the previous one, with Ever Blue LLC, or Ever Blue, an entity which Albert Dahan is the sole member, for the continued sale of children's products. In exchange for the license, Ever
Blue pays to us a royalty on net sales with certain guaranteed minimum sales for each term. In connection with the New Agreement, we provided initial funding to Ever Blue for inventory purchases. The
amount outstanding at November 30, 2011 was $529,000 and is due on demand. 
 11. Supplemental Cash Flow Information  



















 
 
Year ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands)
 


 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 


 Significant Non-cash transactions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Write off of fully depreciated fixed assets
 
$
671
 
$
189
 
$
—
 


 Additional cash flow information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Cash paid during the year for interest
 
$
506
 
$
513
 
$
430
 


 Cash paid during the year for income taxes
 
$
218
 
$
2,716
 
$
1,138
 




 12. Employee Benefit Plans  

        On December 1, 2002, we established a tax qualified defined contribution 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan, or the Plan. All employees who have worked for us for 30 consecutive days may
participate in the Plan and may contribute up to 100 percent, subject to certain limitations, of their salary to the plan. We may make company matched contributions on a discretionary basis.
All employees who have worked 500 hours qualify for profit sharing in the event at the end of each year we decide to do so. Costs of the Plan charged to operations were $16,000, $6,000, and
$6,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we match our employees' contributions under the Plan in the lesser of the following amounts: (i) up to 2 percent of the
employee's compensation, or (ii) 1/3 of the employee's contribution up to 6 percent of the employee's salary. For fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we contributed $117,000,
$107,000, and $59,000, respectively, to employees under the match portion of the Plan. 
F-28



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 13. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)  

        The following is a summary of the quarterly results of operations for the years ended November 30, 2011 and November 30, 2010: 






















 
 
Quarter ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands, except per share data)
 


2011



 
February 28 
 
May 31 
 
August 31 
 
November 30 
 


 Net sales
 
$
21,180
 
$
24,701
 
$
24,151
 
$
25,388
 


 Gross profit
 
 
10,385
 
 
11,521
 
 
9,744
 
 
11,714
 


 Income (loss) before taxes
 
 

398
 
 

1,556
 
 

(2,753
)
 

(250
)


 Income tax expense (benefit)
 
 
208
 
 
805
 
 
(715
)
 
18
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income
 
$
190
 
$
751
 
$
(2,038
)
$
(268
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net (loss) income per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings (loss) per common share—basic
 
$
0.00
 
$
0.01
 
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.00
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings (loss) per common share—diluted
 
$
0.00
 
$
0.01
 
$
(0.03
)
$
(0.00
)


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




 






















 
 
Quarter ended 
 


 
 
(in thousands, except per share data)
 


2010



 
February 28 
 
May 31 
 
August 31 
 
November 30 
 


 Net sales
 
$
23,184
 
$
25,893
 
$
25,534
 
$
23,565
 


 Gross profit
 
 
11,366
 
 
11,501
 
 
11,802
 
 
11,544
 


 Income before taxes
 
 

1,328
 
 

1,026
 
 

1,396
 
 

1,807
 


 Income tax expense
 
 
634
 
 
494
 
 
838
 
 
990
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income
 
$
694
 
$
532
 
$
558
 
$
817
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Net income per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings per common share—basic
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Earnings per common share—diluted
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 
$
0.01
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




F-29



 
Table of Contents

JOE'S JEANS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
 13. Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) (Continued) 
 
 ITEM 16.2
Joe's Jeans Inc. and Subsidiaries  
 
    Schedule II  Valuation of Qualifying Accounts     

























 
 
(in thousands) 
 


Description



 
Balance at
Beginning
of Period 
 
Additions
Charged to Costs
& Expenses 
 
Charged
to Other
Accounts 
 
Deductions(1) 
 
Balance at
End
of Period 
 


 Allowance for doubtful accounts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Year ended November 30, 2011
 
$
449
 
 
37
 
 
—
 
 
(166
)
$
320
 


 Year ended November 30, 2010
 
$
501
 
 
28
 
 
—
 
 
(80
)
$
449
 


 Year ended November 30, 2009
 
$
540
 
 
277
 
 
—
 
 
(316
)
$
501
 


 Allowance for customer credits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Year ended November 30, 2011
 
$
3,407
 
 
12,156
 
 
—
 
 
(12,707
)
$
2,856
 


 Year ended November 30, 2010
 
$
2,936
 
 
12,838
 
 
—
 
 
(12,367
)
$
3,407
 


 Year ended November 30, 2009
 
$
2,207
 
 
10,142
 
 
—
 
 
(9,413
)
$
2,936
 


 Allowances for inventories:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Year ended November 30, 2011
 
$
1,067
 
 
175
 
 
—
 
 
(128
)
$
1,114
 


 Year ended November 30, 2010
 
$
1,183
 
 
(116
)
 
—
 
 
0
 
$
1,067
 


 Year ended November 30, 2009
 
$
1,044
 
 
167
 
 
—
 
 
(28
)
$
1,183
 


 Allowance for deferred taxes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 Year ended November 30, 2011
 
$
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
$
—
 


 Year ended November 30, 2010
 
$
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
$
—
 


 Year ended November 30, 2009
 
$
20,291
 
 
—
 
 
—
 
 
(20,291
)
$
—
 








(1)Deductions
represent the actual amount of write-off of an asset against a reserve previously recorded, or in the case of inventories, a
deduction could represent the write-off upon disposition or a markdown of carrying value. In the case of deferred taxes, deductions result from changes in timing differences on a
year-to-year basis. 

F-30












 
Table of Contents 
 
 SIGNATURES  
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 













February 28, 2012
 
 JOE'S JEANS INC.



 
 
By:
 
/s/ MARC B. CROSSMAN

  Marc B. Crossman Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive
Officer) and President



 
 
By:
 
/s/ HAMISH SANDHU

  Hamish Sandhu Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial
Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)




        KNOW
ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Marc Crossman, his attorney-in-fact, each with the
power of substitution for him or any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same with exhibits thereto and other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorney-in-fact, or his or her substitutes, may do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant in the
capacities and on the dates indicated. 













Signature



 
Capacity



 
Date






 
 

 
 

 


/s/ MARC B. CROSSMAN

  Marc B. Crossman
 
Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer), President and Director
 
February 28, 2012


/s/ HAMISH SANDHU

  Hamish Sandhu
 
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)
 
February 28, 2012


/s/ SAMUEL J. FURROW

  Samuel J. Furrow
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
February 28, 2012


/s/ JOSEPH M. DAHAN

  Joseph M. Dahan
 
Director
 
February 28, 2012


/s/ KELLY HOFFMAN

  Kelly Hoffman
 
Director
 
February 28, 2012







Table of Contents













Signature



 
Capacity



 
Date






 
 

 
 

 


/s/ SUHAIL R. RIZVI

  Suhail R. Rizvi
 
Director
 
February 28, 2012


/s/ THOMAS O'RIORDAN

  Thomas O'Riordan
 
Director
 
February 28, 2012


/s/ KENT SAVAGE

  Kent Savage
 
Director
 
February 28, 2012














