
10-K
1
v242932_10k.htm
10-K






 

UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
________________________________
FORM 10-K
________________________________
 

SAnnual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the
fiscal year ended December 30, 2011.
OR
 

£Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for
the transition period from ________ to _________.
 
Commission File Number 0-18655
________________________________
 
EXPONENT, INC.
(Exact name of registrant
as specified in its charter)
________________________________
 


Delaware
77-0218904

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

 


149
    Commonwealth Drive, Menlo Park, California
94025

(Address of principal executive offices)
(Zip Code)

 
(650) 326-9400
(Registrant’s telephone number, including
area code)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b)
of the Act:
 


Title of Each Class
 
  Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share
 
The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)
of the Act: None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.


Yes £ 
No S 

 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.


Yes £
No S 

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.



Yes S
No £



 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).


Yes S
No £

 


 
 


 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent
filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K. £
 
Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer”, “accelerated
filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 


Large accelerated filer £
Accelerated filer S
Non-accelerated filer £
Smaller reporting company £

 
 
(Do not check if a smaller
 

 
 
reporting company)
 

 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).


Yes £
No S

 
The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant based on the closing sales price of the Common Stock as reported on the
NASDAQ National Market on July 1, 2011, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second quarter,
was $502,877,855. Shares of the registrant’s common stock held by each executive officer and director and by each entity
or person that, to the registrant’s knowledge, owned 10% or more of registrant’s outstanding common stock as of July
1, 2011 have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates of the registrant. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
 
The
number of shares of the issuer’s Common Stock outstanding as of February 17, 2012 was 13,322,962.
 
DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Portions of the Registrant’s
Definitive Proxy Statement for the Registrant’s 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 31, 2012, are incorporated
by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.
 


2
 


 
EXPONENT, INC.
FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2011
TABLE OF CONTENTS


 
 
Page

PART I
 
 

Item 1.
Business
4

Item 1A.
Risk Factors
13

Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments
16

Item 2.
Properties
17

Item 3.
Legal Proceedings
17

Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
17

 
 
 

PART II
 
 

Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
17

Item 6.
Selected Financial Data
19

Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
19

Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
29

Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
29

Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
29

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures
29

Item 9B.
Other Information
30

 
 
 

PART III
 
 

Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
30

Item 11.
Executive Compensation
30

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
30

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
30

Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
30

 
 
 

PART IV
 
 

Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
31

 
 
 

Signatures
 
59

Exhibit Index
 
60

 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, and
incorporates by reference, certain “forward-looking” statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and the rules promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), including but not limited to statements regarding future growth and market opportunities, revenue,
margins, headcount, utilization and operating expenses, that are based on the beliefs of the Company’s management, as well
as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Company’s management. Such forward-looking statements
are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. When used in this document and
in the documents incorporated herein by reference, statements other than statements of current or historical fact are forward-looking
statements. The words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect” and similar
expressions, as they relate to the Company or its management, identify certain of such forward-looking statements. Such statements
reflect the current views of the Company or its management with respect to future events and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties
and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect,
the Company’s actual results, performance, or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by,
any such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such material differences include the possibility
that the demand for our services may decline as a result of changes in general and industry specific economic conditions, the timing
of engagements for our services, the effects of competitive services and pricing, tort reform and liabilities resulting from claims
made against us. Additional risks and uncertainties are discussed in this Report under the heading “Risk Factors” and
elsewhere. The inclusion of such forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other
person that the future events, plans, or expectations contemplated by the Company will be achieved. The Company undertakes no obligation
to update or revise any such forward-looking statements.
 


3
 


 
PART I
 
Item 1. Business
 
GENERAL
 
The history of Exponent, Inc. goes back to
1967, with the founding of the partnership Failure Analysis Associates, which was incorporated the following year in California
and reincorporated in Delaware as Failure Analysis Associates, Inc. in 1988. The Failure Group, Inc. was organized in 1989 as a
holding company for Failure Analysis Associates, Inc. and changed its name to Exponent, Inc. in 1998. Exponent, Inc. (together
with its subsidiaries, “Exponent” or the “Company”) is a science and engineering consulting firm that provides
solutions to complex problems. Our multidisciplinary team of scientists, physicians, engineers, business and regulatory consultants
brings together more than 90 different technical disciplines to solve complicated issues facing industry and government today.
Our professional staff can perform in-depth scientific research and analysis, or very rapid-response evaluations to provide our
clients with the critical information they need.
 
CLIENTS
General 
Exponent
serves clients in automotive, aviation, chemical, construction, consumer products, energy, government, health, insurance, manufacturing,
technology and other sectors of the economy. Many of our engagements are initiated directly by large corporations or by lawyers
or insurance companies, whose clients anticipate, or are engaged in, litigation related to their products, equipment, processes
or service. Our services in failure prevention and technology evaluation have grown as the technological complexity of products
has increased over the years. 
Pricing
and Terms of Engagements 
We
generally provide our services on either a fixed-price basis or on a “time and material” basis, charging hourly rates
for each staff member involved in a project, based on his or her skills and experience. Our standard rates for professionals range
from $135 to $600 per hour. Our engagement agreements typically provide for monthly billing, require payment of our invoices within
30 days of receipt and permit clients to terminate engagements at any time. Clients normally agree to indemnify us and our personnel
against liabilities arising out of the use or application of the results of our work or recommendations.

SERVICES
 
Exponent provides high quality engineering
and scientific consulting services to clients around the world. Our service offerings are provided on a project-by-project basis.
Many projects require support from multiple practices. We currently operate 23 practices and centers, including:
 

·Biomechanics

·Biomedical Engineering

·Buildings & Structures

·Civil Engineering

·Construction Consulting

·Defense Technology Development 

·Ecological & Biological Sciences

·Electrical Engineering & Computer
Science

·Engineering Management Consulting

·Environmental & Earth Sciences

·Health Sciences

oCenter for Chemical Regulation & Food Safety

oCenter for Epidemiology, Biostatistics & Computational Biology

oCenter for Exposure Assessment & Dose Reconstruction

oCenter for Occupational Medicine & Environmental Health

oCenter for Toxicology & Mechanistic Biology

·Human Factors

·Industrial Structures

·Materials & Corrosion Engineering

·Mechanical Engineering

·Polymer Science & Materials Chemistry

·Statistical & Data Sciences

·Thermal Sciences

·Vehicle Analysis
 


4
 


 
Biomechanics
 
Our biomechanics staff uses engineering and
biomedical science to solve complex problems at the intersection of biology and engineering. Our expertise is used to understand
and evaluate the interaction between the human body as a biological system and the physical environment to explore the cause, nature,
and severity of injuries.
 
During the past year our biomechanics staff
performed analyses of human injury related to a variety of products including recreational vehicles, sporting goods, trucks, trains,
aircraft and motor cars. They also looked at the implications of using protective devices (such as restraint systems and helmets)
on reducing potential injuries and assessed injuries in the workplace, during recreational activities and in the home.
 
Biomedical Engineering 
 
Our Biomedical Engineering Practice applies
engineering principles to the medical field, including the evaluation of designs and performance of medical devices and biotechnology.
Our engineers and scientists assist clients with characterization of biomaterials, biological tissues, and medical devices. As
part of regulatory compliance, we can perform preclinical testing and formulate a related regulatory strategy, conduct design verification
and validation, as well as design and manufacturing failure analyses, recall management, and medical device explant analysis. In
addition, our staff can perform analysis of clinical outcomes for medical devices using administrative claims databases. Our expertise
is also utilized in product liability, intellectual property litigation, technology acquisition and due diligence matters.
 
Buildings & Structures 
 
The basic function of a building is to provide
structurally sound, durable and environmentally controlled space to house and protect occupants and contents. If this basic function
is not achieved, it is because some aspect(s) of the building design or construction failed to perform its intended function. Our
architects, engineers, and scientists have been investigating such failures for decades, and we use this experience to solve
problems with building systems and components, including finding the best repair options and mitigating the risk of future failures.
 
During the past year, we have evaluated numerous
problems with residential, commercial and industrial structures for insurers, attorneys and owners.  Our evaluations often
included property inspections, testing, engineering analysis and development of repair recommendations.  In addition, we have
worked with owners to assess and mitigate the risk of failure associated with hazards such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis
and aging infrastructure.  We have assessed these risks to industrial facilities, pipelines and nuclear power plant structures.
Finally, we continue to pursue activities to address green/sustainable building issues both from a construction as well as human
health standpoint to confront major social and economic decisions regarding the relationship between people-environment-profit
and the built environment. 
 
Civil Engineering
 
Our Civil Engineering Practice provides broad
expertise that includes geotechnical engineering, geological engineering, engineering geology, and geology to address a host of
geo-failures, including landslides, foundation and retaining wall failures, dam and levee failures and earthwork construction claims.
We also provide peer review services for complicated structures such as new nuclear power plant construction.  Our Water Resources
staff specializes in the application of proven hydrologic, hydraulic, hydrodynamic, and sediment transport research and science
to provide scientifically sound and cost-effective solutions to our clients.
 
Over the past year, our consultants have been
engaged in a number of investigations related to landslides, retaining wall and foundation failures, pipeline performance, flooding
and flood mitigation, and peer review of new nuclear reactor designs. This practice has had a diverse portfolio of projects and
clients that represent a broad spectrum of industries.
 
Construction Consulting
 
Our Construction Consulting Practice provides
project advisory, risk analysis, strategic planning, dispute resolution, and financial damages services.  During the past
year, we increased the depth and breadth of our expertise by adding experience in the government contract and claim advisory services
arena with particular emphasis in aerospace and defense programs. Our multi-disciplinary staff, which includes engineers, architects,
construction managers, schedulers, accountants, and technical specialists, provides these services to both the public and private
sectors for clients who represent a diverse mix of companies and agencies and are involved in a wide range of projects –
from complex construction and capital projects to Department of Defense aerospace and defense procurements.
 


5
 


 
Our projects include many sectors of the
construction industry as well as facilities and systems which include power plants, transmission and distribution facilities,
petrochemical facilities, water/wastewater treatment plants, bridges and roads, marine structures, rail systems, tunnels,
airports, detention facilities, commercial buildings, institutional buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities,
sporting arenas, resorts and gaming facilities, rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, shipbuilding, missiles, missile defense
systems, simulators and space launch vehicles. We provide services to most construction, aerospace and defense industry
participants: owners, lending agencies, prime contractors, subcontractors, designers, attorneys and insurance carriers.
 
Defense Technology Development
 
Drawing on our multidisciplinary engineering,
testing, failure analysis, and prevention expertise, our Defense Technology Development Practice specializes in harnessing advanced
technologies and practices from the commercial world to help our defense clients rapidly achieve solutions to their pressing technology
integration and development problems. We identify and leverage the best in commercial off-the-shelf technologies to create solutions
ranging from fully integrated systems to mission support modules.  Our focus is on cost effectiveness, ease of use, reliability,
high quality and speed of engineering design and execution. Our engineers and scientists continue to work in Afghanistan war zone
laboratories embedded with U.S. and NATO military personnel to ensure we understand their problems and can rapidly deliver solutions
to high priority military technology capability gaps.
 
During the past year we continued to refine
our ground penetrating radar (GPR) system to provide a real-time improvised explosive device/mine detection capability for a range
of ground vehicles. Internationally, additional GPR system deliveries were made to the U.K. Ministry of Defence for their operationally
deployed route clearance capability, and to the Swedish Ministry of Defence for developmental testing.  With our U.S. military
client, we have continued our work on the development program to deliver next-generation GPR capability and performance. 
Our sales in the area of ISR (Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance) have continued with both the Rapid Deployment Integrated
Surveillance Systems and the Mid-Range Thermal Imager System for soldiers in Afghanistan, who require increased situational awareness
coupled with night vision capabilities.  Also over the past year, we have expanded our mission support and technology quality
and evaluation services in the areas of personnel identification, radio-frequency identification, physical and logical access control,
biometrics, smart credentials, and data analytics for cyber security.
 
Ecological & Biological Sciences 
 
Our ecological scientists provide strategic
support to clients on issues related to natural resources damages associated with chemicals and forest fires,  international
environmental disputes, ecosystem service assessments for businesses, climate change, ecological risk assessment, novel remediation
methods, restoration of wetlands and other natural resources, large development projects, resource utilization (mineral mining,
oil and gas, wood pulp),  and the use of chemicals and other products in commerce. The practice specializes in assessing the
fate and effects of chemical, biological, and physical stressors on aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems. The practice is comprised
of nationally recognized experts that cover all disciplines related to the ecological implications and risks associated with these
projects.
 
Electrical Engineering & Computer Science
 
Our team of electrical engineers and computer
scientists performs a wide array of investigations ranging from electric power systems and equipment to integrated circuits, and
contributes to safer, more reliable designs in new products.  We operate laboratories for testing both heavy equipment and
electronics. In addition we have a broad capability in analyzing computer software.
 
During the past year our electrical engineers
and computer scientists continued to broaden our expertise in computer science consulting.  Our team expertise encompasses
a breadth of areas including information and numerical sciences, algorithms and data structures, computer graphics, computer architecture,
networking and communications, as well as security and cryptography. In software, our team experience includes many aspects of
software analysis and design ranging from evaluating the intellectual property content of a software product to resolving failures
related to embedded processors and machine control. We also perform complex software review, study the interaction of hardware
and software layers, as well as evaluate safety and reliability issues related to device control for safety-critical applications
such as medical devices.
 


6
 


 
Engineering Management Consulting
 
This practice provides multi-disciplinary expertise
and rapid response to assist clients with technical and management consulting services, often in extremely short time frames. Our
consultants provide services in the areas of asset strategy and planning, project management, engineering, construction, maintenance,
operations, environmental, and risk analysis.  This practice primarily services the electric and gas utility industries, focusing
on transmission and distribution as well as fossil fuel and nuclear generation. 
 
We provide unique and advanced services in
performing risk and reliability assessments. Our scientists and engineers assist our clients in minimizing bottom-line losses in
their business or operation. Accidents, unanticipated events, and system failures are the primary causes of deferred or lost production
interruptions and may lead to loss of life, injury, property damage, and undesired releases. Our multi-disciplinary staff has performed
diverse technical, business-interruption, and compliance-related risk and reliability assessments for chemical, petrochemical,
petroleum, and manufacturing clients worldwide.
 
Environmental & Earth Sciences

 
Our environmental scientists and engineers
provide cost-effective, scientifically defensible and realistic assessments and solutions to complex environmental issues. 
We offer technical, regulatory and litigation support to industries that include manufacturing, mining and minerals, oil and gas,
chemicals, forest products, railroads, aerospace, and trade associations.  Our consultants specialize in the areas of environmental
chemistry and forensics, hydrogeology, air toxics, modeling and monitoring, remediation consulting, environmental engineering and
waste management, and evaluation of environmental and social risks for large international capital projects. Our work often involves
complex and high visibility environmental scenarios, claims, or toxic tort matters, where evaluation of contamination and historical
reconstruction of events, releases, and doses are central to problem resolution.
 
Health Centers
 
Center for Chemical Regulation & Food
Safety
 
Our Center for Chemical Regulation and Food
Safety includes experienced staff of both technical and regulatory specialists who are experienced in dealing with foods, and with
pesticide and non-pesticide products including conventional chemicals, biochemicals, microbials, biocides, products of biotechnology,
and industrial chemicals. We provide practical, creative, scientific and regulatory support to meet global business objectives
at every stage of the product cycle, from research and development to retail and beyond.
 
During the past year our chemical regulation
& food safety staff have conducted a wide array of work. The European side of our business was involved with many projects
related to plant protection product regulatory submissions, from new active substances to product-specific dossiers for individual
member states.  In addition, we provided many specialist assessments relating to human and environmental exposure and product
efficacy. The first work for the next REACH submission deadline in 2013 also began. REACH (Registration,
Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances) is the European Union chemicals policy that requires all new
substances supplied at greater than 1 tonne (approx. 2,205 lbs.) per year to be registered.  In the U.S. we continued to provide
services related to pesticide product development and new U.S. product registration, registration review, due diligence, and data
compensation, as well as the approval of new pesticide inert ingredients and new non-pesticide chemical approvals. Our food safety
consultants assisted clients with food additives, food contact notifications, and nutrition-related analyses, as well as product
recall and litigation support.
 


7
 


 
Center for Epidemiology, Biostatistics &
Computational Biology
 
Our health scientists apply epidemiology to
examine and address complex health issues in a variety of settings. Through the principles of epidemiology, we analyze the interaction
of host, agent, and environment to reach conclusions about the causes and occurrence of disease in human populations. 
 
Our consultants combine the expertise of several
medical specialties, exposure assessment professionals, and other scientists who have advanced degrees in statistics and public
health. All of our physicians have graduate training in epidemiology and biostatistics. Our research work has included numerous
community health assessments, disease cluster investigations, survey research, occupational cohort and case-control studies, exposure
assessment studies, cancer modeling, meta-analyses, and state of the art reviews.
 
Our health economics and outcomes research
scientists determine the value of new medical technologies. We specialize in evaluating the impact of pharmaceuticals,
medical devices, biotechnology products, and diagnostics on treatment patterns, medical care resource utilization, and health care
costs; we assess the changes in health outcomes that result from new medical technologies, including decreased mortality, reduced
disease cases or symptoms, improved quality of life, and increased patient satisfaction; and we quantify changes in health outcomes
relative to their costs and to the costs of competing health care interventions, allowing assessment of the appropriate value for
these new medical technologies.
 
Center for Exposure Assessment & Dose
Reconstruction
 
Exposure assessment is the science of estimating
human exposure to chemical, physical, and biological agents, accounting for the frequency, magnitude, and duration of the exposure
events.  Exposure estimates can be compared to toxicity benchmarks or guidelines to assess potential risks to human health,
and provide critical inputs to human epidemiology studies, risk assessment, and regulatory compliance.
 
During the past year we expanded our capabilities
in air quality and atmospheric sciences with the addition of staff that provide air quality and meteorological modeling, permitting,
and licensing support services. They investigate potential and accidental releases of chemicals to the atmosphere, simulate transport
and fate of chemical substances, and develop measures of prevention and control, such as emergency preparedness and response.
Our atmospheric scientists work closely with our thermal and process engineers to predict and evaluate the dispersion of air emissions,
and work with our risk assessors to evaluate health risks posed by atmospheric releases to the ambient air and to indoor environments.
 
Center for Occupational Medicine & Environmental
Health 
 
This center is composed of industrial hygienists,
safety professionals, physicians, and scientists, with specialized training in the anticipation, recognition, evaluation, risk
assessment, and control of human health hazards.
 
Our staff has partnered with and assisted clients
with health-related issues involving workers, products, and manufacturing processes, and issues concerning communities and the
environment. We draw on the expertise and resources of staff located throughout the U.S. Our team includes senior
physicians and experienced health scientists specializing in the fields of epidemiology, industrial hygiene, toxicology,
safety, occupational health, veterinary medicine and engineering. This
unique multidisciplinary team provides the necessary insight to address complex health issues facing businesses, corporations,
property owners and others. We help to investigate a broad variety of environmental health concerns, such as evaluating claims
of illnesses from environmental exposures to chemicals, dusts, molds  and micro-organisms, and we develop strategies to aid
in controlling such exposures, when needed.  We also have assisted clients with their preventive health program needs in the
workplace and provide external verification of health services performance. Common medical conditions, if not managed well, can
erode worker productivity and have consequent effects on the competitiveness of an enterprise.
 


8
 


 
Center for Toxicology & Mechanistic
Biology 
 
We have exceptional expertise and depth in
toxicology and mechanistic biology.  We provide knowledge and experience that improves decisions affecting the regulation
of important substances in commerce.  We work with our clients to resolve important issues that affect the safe use of a wide
variety of substances. We evaluate the mechanisms by which substances can affect complex biological systems, provide perspectives
on potential effects at realistic human and environmental exposure levels, and develop strategies to manage human health and environmental
risks.  We are recognized for our outstanding credentials and decades of experience from government, academia and industry. 
 
During the past year we continued to provide
toxicology and clinical toxicology support in nearly all phases of pharmaceutical and combination drug development from preclinical
studies to post-marketing safety assessments. We reviewed existing data and developed new studies on potential endocrine toxicity
of chemical substances.  Our radiation toxicologists evaluated contamination levels at several Japanese facilities in the
Fukushima area after the March 2011, earthquake and subsequent tsunami.  We are also extremely active in the research related
to the identification, assessment, and prioritization of risks (the probability of adverse effects) associated with engineered
nanomaterial development and manufacturing processes.
 
Human Factors 
 
Our Human Factors staff evaluates human performance
and safety in product and system use. Our consultants study how the limitations and capabilities of people, including memory, perception,
reaction time, judgment, physical size and dexterity, affect the way they use a product, interact with an organization or environment,
process information or  participate in an activity.
 
During the past year our scientists evaluated
the human performance issues and behaviors that may have contributed to accident causation. We addressed the reliability of human
memory and retrospective reporting in the gathering of fact-based evidence.   We continued to review warnings and labeling
issues related to consumer products, pharmaceuticals, motor vehicles, medical devices and industrial products.  In addition,
we assisted manufacturers with compliance of regulatory guidelines related to products and worked with them regarding the Consumer
Product Safety Commission’s new publicly available consumer product safety database.
 
Industrial Structures 
 
Our Industrial Structures Practice, based in
Düsseldorf, Germany, specializes in design and assessment of industrial structures subject to extreme conditions.  Our
Düsseldorf office has provided design reviews and assessments on more than 1,000 structures around the world, and our staff
has participated in the creation of several engineering standards. 
 
Our Industrial Structures Practice provides
planning, assessment, rehabilitation and dismantling analysis of bearing structures in four particular areas: antenna masts, power
plants, buildings and special structures like refractories or tanks.  One service we provide in over 800 locations throughout
the year is quality assurance of antenna masts for a variety of facilities including telecommunications, wind energy and industrial
chimneys. Our consultants provide inspection services related to new construction and assess design deficiencies related to new
and existing facilities, as well as assist our clients with on-time, quality construction on their projects.
 
With the use of our self-developed computer
software for non-linear material behavior, close-to-reality assessment of a wide variety of structures such as cracked reinforced
concrete structures, multi-layer refractories or masonry towers is provided. Beyond industrial structures more and more commercial
property projects are becoming part of this practice.
 


9
 


 
Materials & Corrosion Engineering
 
Our in-depth knowledge of materials and electrochemistry,
combined with the breadth of collective expertise in many areas of engineering and science, is used to understand how
and why materials fail, as well as to prevent future failures.  Our engineers and scientists use their broad background in
field investigations, root-cause assessments, and materials engineering to solve complex problems for both industrial and legal
clients. During the past year we conducted failure analysis, failure prevention, and integrity assessment investigations for a
wide variety of clients including medical, aerospace, chemical processing, pipeline, automotive, construction, consumer electronics,
recreational, and other industries.
 
Mechanical Engineering 
 
We provide clients with a thorough comprehension
of current or alternative designs to determine potential vulnerabilities before failures occur, develop appropriate risk mitigation
methods, and provide post failure investigations. Our consultants review the safety and reliability of processes and products for
a variety of industries, including transportation, heavy industry, energy, and consumer products. Our scientists and engineers
also provide services in the area of intellectual property and are often asked to interpret the language of a patent from a scientific
and engineering perspective and provide valuable insight regarding the proper technical interpretation of patent claims. During
the past year our mechanical engineers worked on a wide variety of projects ranging from high profile consumer product recall investigations
to pipeline integrity evaluations and worker safety issues.  Our staff developed and utilized detailed, validated computational
models to evaluate equipment, consumer products and medical devices to solve a variety of technical challenges associated with
their design and optimization.   
 
Polymer Science & Materials Chemistry

 
Our polymer science and materials chemistry
staff consults with industrial, government, and insurance clients, as well as their outside counsels, regarding polymers used in
diverse applications and chemical aspects of batteries, drug delivery systems, and other products that depend on highly controlled
manufacturing environments.  We assist clients in understanding the short- and long-term performance of plastic, rubber, adhesive,
coating, composite and power systems when challenged by physical, chemical, thermal and other operational stresses. During
the past year we added key members to our staff with expertise in performance textiles, engineering plastics, and materials for
medical applications. We also increased our presence in our China office and added staff in our new Atlanta office. We continue
to work on a number of projects in which polymers and chemistry are important to the performance of medical devices, food packaging,
high-performance coatings, utilities and infrastructure, energy and power systems, and general consumer products.
 
Statistical & Data Sciences 
 
Our Statistical & Data Sciences staff comprises
our company’s core capabilities in statistical methodology and offers its expertise to serve clients at any and all stages
of the empirical research process including product development, manufacturing, and regulatory stages.  The practice specializes
in determining whether a particular activity or product poses an unreasonable risk.  Risk estimation involves establishing
a reference period and then collecting information about the number of injuries (or other adverse events) suffered and the amount
of exposure during this period.  Through analysis and synthesis of client-supplied data, combined with information from public
sources, we help clients measure their own risk in the context of similar risks and determine appropriate courses of action.  During
the past year, we worked on a variety of projects for government, industry, and legal clients.  Our statisticians and data
scientists performed assessments of manufacturing quality systems, investigated data mining methods to improve classification tools,
and analyzed the reliability of home appliances during use by consumers.
 
Thermal Sciences
 
We have investigated and analyzed thousands
of fires and explosions ranging from high loss disasters at manufacturing facilities to small insurance claims. Information gained
from these analyses has helped us assist clients in assessing preventive measures related to the design of their products. Based
on our investigation experience, we also assist industry to minimize their risk of fires and explosions, provide regulatory consulting
for permitting new industrial facilities, and assist manufacturers in addressing allegations of the risk of fires associated with
consumer products.   Our engineers use fire modeling and other computational fire dynamics modeling tools to supplement our
analytical, experimental, and field-based activities. Preventive services include process safety hazard analysis for the chemical
and oil and gas industries, fire protection engineering and dust explosion consulting.
 


10
 


 
During the past year, in the context of consumer
product safety, our staff reviewed lithium-ion battery technology, its failure modes and past failure history, and studied the
life cycle of the storage and distribution of batteries. This work was conducted on behalf of the Fire Protection Research Foundation,
a part of the National Fire Protection Association. The review laid out a research approach for evaluating and identifying battery
storage facility fire protection strategies. This is part of a larger study of the hazards associated with lithium-ion battery
storage, with an aim of developing fire protection strategies to protect battery and battery-powered products, bulk storage and
distribution facilities.
 
Vehicle Analysis
 
We have performed thousands of investigations
for the automotive, trucking, recreational vehicle, marine, aviation, aerospace, and rail industries. Information gained from these
analyses has assisted clients in assessing preventive measures related to the design of their products, as well as evaluating failures.
 
Our Test and Engineering Center located
in Phoenix, Arizona, is the setting for our most complex tests, along with rigorous analysis of results. We have gained a worldwide
reputation for our ability to mobilize resources expeditiously and efficiently, integrate a broad array of technical disciplines,
and provide valuable insight that is objective and withstands rigorous scrutiny. Many of our projects involve addressing the cause
of accidents. Our clients rely on us to determine what happened in an accident and why it happened. In many cases, they also want
us to discover what could have been done to reduce the severity of the accident or to reduce injuries to those involved. Whether
the objective is design analysis, component testing, or accident reconstruction, our knowledge of vehicle systems and accident
reconstruction principles and our experience from conducting full-scale tests add insight and proficiency to every project.
 
COMPETITION
 
The marketplace
for our services is fragmented and we face different sources of competition in providing various services. In addition, the services
that we provide to some of our clients can be performed in-house by those clients. Clients that have the capability to perform
such services themselves will retain Exponent or other independent consultants because of independence concerns.
 
In each of
the foregoing practices and centers, we believe that the principal competitive factors are: technical capability and breadth of
services, ability to deliver services on a timely basis, professional reputation and knowledge of the litigation and regulatory
processes. Although we believe that we generally compete favorably in each of these areas, some of our competitors may be able
to provide services acceptable to our clients at lower prices.
 
We believe
that the barriers to entry are low and that for many of our technical disciplines, competition is increasing. In response to competitive
forces in the marketplace, we continue to explore new markets for our various technical disciplines.
 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS OVERVIEW
 
We report two operating segments based on two primary areas of service. One operating
segment is a broad service group providing technical consulting in different practices primarily in the areas of engineering and
technology development. Our other operating segment provides services in the area of environmental, epidemiology and health risk
analysis. This operating segment provides a wide range of consulting services relating to environmental hazards and risks and
the impact on both human health and the environment. For
more information about the financial condition and results of operations of each segment, please see Part II - “Item
7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8: Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”

 
EMPLOYEES 
As
of December 30, 2011, we employed 937 full-time and part-time employees, including 682 engineering and scientific staff, 80 technical
support staff and 175 administrative and support staff. Our staff includes 600 employees with advanced degrees, of which 385 employees
have achieved the level of Ph.D., Sc.D. or M.D. 
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION

The
address of our internet website is www.exponent.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, access to our
Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other periodic Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) reports, along with amendments to all of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
file the reports with the SEC. Additionally, copies of materials filed by us with the SEC may be accessed at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. or at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. For
information about the SEC’s Public Reference Room, the public may contact 1-800-SEC-0330. Copies of material filed by
us with the SEC may also be obtained by writing to us at our corporate headquarters, Exponent, Inc., Attention: Investor
Relations, 149 Commonwealth Drive, Menlo Park, CA 94025, or by calling (650) 326-9400. The content of our internet website is
not incorporated into and is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 


11
 


 
EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS 
The executive
officers of Exponent and their ages as of February 24, 2012 are as follows:
 


Name
Age
Position

 
 
 

Paul R. Johnston, Ph.D.
58
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

 
 
 

Elizabeth L. Anderson, Ph.D.
71
Group Vice President

 
 
 

Paul D. Boehm, Ph.D.
63
Group Vice President

 
 
 

Robert D. Caligiuri, Ph.D.
60
Group Vice President

 
 
 

Robert C. Lange
64
Group Vice President

 
 
 

Subbaiah V. Malladi, Ph.D.
65
Chief Technical Officer

 
 
 

John E. Moalli, Sc.D.
47
Group Vice President

 
 
 

John D. Osteraas, Ph.D.
57
Group Vice President

 
 
 

Richard L. Schlenker, Jr.
46
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary

 
Executive
officers of Exponent are appointed by the Board of Directors and serve at the discretion of the Board or until the appointment
of their successors. There is no family relationship between any of the directors and officers of the Company.

Paul
R. Johnston, Ph.D., joined the Company in 1981, was promoted to Principal Engineer in 1987, and to Vice President in 1996.
In 1997, he assumed responsibility for the firm’s network of offices. In July 2003, he was appointed Chief Operating Officer
and added responsibility for the Health and Environmental Groups. In 2006, he assumed line responsibility for all of the firm’s
consulting groups. Dr. Johnston was named President in May 2007. He was named Chief Executive Officer and elected to the Board
of Directors in May 2009. Dr. Johnston received his Ph.D. (1981) in Civil Engineering and M.S. (1977) in Structural Engineering
from Stanford University. He received his B.A.I. (1976) in Civil Engineering with First Class Honors from Trinity College, University
of Dublin, Ireland where he was elected a Foundation Scholar in 1975. Dr. Johnston is a Registered Professional Civil Engineer
in the State of California and a Chartered Engineer in Ireland.
Elizabeth
L. Anderson, Ph.D., joined the Company in June 2006 as a Group Vice President and Principal Scientist. Prior to joining Exponent,
Dr. Anderson was President and CEO of Sciences International, a health and environmental consulting firm. Dr. Anderson received
her Ph.D. (1970) in Organic Chemistry from The American University, M.S. (1964) in Organic Chemistry from the University of Virginia
and B.S. (1962) in Chemistry from the College of William and Mary. Dr. Anderson is a Fellow of the Academy of Toxicological Sciences,
a founder and past-President of the Society for Risk Analysis and Editor-in-Chief of the journal, Risk Analysis: An International
Journal.

Paul D. Boehm, Ph.D., joined the Company
in April 2004 as a Group Vice President and Principal Scientist. Prior to joining the Company, Dr. Boehm was Vice President and
Market Manager, Oil and Gas Sector, at Battelle Memorial Institute from 2001 to 2004. From 1999 to 2001, Dr. Boehm was Vice President
and Managing Director, Environmental Health and Safety Consulting at Arthur D. Little, Inc. Dr. Boehm received his Ph.D. (1977)
and M.S. (1973) in Oceanography from the University of Rhode Island and B.S. (1970) in Chemical Engineering from the University
of Rochester. Dr. Boehm has published more than 100 articles in peer-reviewed journals and authored numerous reports on environmental
forensics and impact assessments. Dr. Boehm has been chosen to serve on several National Research Council panels.


12
 


 

Robert D. Caligiuri, Ph.D., joined the
Company in 1987. He was promoted to Principal Engineer in 1990 and Group Vice President in 1999. Dr. Caligiuri received his Ph.D.
(1977) and M.S. (1974) in Materials Science and Engineering from Stanford University and B.S. (1973) in Mechanical Engineering
from the University of California, Davis. Prior to joining the Company he was a Program Manager and Materials Scientist for SRI
International. He is a Registered Professional Metallurgical Engineer in the States of California, Utah, Michigan and North Carolina
and a Fellow of the American Society for Materials.

Robert C. Lange worked for the
Company from 1982 to 1994. During this period, he was promoted to Principal Engineer and Vice President in 1985. Mr. Lange rejoined
Exponent in November 2008 as Group Vice President and Principal Engineer. From 1994 to 2008, Mr. Lange was Executive-In-Charge,
Engineering Director, and Executive Director Vehicle Structure and Safety Integration at General Motors Corporation. Mr. Lange
received his M.S. (1975) and B.S. (1969) in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Michigan. Mr. Lange is a past Director
of the National Safety Council. Mr. Lange is a member of the Transportation Research Board Advisory Committee for Congressional
Report on the Strategic Highway Research Plan, SHRP-2 and a past member of the Board of Directors of the National Safety Council.
He was Chair of the Society of Automotive Engineers’ Motor Vehicle Systems Board from 2004 to 2008.

Subbaiah V. Malladi, Ph.D., joined
the Company in 1982 as a Senior Engineer, becoming a Senior Vice President in January 1988 and a Corporate Vice President in September
1993. In October 1998, Dr. Malladi was appointed Chief Technical Officer of the Company. Dr. Malladi also served as a Director
of the Company from March 1991 through September 1993. He was re-appointed as a Director in April 1996 and served on the Board
until May 2005. He received a Ph.D. (1980) in Mechanical Engineering from the California Institute of Technology, M.Tech (1972)
in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, B.E. (1970) in Mechanical Engineering from SRI Venkateswara
University, India and B.S. (1966) in Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics from Osmania University, India. Dr. Malladi is a Registered
Professional Mechanical Engineer in the State of California.
John E. Moalli, Sc.D.,
joined the Company in 1992. He was promoted to Principal in 1997, served as an Office and Practice Director and became Group Vice
President in 2002. Dr. Moalli received his Sc.D. (1992) in Polymers from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and B.S. (1987)
in Civil Engineering from Northeastern University. Dr. Moalli is a nationally recognized expert in polymetric materials and has
an academic appointment at Stanford University.
John
D. Osteraas, Ph.D., worked for the Company from 1982 to 1985 as a Senior Engineer. He rejoined the Company in 1990 as a Managing
Engineer. He was promoted to Principal Engineer in 1992 and Group Vice President in 2006. Dr. Osteraas received his Ph.D. (1990)
in Civil Engineering, M.S. (1977) in Civil Engineering: Structural Engineering from Stanford University and B.S. (1976) in Civil
and Environmental Engineering from the University of Wisconsin. Dr. Osteraas is a Registered Professional Engineer in 13 states
and is a Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers.
Richard L. Schlenker, Jr. joined
the Company in 1990. Mr. Schlenker is the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary of the Company.
He was appointed Executive Vice President in April 2010, Chief Financial Officer in July 1999 and Secretary of the Company in November
1997. Mr. Schlenker was the Director of Human Resources from 1998 until his appointment as Chief Financial Officer. He was the
Manager of Corporate Development from 1996 until 1998. From 1993 to 1996, Mr. Schlenker was a Business Manager, where he managed
the business activities for multiple consulting practices within the Company. Prior to 1993, he held several different positions
in finance and accounting within the Company. Mr. Schlenker holds a B.S. in Finance from the University of Southern California.

Item 1A. Risk Factors
 
Exponent
operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. These
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those mentioned elsewhere in this report and those set forth below. 
 
Lack of sizable backlog may lead to less
predictable, and perhaps lower, future revenues.
 
Revenues are primarily derived from services
provided in response to client requests or events that occur without notice, and engagements, generally billed as services are
performed, are terminable or subject to postponement or delay at any time by clients. As a result, backlog at any particular time
is small in relation to our quarterly or annual revenues and is not a reliable indicator of revenues for any future periods. Revenues
and operating margins for any particular quarter are generally affected by staffing mix, resource requirements and timing and size
of engagements.
 


13
 


 
Failure to attract and retain
key employees may adversely affect our business. 
Exponent’s
business involves the delivery of professional services and is labor-intensive. Our success depends in large part upon our ability
to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. Qualified personnel are in great demand and
are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We cannot provide any assurance that we can continue to attract
sufficient numbers of highly qualified technical and managerial personnel and to retain existing employees. The loss of key managerial
employees, business generators or any significant number of employees could have a material adverse impact on our business, including
our ability to secure and complete engagements. 
Competition could reduce our
pricing and adversely affect our business.

The
markets for our services are highly competitive. In addition, there are relatively low barriers to entry into our markets and
we have faced, and expect to continue to face, additional competition from new entrants into our markets. Competitive pressure
could reduce the market acceptance of our services and result in price reductions that could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition or results of operations. 
The loss of a large client
could adversely affect our business. 
We currently derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in the consumer electronics, insurance,
petrochemical, transportation, and utilities industries and the government sector. The loss of any large client, organization or
insurer could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our business can be adversely affected
by downturns in the overall economy.

The markets that we serve are cyclical and
subject to general economic conditions. The direction and relative strength of the global economy continues to be uncertain. If
the economic growth in the United States, where we primarily operate, continues to be slow and not improve, our clients may consolidate
or go out of business and thus demand for our services could be reduced significantly.

Our clients may be unable to pay for
our services.

If a client's financial difficulties become
severe, the client may be unwilling or unable to pay our invoices in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect
collections of both our accounts receivable and unbilled services. On occasion, some of our clients have entered bankruptcy, which
has prevented us from collecting amounts owed to us. The bankruptcy of a client with substantial accounts receivable could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

We
hold substantial investments that could present liquidity risks. 
Our
cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of December 30, 2011, consisted primarily of obligations of state and local
government agencies and the U.S. Treasury. We follow an established investment policy to monitor, manage and limit our exposure
to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as
well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. 
As
a result of current adverse financial market conditions, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from
liquidity and credit concerns. As of December 30, 2011, we had no impairment charge associated with our investment portfolio relating
to such adverse financial market conditions. Although we believe our current investment portfolio has a low risk of impairment,
we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will
remain unimpaired.

Our
business is dependent on our professional reputation.
 
The
professional reputation of Exponent and its consultants is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements
and attract or retain professionals. Proven or unproven allegations against us may damage our professional reputation. Any factors
that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 


14
 


 
Our
business can be adversely impacted by deregulation or reduced regulatory enforcement.
 
Public concern over health, safety and preservation
of the environment has resulted in the enactment of a broad range of environmental and/or other laws and regulations by local,
state and federal lawmakers and agencies. These laws and the implementing of new regulations affect nearly every industry, as well
as the agencies of federal, state and local governments charged with their enforcement. To the extent changes in such laws, regulations
and enforcement or other factors significantly reduce the exposures of manufacturers, owners, service providers and others to liability,
the demand for our services may be significantly reduced.
 
Tort reform can reduce demand for our
services.
 
Several of our practices have a significant
concentration in litigation support consulting services. To the extent tort reform reduces the exposure of manufacturers, owners,
service providers and others to liability, the demand for our litigation support consulting services may be significantly reduced.
 
Our quarterly results may vary.
 
Variations
in our revenues and operating results occur from time to time, as a result of a number of factors, such as the significance of
client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter, the timing of engagements, the number of working days in a quarter,
employee hiring and utilization rates, and integration of companies acquired. Because a high percentage of our expenses, particularly
personnel and facilities related expenses, are relatively fixed in advance of any particular quarter, a variation in the timing
of the initiation or the completion of our client assignments can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter
to quarter.
 
Our engagements may result in professional
or other liability. 
 
Our services typically involve
difficult engineering and scientific assignments and carry risks of professional and other liability. Many of our engagements involve
matters that could have a severe impact on a client's business, cause a client to lose significant amounts of money, or prevent
a client from pursuing desirable business opportunities. Accordingly, if a client is dissatisfied with our performance, the client
could threaten or bring litigation in order to recover damages or to contest its obligation to pay our fees. Litigation alleging
that we performed negligently, disclosed client confidential information, lost or damaged evidence, infringed on patents, or otherwise
breached our obligations to a client could expose us to significant liabilities to our clients or other third parties or tarnish
our reputation.
 
Potential conflicts of
interests may preclude us from accepting some engagements. 
 
We provide litigation support consulting and
other services primarily in connection with significant disputes, or other matters that are usually adversarial or that involve
sensitive client information. The nature of our consulting services may preclude us from accepting engagements with other potential
clients because of conflicts. Accordingly, the nature of our business limits the number of both potential clients and potential
engagements.
 
The market price of our common stock
may be volatile.
 
Many factors could cause the market price of
our common stock to rise and fall. These include the risk factors listed above, changes in estimates of our performance or recommendations
by securities analysts, future sales of shares of common stock in the public market, market conditions in the industry and economy
as a whole, acquisitions or strategic alliances involving us or our competitors, restatement of financial results and changes in
accounting principles or methods. In addition, the stock market often experiences significant price fluctuations. These fluctuations
are often unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect
the market price of our common stock. When the market price of a company's stock drops significantly, shareholders often institute
securities class action litigation against that company. Any litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert
the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business.
 


15
 


 
Impairment of goodwill may require us
to record a significant charge to earnings.   
 
On our balance sheet, we have $8,607,000 of
goodwill subject to periodic evaluation for impairment. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at reporting units, the
loss of key employees, changes to the scope of operations of our business or a significant and sustained decline in our stock price
could result in goodwill impairment charges. During times of financial market volatility, significant judgment is required to determine
the underlying cause of the decline and whether stock price declines are short-term in nature or indicative of an event or change
in circumstances.
 
Impairment of long-lived assets or restructuring
activities may require us to record a significant charge to earnings.    
 
Our long-lived assets, including our office
and laboratory space in Menlo Park, California and our test and engineering center in Phoenix, Arizona, are subject to periodic
testing for impairment. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow at reporting units could result in impairment of our
long-lived assets. In addition, we have operating lease commitments for office, warehouse and laboratory space of $20,542,000 as
of December 30, 2011. Changes in the business environment could lead to changes in the scope of operations of our business. These
changes, including the closure of one or more offices, could result in restructuring and/or asset impairment charges.
 
Our international
operations create special risks that could adversely affect our business.
 
In addition to
our offices in the United States, we have physical offices in the United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland and China and
conduct business in several other countries. We expect to continue to expand globally and our international revenues may
account for an increasing portion of our revenues in the future. Our international operations carry special financial,
business and legal risks, including cultural and language differences; employment laws and related factors that could result
in lower utilization, higher staffing costs, and cyclical fluctuations of utilizations and revenues; currency
fluctuations that adversely affect our financial position and operating results; burdensome regulatory requirements and other
barriers to conducting business; managing the risks associated with engagements with foreign officials and
governmental agencies, including the risks arising from the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; greater difficulties in managing
and staffing foreign operations; successful entry and execution in new markets; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings,
and potentially adverse tax consequences.
 
Inherent risks
related to government contracts may adversely affect our business.
 
We work for various
United States and foreign governmental entities and agencies. Government entities reserve the right to audit our contracts and
conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to government contracts. Findings from an audit may
result in fees being refunded to the government or prospective adjustment to previously agreed upon rates that will affect future
margins. If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become
subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture
of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of the government.
The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of the adequacy
of such controls. Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and
publicity than other commercial contracts. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of whether it is
accurate, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts.
 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
 
None.
 


16
 


 
Item 2. Properties
 
Our Silicon
Valley office facilities consist of a 153,738 square foot building, with office and laboratory space located on a 6.3-acre tract
of land we own in Menlo Park, California and an adjacent 27,000 square feet of leased warehouse storage space.
 
Our Test and Engineering Center (TEC) occupies
147 acres in Phoenix, Arizona. We lease this land from the state of Arizona under a 30-year lease agreement that expires in January
2028 and have options to renew for two fifteen-year periods. We constructed an indoor test facility as well as an engineering
and test preparation building at the TEC.
 
In addition, we lease office, warehouse and
laboratory space in 18 other locations in 13 states and the District of Columbia, as well as in Germany, China, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom. Leases for these offices, warehouse and laboratory facilities have terms generally ranging between one and
ten years. Aggregate lease expense in fiscal 2011 for all leased properties was $5,180,000.
 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 
Exponent
is not engaged in any material legal proceedings.
 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not applicable.
 
PART II
 
Item 5. Market for Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
Exponent’s common stock is traded on
the NASDAQ Global Select Market, under the symbol “EXPO”. The following table sets forth for the fiscal periods indicated
the high and low sales prices for our common stock.
 


Stock prices by quarter 
High  
Low 

  
    
   

Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2010: 
    
   

First Quarter 
$29.94  
$25.13 

Second Quarter 
$33.92  
$26.71 

Third Quarter 
$35.00  
$28.36 

Fourth Quarter 
$41.26  
$30.87 

  
    
   

Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 2011: 
    
   

First Quarter 
$45.53  
$35.06 

Second Quarter 
$45.53  
$39.86 

Third Quarter 
$47.93  
$35.56 

Fourth Quarter 
$51.17  
$38.13 

 
As of February 17, 2012, there were  332
holders of record of our common stock. Because many of the shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other
institutions on behalf of stockholders, we believe that there are considerably more beneficial holders of our common stock
than record holders.
 
We have never paid cash dividends on our common
stock. See Item 7 of Part II “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
– Liquidity and Capital Resources.”
 


17
 


 
The following table provides information on
the Company’s share repurchases (of Company common stock) for the quarter ended December 30, 2011 (in thousands, except price
per share):
 


  
Total Number of Shares Purchased  
Average Price Paid Per Share  
Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs  
Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plan or Program 

  
   
   
   
  

October 1 to October 28 
 25  
$40.75  
 25  
$9,627 

October 29 to November 25 
 -  
 -  
 -  
$9,627 

November 26 to December 30 
 5  
$44.01  
 5  
$9,406 

Total 
 30  
$41.30  
 30  
   

 
On February 9, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized an additional $35 million for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock.
 
COMPANY STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE GRAPH
 
The graph compares the Company’s cumulative
total stockholder return calculated on a dividend-reinvested basis from 2006 through 2011 with those of the Standard & Poor’s
(“S&P”) 500 Index and the S&P SmallCap 600 Index. The Company does not have a comparable peer group and thus
has selected the S&P Small Cap 600 Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on the last day of 2006. Note that the historic
stock price performance is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.
 
 
  


18
 


 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
 
The following selected consolidated financial
data are derived from our consolidated financial statements. This data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto, and with Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.
 


  
 Fiscal Year 

(In thousands, except per share data) 
 2011  
 2010  
 2009  
 2008  
 2007 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated Statements of Income Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Revenues before reimbursements 
$246,667  
$221,860  
$205,714  
$206,194  
$183,139 

Revenues 
$272,446  
$248,753  
$227,882  
$228,838  
$205,148 

Operating income 
$53,460  
$43,241  
$33,262  
$36,722  
$29,944 

Net income 
$32,695  
$27,521  
$22,127  
$23,160  
$20,341 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net income per share: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$2.31  
$1.92  
$1.56  
$1.57  
$1.36 

Diluted 
$2.22  
$1.83  
$1.47  
$1.47  
$1.25 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$84,439  
$106,549  
$67,895  
$32,598  
$10,700 

Short-term investments 
$25,260  
$-  
$7,490  
$24,772  
$53,034 

Working capital 
$137,803  
$136,860  
$103,253  
$82,073  
$88,794 

Total assets 
$268,788  
$258,892  
$206,481  
$183,090  
$182,391 

Long-term liabilities 
$21,298  
$17,358  
$11,333  
$6,761  
$6,509 

Total stockholders’ equity 
$186,715  
$183,800  
$150,071  
$128,094  
$131,919 

 

Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
OVERVIEW
Exponent, Inc. is a science and engineering
consulting firm that provides solutions to complex problems. Our multidisciplinary team of scientists, physicians, engineers, business
and regulatory consultants brings together more than 90 different technical disciplines to solve complicated issues facing industry
and government today. Our services include analysis of products, people, property, processes and finances related to litigation,
product recall, regulatory compliance, research, development and design.
 
CRITICAL
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

In preparing our consolidated financial statements,
we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income,
as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. We base our assumptions, judgments
and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual
results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. On a regular basis we evaluate
our assumptions, judgments and estimates and make changes accordingly. We believe that the assumptions, judgments and estimates
involved in the accounting for revenue recognition and estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts have the greatest potential
impact on our consolidated financial statements, so we consider these to be our critical accounting policies. We discuss below
the assumptions, judgments and estimates associated with these policies. Historically, our assumptions, judgments and estimates
relative to our critical accounting policies have not differed materially from actual results. For further information on our critical
accounting policies, see Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Revenue recognition.  We derive our
revenues primarily from professional fees earned on consulting engagements, product sales in our defense technology development
practice, fees earned for the use of our equipment and facilities, as well as reimbursements for outside direct expenses associated
with the services that are billed to our clients.
 


19
 


 
Substantially all of our engagements are performed
under time and material or fixed-price billing arrangements. For time and material and fixed-price projects, revenue is generally
recognized as the services are performed. For substantially all of our fixed-price engagements we recognize revenue based on the
relationship of incurred labor hours at standard rates to our estimate of the total labor hours at standard rates we expect to
incur over the term of the contract. Our estimate of total labor hours we expect to incur over the term of the contract is based
on the nature of the project and our past experience on similar projects. We believe this methodology achieves a reliable measure
of the revenue from the consulting services we provide to our customers under fixed-price contracts.
 
Significant management judgments and estimates
must be made and used in connection with the revenues recognized in any accounting period. These judgments and estimates include
an assessment of collectibility and, for fixed-price engagements, an estimate as to the total effort required to complete the project.
If we made different judgments or utilized different estimates, the amount and timing of our revenue for any period could be materially
different.
 
All contracts are subject to review by management,
which requires a positive assessment of the collectibility of contract amounts. If, during the course of the contract, we determine
that collection of revenue is not reasonably assured, we do not recognize the revenue until its collection becomes reasonably assured,
which in those situations would generally be upon receipt of cash. We assess collectibility based on a number of factors, including
past transaction history with the client, as well as the credit-worthiness of the client. Losses on fixed-price contracts are recognized
during the period in which the loss first becomes evident. Contract losses are determined to be the amount by which the estimated
total costs of the contract exceeds the total fixed price of the contract.
 
Estimating the allowance for doubtful accounts.
 We must make estimates of our ability to collect accounts receivable and our unbilled work-in-process. In circumstances where
we are aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations to us, we record a specific allowance to
reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. For all other customers we recognize
allowances for doubtful accounts based upon historical bad debts, customer concentration, customer credit-worthiness, current economic
conditions, aging of amounts due and changes in customer payment terms. As of December 30, 2011, our accounts receivable balance
was $73,065,000, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of $2,339,000.
 


20
 


 
The following table sets forth, for the periods
indicated, the percentage of revenues of certain items in our consolidated statements of income and the percentage increase (decrease)
in the dollar amount of such items year to year:
 


  
PERCENTAGE OF REVENUES  
PERIOD TO 

  
FOR FISCAL YEARS  
PERIOD CHANGE 

  
2011  
2010  
2009  
2011 vs. 2010  
2010 vs. 2009 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Revenues 
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
 9.5% 
 9.2%

  
    
    
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
    
    
    
   

   Compensation and related expenses 
 57.6  
 58.2  
 61.5  
 8.3  
 3.4 

   Other operating expenses 
 8.5  
 8.6  
 9.4  
 8.5  
 0.3 

   Reimbursable expenses 
 9.5  
 10.8  
 9.7  
 (4.1) 
 21.3 

   General and administrative expenses 
 4.8  
 5.0  
 4.8  
 6.1  
 12.3 

  
 80.4  
 82.6  
 85.4  
 6.6  
 5.6 

Operating income 
 19.6  
 17.4  
 14.6  
 23.6  
 30.0 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Other income, net 
 0.5  
 1.4  
 1.6  
 (60.8) 
 (7.8)

  
    
    
    
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 20.1  
 18.8  
 16.2  
 17.4  
 26.2 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Provision for income taxes 
 8.1  
 7.7  
 6.5  
 15.3  
 28.8 

  
    
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net income 
 12.0% 
 11.1% 
 9.7% 
 18.8% 
 24.4%

 

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
 
Revenues for fiscal 2011 increased 10% and
revenues before reimbursements increased 11% as compared to prior year. This growth was due to strong demand for our consulting
services particularly in our mechanics and materials, electrical, thermal, human factors, and engineering management consulting
practices and our health and environmental groups. We experienced strong demand for our consulting services from a diverse set
of clients for both reactive and proactive projects and continued to see elevated levels of activity on a few major assignments.
As a result, utilization increased to 71% as compared to 70% during the prior year.
 
We made progress during fiscal 2011 in several
of our strategic growth areas. In energy consulting, we continued to work on projects for several utilities and oil and gas clients
to assist them with understanding why certain pipeline failures have occurred as well as the evaluation of their pipeline risk
management programs. In design consulting, we experienced an increase in battery consulting activity from a broad set of industries
including consumer electronics, medical devices, automotive, aerospace and battery suppliers. In our environmental and health groups,
we performed in-depth scientific studies to understand both the short- and long-term impact of chemicals in the environment. In
defense technology development we continued to work on improvised explosive device detection technology.
 
During fiscal 2011, technical full time equivalent
employees increased 6.6% as we added new Ph.D.’s from top universities and made several senior hires. 
 
Net income increased 19% and diluted earnings
per share increased to $2.22 as compared to $1.83 last year. We were able to improve profitability and margins by effectively managing
headcount over the past year to align our resources with demand and benefited from some major projects which resulted in improved
utilization and increased leverage of our cost structure.
 


21
 


 
We remain focused on selectively adding top
talent and developing the skills necessary to expand upon our market position, providing clients with in-depth scientific research
and analysis to determine what happened and how to prevent failures or exposures in the future, capitalizing on opportunities in
defense technology development and emerging growth areas, managing other operating expenses, generating cash from operations, maintaining
a strong balance sheet and undertaking activities such as share repurchases to enhance shareholder value. We expect some of our
major assignments to step down from their elevated levels of activity as they move through their project life cycle.
 
OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER
30, 2011
 
Our revenues consist of professional fees
earned on consulting engagements, product sales in our defense technology development practice, fees for use of our equipment
and facilities, and reimbursements for outside direct expenses associated with the services performed that are billed to our
clients.
 
We operate on a 52-53 week fiscal year with
each year ending on the Friday closest to December 31st. The fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010
and January 1, 2010 included 52 weeks of activity.
 
During fiscal 2011, we had a 10% increase
in revenues as compared to fiscal 2010. The increase in revenues was due to an increase in billable hours in our engineering
and other scientific segment and our environmental and health segment and higher billing rates. Billable hours increased 9.0%
to 981,000 during fiscal 2011 as compared to 900,000 during fiscal 2010. The increase in billable hours was due strong demand
for our consulting services across a broad set of practices and elevated levels of activity on several major assignments.
Technical full-time equivalent employees increased 6.6% to 661 during fiscal 2011 as compared to 620 during fiscal 2010 due
to our recruiting and retention efforts which resulted in the addition of several experienced consultants in biomechanics and
atmospheric sciences during fiscal 2011. Utilization increased to 71% for fiscal 2011 as compared to 70% for fiscal 2010. The
increase in utilization was due to elevated levels of activity on several major assignments and our management of headcount
to align resources with anticipated demand. Product sales in defense technology development increased to $12,300,000 during
fiscal 2011 as compared to $12,100,000 during fiscal 2010. Product sales will vary from year to year due to the timing of new
contracts and the delivery dates of products.
 
FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 30, 2011, AND
DECEMBER 31, 2010
 
Revenues
 


 
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Engineering and other scientific 
$199,772  
$184,146  
 8.5%

Percentage of  total revenues 
 73.3% 
 74.0% 
   

Environmental and health 
 72,674  
 64,607  
 12.5%

Percentage of total revenues 
 26.7% 
 26.0% 
   

  
    
    
   

       Total revenues 
$272,446  
$248,753  
 9.5%

 

The increase in revenues for our engineering
and other scientific segment was due to an increase in billable hours and higher billing rates. During fiscal 2011, billable hours
for this segment increased by 8.1% to 693,000 as compared to 641,000 during fiscal 2010. This increase was due to strong demand
for our services. Technical full-time equivalent employees increased 3.9% to 458 during fiscal 2011 from 441 during fiscal 2010
due to our recruiting and retention efforts. Utilization increased to 73% for fiscal 2011 as compared to 70% for fiscal 2010 due
in part to elevated levels of activity on a number of major assignments and our management of headcount to align resources with
anticipated demand. Product sales in defense technology development increased to $12,300,000 during
fiscal 2011 as compared to $12,100,000 during fiscal 2010.
 
The increase in revenues from our environmental
and health segment was due to an increase in billable hours and higher billing rates. The increase in billable hours was due to
strong demand for our services. During fiscal 2011, billable hours for this segment increased by 11.2% to 288,000 as compared to
259,000 during fiscal 2010. Utilization decreased to 68% for fiscal 2011 as compared to 70% for fiscal 2010. The decrease in utilization
was due in part to our investment in hiring experienced consultants during the current year. Technical full-time equivalent employees
increased by 13.4% to 203 during fiscal 2011 as compared to 179 during fiscal 2010.
 
Revenues are primarily derived from services
provided in response to client requests or events that occur without notice and engagements are generally terminable or subject
to postponement or delay at any time by our clients. As a result, backlog at any particular time is small in relation to our quarterly
or annual revenues and is not a reliable indicator of revenues for any future periods.
 


22
 

 

Compensation and Related Expenses
 



 
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Compensation and related expenses 
$156,853  
$144,842  
 8.3%

Percentage of total revenues 
 57.6% 
 58.2% 
   

 


The increase in compensation and related expenses
during fiscal 2011 was due to an increase in payroll, bonuses, and fringe benefits partially offset by the change in the value
of assets associated with our deferred compensation plan. Payroll increased $7,941,000 and fringe benefits increased $1,996,000
due to a 6.6% increase in technical full time equivalent employees and our annual salary increase on April 2, 2011. Bonuses increased
by $4,240,000 due to a corresponding increase in profitability. During fiscal 2011, deferred compensation expense decreased $2,198,000
with a corresponding decrease to other income, net, as compared to fiscal 2010 due to the change in value of assets associated
with our deferred compensation plan. This decrease consisted of a decrease in the value of the plan assets of $273,000 during fiscal
2011 and an increase in the value of the plan assets of $1,925,000 during fiscal 2010. We expect an increase in average technical
full-time equivalent employees during fiscal 2012. Average technical full-time equivalent employees for the fourth quarter of fiscal
2011 were 677. We also expect an increase in compensation expense due to the impact of our annual salary increases which will be
effective at the beginning of the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
 

Other Operating Expenses
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Other operating expenses 
$23,238  
$21,413  
 8.5%

Percentage of total revenues 
 8.5% 
 8.6% 
   

 

Other operating expenses include facilities-related
costs, technical materials, computer-related expenses and depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements.
The increase in other operating expenses was primarily due to an increase in occupancy expenses of $788,000, an increase in computer
expenses of $450,000, and an increase in technical materials of $281,000. The increase in occupancy expenses was due to planned
maintenance activities for our owned facilities and costs associated with the increase in technical full-time equivalent employees.
The increase in computer expenses and technical materials was associated with the increase in technical full-time equivalent employees
and investments in our corporate infrastructure. We expect other operating expenses to grow as we selectively add new talent and
make investments in our corporate infrastructure.
 
Reimbursable Expense
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Reimbursable expenses 
$25,779  
$26,893  
 (4.1)%

Percentage of total revenues 
 9.5% 
 10.8% 
   

 
Reimbursable expenses for fiscal 2011 remained
relatively consistent with fiscal 2010. The amount of reimbursable expenses will vary from year to year depending on the nature
of our projects.
 
General and Administrative Expenses
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

General and administrative expenses 
$13,116  
$12,364  
 6.1%

Percentage of total revenues 
 4.8% 
 5.0% 
   

 

The increase in general and administrative
expenses during fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increase in contributions of $272,000, an increase in travel and meals of $260,000,
an increase in marketing and business development of $178,000, an increase in professional development of $169,000 and several
individually insignificant increases partially offset by a decrease in legal expenses of $552,000. The increase in travel and meals,
marketing and business development, and professional development were due to our continuing investment in employee and business
development activities. The decrease in legal fees was due to a decrease in costs associated with legal claims during fiscal 2011
as compared to fiscal 2010. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase as we selectively add new talent, expand
our business development efforts, and pursue staff development initiatives.
 


23
 


 

Other Income and Expense
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Other income and expense, net 
$1,359  
$3,467  
 (60.8)%

Percentage of total revenues 
 0.5% 
 1.4% 
   

 

Other income and expense, net, consists primarily
of interest income earned on available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, changes in the value of assets associated
with our deferred compensation plan and rental income from leasing excess space in our Silicon Valley facility. During fiscal 2011,
other income, net, decreased $2,198,000 with a corresponding decrease to deferred compensation expenses, as compared to fiscal
2010 due to a change in value of assets associated with our deferred compensation plan. This decrease consisted of a decrease in
the value of the plan assets of $273,000 during fiscal 2011 and an increase in the value of the plan assets of $1,925,000 during
fiscal 2010.
 
Income Taxes
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2011  
2010  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Income taxes 
$22,124  
$19,187  
 15.3%

Percentage of total revenues 
 8.1% 
 7.7% 
   

Effective tax rate 
 40.4% 
 41.1% 
   

 

The increase in income tax expense was due
to a corresponding increase in pre-tax income. The decrease in the effective tax rate was due to a decrease in state taxes as a
result of the mix of income earned in various state jurisdictions.
 
FISCAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010, AND
JANUARY 1, 2010
 
Revenues
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Engineering and other scientific 
$184,146  
$171,757  
 7.2%

Percentage of total revenues 
 74.0% 
 75.4% 
   

Environmental and health 
 64,607  
 56,125  
 15.1%

Percentage of total revenues 
 26.0% 
 24.6% 
   

  
    
    
   

       Total revenues 
$248,753  
$227,882  
 9.2%

 
The increase in revenues for our engineering
and other scientific segment during fiscal 2010 was due to an increase in reimbursable project related costs for consulting projects
in our defense technology development practice, an increase in billable hours and higher billing rates. Reimbursable project related
costs for consulting projects in our defense technology development practice increased 68% to $8,017,000 during fiscal 2010 as
compared to $4,762,000 during fiscal 2009 due to an increase in activity in this practice. During fiscal 2010, billable hours for
this segment increased by 0.5% to 641,000 as compared to 638,000 during fiscal 2009. Technical full-time equivalent employees for
this segment decreased by 4.1% to 441 during fiscal 2010 as compared to 460 during fiscal 2009. Utilization for this segment increased
to 70% for fiscal 2010 as compared to 67% during fiscal 2009. The increase in utilization was due to our management of headcount
to align resources with demand and the benefit of some major projects. Product sales in our defense technology development practice
were $12.1 million for both fiscal 2010 and 2009.
 
The increase in revenues for our environmental
and health segment during fiscal 2010 was driven by an increase in billable hours and higher billing rates. During fiscal 2010,
billable hours for this segment increased by 13.1% to 259,000 as compared to 229,000 during fiscal 2009. The increase in billable
hours was due to an increase in activity in the areas of our business that are related to litigation and regulatory compliance
pertaining to the registration of chemicals. Technical full-time equivalent employees for this segment increased by 4.7% to 179
during fiscal 2010 as compared to 171 during fiscal 2009. Utilization for this segment increased to 70% for fiscal 2010 as compared
to 64% for fiscal 2009. The increase in utilization was due to our management of headcount to align resources with demand and the
benefit of some major projects.
 


24
 


 
Compensation and Related Expenses
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Compensation and related expenses 
$144,842  
$140,107  
 3.4%

Percentage of total revenues 
 58.2% 
 61.5% 
   

 
The increase in compensation and related expenses
during fiscal 2010 was due to an increase in bonus expense partially offset by a decrease in payroll expense. Bonus expense increased
by $5,422,000 due to a corresponding increase in profitability. Payroll expense decreased by $972,000 due to a 1.7% decrease in
technical full time equivalent employees partially offset by our annual salary increases. Included in compensation and related
expenses, with a corresponding increase to other income, net, is the increase in value of assets associated with our deferred compensation
plan of $1,925,000 and $1,891,000 for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively.
 
Other Operating Expenses
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Other operating expenses 
$21,413  
$21,340  
 0.3%

Percentage of total revenues 
 8.6% 
 9.4% 
   

 
Other operating expenses include facilities-related
costs, technical materials, computer-related expenses and depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements.
Other operating expenses remained relatively consistent with the prior year due to our continuing efforts to manage our cost structure
by reducing discretionary spending and negotiating favorable agreements with our vendors.
 
Reimbursable Expenses
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Reimbursable expenses 
$26,893  
$22,168  
 21.3%

Percentage of total revenues 
 10.8% 
 9.7% 
   

 
The increase in reimbursable expenses was primarily
due to an increase in project related costs in our defense technology development practice. The amount of reimbursable expenses
will vary from year to year depending on the nature of our projects.
 
General and Administrative Expenses
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

General and administrative expenses 
$12,364  
$11,005  
 12.3%

Percentage of total revenues 
 5.0% 
 4.8% 
   

 
The increase in general and administrative
expenses during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase in legal expenses of $692,000, an increase in travel and meals of
$563,000, and an increase in contributions of $227,000 partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense of $617,000. The increase
in legal fees was primarily due to the costs associated with legal claims. The increase in travel and meals was due to an increase
in business development activities and a company-wide managers meeting. The decrease in bad debt expense was primarily due to an
improvement in the general macroeconomic climate and the 2009 bankruptcy filings of Chrysler and General Motors.
 
Other Income and Expense
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Other income and expense, net 
$3,467  
$3,759  
 (7.8)%

Percentage of total revenues 
 1.4% 
 1.6% 
   

 
Other income and expense, net, consists primarily
of investment income earned on available cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, rental income from leasing excess space
in our Silicon Valley facility, and changes in the value of assets associated with our deferred compensation plan. The decrease
in other income and expense, net, during fiscal 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in interest income of $416,000 due to lower
short-term interest rates. Included in other income and expense, net, with a corresponding increase to compensation and related
expenses, is the increase in value of assets associated with our deferred compensation plan of $1,925,000 and $1,891,000 for fiscal
2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively.
 


25
 


 
Income Taxes
 


  
Fiscal Years  
Percent 

(In thousands except percentages) 
2010  
2009  
Change 

  
   
   
  

Income taxes 
$19,187  
$14,894  
 28.8%

Percentage of total revenues 
 7.7% 
 6.5% 
   

Effective tax rate 
 41.1% 
 40.2% 
   

 
The increase in income tax expense was due
to a corresponding increase in pre-tax income and an increase in our effective tax rate. The increase in our effective tax rate
was primarily due to a decrease in tax-exempt interest income.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Net cash provided by (used in): 
   
   
  

Operating activities 
$46,596  
$36,052  
$26,816 

Investing activities 
$(29,354) 
$4,930  
$16,136 

Financing activities 
$(39,344) 
$(2,220) 
$(7,760)

 
We financed our business in fiscal 2011 principally
through available cash and cash flows from operating activities. We invest our excess cash in cash equivalents and short-term investments.
At the end of fiscal 2011 we had $109.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments compared to $106.5 million
at the end of the prior year.
 
The increase in net cash provided by operating
activities during fiscal 2011 as compared to the prior year was due to an increase in net income, a smaller increase in accounts
receivable, and a smaller increase in prepaid expenses and other assets partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable and
accrued liabilities. Accounts receivable increased $3,018,000 during fiscal 2011 as compared to an increase of $11,181,000 during
fiscal 2010. The smaller increase in accounts receivable during fiscal 2011 was due improved collections. Prepaid expenses and
other assets increased $1,929,000 during fiscal 2011 as compared to an increase of $8,520,000 during fiscal 2010. The smaller increase
during fiscal 2011 was due to a decrease in inventory of $1,267,000 during fiscal 2011 as compared to an increase of $2,712,000
during fiscal 2010 and a decrease in prepaid taxes of $1,964,000 during fiscal 2011 as compared to an increase of $1,065,000 during
fiscal 2010. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities decreased $997,000 during fiscal 2011 as compared to an increase
of $9,485,000 during fiscal 2010. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities during the fiscal 2011 was due to the
timing of payments to vendors and a decrease in the amount of materials purchased at year end related to projects in our defense
technology development business.
 
The increase in net cash provided by operating
activities during fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was due to an increase in net income, a larger increase in accrued payroll
and employee benefits, a larger increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, an increase in deferred revenue, and an increase
in stock-based compensation partially offset by a larger increase in accounts receivable and an increase in prepaid expenses and
other assets. Accrued payroll and employee benefits increased $8,696,000 during fiscal 2010 as compared to an increase of $507,000
during fiscal 2009. The larger increase in accrued payroll and employee benefits was primarily due to an increase in deferred compensation
and an increase in accrued bonuses driven by a corresponding increase in profitability. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
increased by $9,485,000 during fiscal 2010 as compared to an increase of $714,000 during fiscal 2009. The larger increase in accounts
payable and accrued liabilities was due to an increase in activity in our defense technology development practice and the timing
of payments to our vendors. Deferred revenues increased $1,374,000 during fiscal 2010 as compared to a decrease of $1,414,000 during
fiscal 2009. The increase in deferred revenues was due to an increase in pre-billed projects. Stock-based compensation was $9,257,000
during fiscal 2010 as compared to $7,931,000 during fiscal 2009. The increase in stock-based compensation was due to additional
restricted stock unit grants during fiscal 2010 and an increase in the accrued bonus that we expect to settle with fully vested
restricted stock units. Accounts receivable increased $11,181,000 during fiscal 2010 as compared to an increase of $4,372,000 during
fiscal 2009. The larger increase in accounts receivable was due to an increase in revenues. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased
$8,520,000 during fiscal 2010 as compared to a decrease of $635,000 during fiscal 2009. The larger increase in prepaid expenses
and other assets during fiscal 2010 was due to an increase in deferred compensation, an increase in inventory and an increase in
prepaid income taxes.
 
During fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, net cash
(used in) provided by investing activities primarily related to the purchase and sale or maturity of short-term investments.
 


26
 


 
The increase in cash used in financing activities
during fiscal 2011, as compared to fiscal 2010, was due to an increase in repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase
programs. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2010, as compared to fiscal 2009, was due to a decrease
in repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs.
 
We expect to continue our investing activities,
including capital expenditures. Furthermore, cash reserves may be used to repurchase common stock under our stock repurchase programs
or strategically acquire firms that are complementary to our business.
 
The following schedule summarizes our principal
contractual commitments as of December 30, 2011 (in thousands):
 


  
Operating  
   
   
  

 
lease  
Capital  
Purchase  
  

Fiscal year 
commitments  
leases  
Obligations  
Total 

2012 
$7,257  
$50  
$1,892  
$9,199 

2013 
 5,304  
 49  
 -  
 5,353 

2014 
 4,025  
 48  
 -  
 4,073 

2015 
 2,699  
 -  
 -  
 2,699 

2016 
 1,904  
 -  
 -  
 1,904 

Thereafter 
 1,890  
 -  
 -  
 1,890 

  
$23,079  
$147  
$1,892  
$25,118 

 

The
above table does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $388,000, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 8 of the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on unrecognized tax benefits.


We
maintain a nonqualified deferred compensation plan for the benefit of a select group of highly compensated employees. Vested amounts
due under the plan of $18,756,000 were recorded as a long-term liability on our consolidated balance sheet at December 30, 2011.
Company assets that are earmarked to pay benefits under the plan are held in a rabbi trust and are subject to the claims of our
creditors. As of December 30, 2011, invested amounts under the plan of $18,911,000 were recorded as a long-term asset on our consolidated
balance sheet.

As permitted under Delaware law, we have agreements
whereby we indemnify our officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was serving,
at our request in such capacity. The indemnification period covers all pertinent events and occurrences during the officer’s
or director’s lifetime. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification
agreements is unlimited; however, we have director and officer insurance coverage that reduces our exposure and enables us to recover
a portion of any future amounts paid. We believe the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable
insurance coverage is minimal.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
As part of our ongoing business, we do not
engage in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often
referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities.
 


27
 


 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
Regulation G, conditions for use of Non-Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles ("Non-GAAP") financial measures, and other SEC regulations define and prescribe the conditions
for use of certain Non-GAAP financial information. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's
performance, financial position or cash flow that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included
in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. We closely monitor two financial measures,
EBITDA and EBITDAS, which meet the definition of Non-GAAP financial measures. We define EBITDA as net income before income taxes,
interest income, depreciation and amortization. We define EBITDAS as EBITDA before stock-based compensation. The Company regards
EBITDA and EBITDAS as useful measures of operating performance and cash flow to complement operating income, net income and other
GAAP financial performance measures. Additionally, management believes that EBITDA and EBITDAS provide meaningful comparisons of
past, present and future operating results. These measures are used to evaluate our financial results, develop budgets and determine
employee compensation. These measures, however, should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute or superior to, operating
income, cash flows, or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of the Non-GAAP
measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measure is set forth below.
 
The following table shows EBITDA as a percentage
of revenues before reimbursements for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 


(in thousands, except percentages) 
  

  
Fiscal Years 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Revenues before reimbursements 
$246,667  
$221,860  
$205,714 

  
    
    
   

EBITDA 
$58,994  
$50,833  
$40,759 

  
    
    
   

EBITDA as a % of revenues before reimbursements 
 23.9% 
 22.9% 
 19.8%

 
The increase in EBITDA as a percentage of revenues
before reimbursements for fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010 was primarily due to an increase in utilization and our efforts
to manage our cost structure. Utilization for fiscal 2011 increased to 71% as compared to 70% during fiscal 2010 due to elevated
levels of activity on a few major assignments. The increase in EBITDA as a percentage of revenues before reimbursements for fiscal
2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 was primarily due to an increase in utilization and our efforts to manage our cost structure. Utilization
for fiscal 2010 increased to 70% as compared to 66% during fiscal 2009.
 


28
 


 
The following table is a reconciliation of
EBITDA and EBITDAS to the most comparable GAAP measure, net income, for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 


(in thousands) 
  

  
Fiscal Years 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Net Income 
$32,695  
$27,521  
$22,127 

  
    
    
   

Add back (subtract): 
    
    
   

  
    
    
   

       Income taxes 
 22,124  
 19,187  
 14,894 

       Interest income, net 
 (236) 
 (198) 
 (614)

       Depreciation and amortization 
 4,411  
 4,323  
 4,352 

  
    
    
   

                               EBITDA 
 58,994  
 50,833  
 40,759 

  
    
    
   

       Stock-based compensation 
 10,340  
 9,257  
 7,931 

  
    
    
   

                               EBITDAS 
$69,334  
$60,090  
$48,690 

 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosure About Market Risk
 
Exponent is exposed to interest rate risk associated
with our balances of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment
portfolio primarily consisting of debt instruments with high credit quality and relatively short average effective maturities in
accordance with the Company’s investment policy. The maximum effective maturity of any issue in our portfolio of cash equivalents
and short-term investments is 3 years and the maximum average effective maturity of the portfolio cannot exceed 12 months.
 
If interest rates were to instantaneously increase
or decrease by 100 basis points, the change in the fair value of our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments would
not have a material impact on our financial statements. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio.
Notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risk, there can be no assurances that we will be adequately protected against
the risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
 
We are exposed to some foreign currency exchange
rate risk associated with our foreign operations. Given the limited nature of these operations, we believe that any exposure would
be minimal.
 
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data
 
See
Item 15 of this Form 10-K for required financial statements and supplementary data.

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with
Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
KPMG
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company’s internal control over financial reporting,
as stated in their report which is included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Form 10-K.


(a)Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
 
Under the supervision and with the participation
of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our
disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Rule 13(a)-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this
annual report.
 


29
 


 

(b)Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
 
Our management is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange
Act Rule 13a-15(f). Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control
- Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December
30, 2011.
 

(c)Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
 
There
have not been any changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f)
under the Exchange Act, during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
effect, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. 
Item
9B. Other Information

None.
 
PART III
 
Certain information
required by Part III is omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We intend to file a definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to
Regulation 14A not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and certain
information included therein is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers
and Corporate Governance
 
The information
required by this item with respect to our directors, code of ethics and compliance with section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated
by reference to the sections of the Company’s definitive Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the
"Proxy Statement") entitled "Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors," "Code of Business Conduct and Corporate
Governance" and "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act." See Item 1 for information regarding the executive
officers of the Company. 
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Executive Officer Compensation".
 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
 
The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled "Stock Ownership”
and “Equity Compensation Plan Information".
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence
 
The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled "Related Party Transactions"
and “Proposal No. 1 – Election of Directors”.
 
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
 
The information
required by this item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Principal Accounting Fees
and Services".
 


30
 


 
PART IV
 
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules
 

(a)The following documents are filed as part of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

 

1.Financial Statements




 

 

 
The following consolidated financial statements of Exponent, Inc. and subsidiaries and the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm are included herewith:

 
 
Page

 
 
 

 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
32

 
 
 

 
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010
33

 

 

 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010
34

 
 
 

 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010
35

 
 
 

 
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010
36

 
 
 

 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010
38

 
 
 

 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
39

 

2.Financial Statement Schedules

The
following financial statement schedule of Exponent, Inc. for the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January
1, 2010 is filed as part of this Report and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of Exponent,
Inc. and subsidiaries:



 
 
Page

 
 
 

 
Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
58

 
Schedules
other than those listed above have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise
included elsewhere in the report.


3.Exhibits

 


 

Page

 
 
 


(a)     Exhibit Index
60

 
 
 

 


31
 


 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm 

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Exponent, Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Exponent, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 30, 2011. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we have also
audited the accompanying financial statement schedule II. We also have audited the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 30, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for
these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal
Control over Financial Reporting, appearing under Item 9A(b). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedule II, and an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
A company’s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal
control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Exponent, Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 30, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also, in our opinion, Exponent, Inc. and subsidiaries
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2011, based on the
criteria established in Internal Control – Integrated Framework issued by COSO.
 

KPMG LLP
San Francisco, California
February 24, 2012
 


32
 

 
Exponent, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Income
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands, except per share data) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Revenues: 
   
   
  

Revenues before reimbursements 
$246,667  
$221,860  
$205,714 

Reimbursements 
 25,779  
 26,893  
 22,168 

Revenues 
 272,446  
 248,753  
 227,882 

  
    
    
   

Operating expenses: 
    
    
   

Compensation and related expenses 
 156,853  
 144,842  
 140,107 

Other operating expenses 
 23,238  
 21,413  
 21,340 

Reimbursable expenses 
 25,779  
 26,893  
 22,168 

General and administrative expenses 
 13,116  
 12,364  
 11,005 

  
 218,986  
 205,512  
 194,620 

Operating income 
 53,460  
 43,241  
 33,262 

  
    
    
   

Other income: 
    
    
   

Interest income, net 
 236  
 198  
 614 

Miscellaneous income, net 
 1,123  
 3,269  
 3,145 

Income before income taxes 
 54,819  
 46,708  
 37,021 

  
    
    
   

Provision for income taxes 
 22,124  
 19,187  
 14,894 

Net income 
$32,695  
$27,521  
$22,127 

  
    
    
   

Net income per share: 
    
    
   

Basic 
$2.31  
$1.92  
$1.56 

Diluted 
$2.22  
$1.83  
$1.47 

Shares used in per share computations: 
    
    
   

Basic 
 14,181  
 14,354  
 14,186 

Diluted 
 14,751  
 15,069  
 15,030 

  
    
    
   

See accompanying notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 


33
 


 
Exponent, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands, except par value) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Assets 
   
  

  
   
  

Current assets: 
    
   

Cash and cash equivalents 
$84,439  
$106,549 

Short-term investments 
 25,260  
 - 

Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful account of $2,339 and $2,126, respectively 
 73,065  
 72,034 

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 8,521  
 10,585 

Deferred income taxes 
 7,293  
 5,426 

Total current assets 
 198,578  
 194,594 

  
    
   

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net 
 27,215  
 27,267 

Goodwill 
 8,607  
 8,607 

Deferred income taxes 
 14,692  
 12,940 

Deferred compensation plan assets 
 18,911  
 15,068 

Other assets 
 785  
 416 

  
$268,788  
$258,892 

  
    
   

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity 
    
   

  
    
   

Current liabilities: 
    
   

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 
$6,738  
$9,715 

Accrued payroll and employee benefits 
 48,089  
 41,888 

Deferred revenues 
 5,948  
 6,131 

Total current liabilities 
 60,775  
 57,734 

  
    
   

Other liabilities 
 700  
 413 

Deferred compensation 
 18,756  
 15,068 

Deferred rent 
 1,842  
 1,877 

Total liabilities 
 82,073  
 75,092 

  
    
   

Commitments and contingencies 
    
   

  
    
   

Stockholders’ equity: 
    
   

Preferred stock, $.001 par value; 5,000 shares authorized; no shares outstanding 
 -  
 - 

Common stock, $.001 par value; 100,000 shares authorized; 16,427 shares issued 
 16  
 16 

Additional paid-in capital 
 108,071  
 96,089 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
    
   

Investment securities, available for sale 
 52  
 - 

Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 (523) 
 (451)

  
 (471) 
 (451)

Retained earnings 
 179,432  
 156,086 

Treasury stock, at cost: 3,127 and 2,431 shares held, respectively 
 (100,333) 
 (67,940)

Total stockholders’ equity 
 186,715  
 183,800 

  
$268,788  
$258,892 

  
    
   

See accompanying notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 


34
 


 
Exponent, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Net income 
$32,695  
$27,521  
$22,127 

  
    
    
   

Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax: 
    
    
   

Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax 
 (72) 
 (53) 
 (122)

Unrealized gain (loss) arising during the period on investments, net of tax 
 52  
 (31) 
 100 

Comprehensive income 
$32,675  
$27,437  
$22,105 

  
    
    
   

See accompanying notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.
 


35
 

 
 
Exponent, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity
 


  
   
   
   
Accumulated  
   
   
  

  
   
   
Additional  
other  
   
   
  

  
Common
    Stock  
paid-in  
comprehensive  
Retained  
Treasury
    Stock  
  

(In
    thousands) 
Shares  
Amount  
capital  
income
    (loss)  
earnings  
Shares  
Amount  
Total 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balance at January 2, 2009 
 16,427  
$16  
$72,734  
$(345) 
$127,127  
 2,737  
$(71,438) 
$128,094 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Employee stock purchase plan 
 -  
 -  
 146  
 -  
 -  
 (33) 
 702  
 848 

Exercise of stock options, net of swaps 
 -  
 -  
 (227) 
 -  
 (5,185) 
 (392) 
 8,251  
 2,839 

Tax benefit for stock option plans 
 -  
 -  
 3,282  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,282 

Amortization of unrecognized stock-based compensation 
 -  
 -  
 4,134  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4,134 

Purchase of treasury shares 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 540  
 (13,121) 
 (13,121)

Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (122) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (122)

Grant of restricted stock units to settle
    accrued bonus 
 -  
 -  
 3,739  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,739 

Settlement of restricted stock units 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (4,463) 
 (162) 
 2,614  
 (1,849)

Unrealized gain on investments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 100  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 100 

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 22,127  
 -  
 -  
 22,127 

Balance at January 1, 2010 
 16,427  
$16  
$83,808  
$(367) 
$139,606  
 2,690  
$(72,992) 
$150,071 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Employee stock purchase plan 
 -  
 -  
 125  
 -  
 -  
 (26) 
 671  
 796 

Exercise of stock options, net of swaps 
 -  
 -  
 (82) 
 -  
 (6,059) 
 (330) 
 8,220  
 2,079 

Tax benefit for stock option plans 
 -  
 -  
 3,972  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,972 

Amortization of unrecognized stock-based compensation 
 -  
 -  
 4,724  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4,724 

Purchase of treasury shares 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 244  
 (6,899) 
 (6,899)

Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (53) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (53)

Grant of restricted stock units to settle
    accrued bonus 
 -  
 -  
 3,566  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 3,566 

Settlement of restricted stock units 
 -  
 -  
 (24) 
 -  
 (4,982) 
 (147) 
 3,060  
 (1,946)

Unrealized loss on investments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (31) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (31)

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 27,521  
 -  
 -  
 27,521 

Balance at December 31, 2010 
 16,427  
$16  
$96,089  
$(451) 
$156,086  
 2,431  
$(67,940) 
$183,800 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   


See
accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 


36
 


 


  
   
   
   
Accumulated  
   
   
   
  

  
   
   
Additional  
other  
   
   
   
  

  
Common Stock  
paid-in  
comprehensive  
Retained  
Treasury Stock  
  

(In thousands) 
Shares  
Amount  
capital  
income (loss)  
earnings  
Shares  
Amount  
Total 

  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

Balance at December 31, 2010 
 16,427  
$16  
$96,089  
$(451) 
$156,086  
 2,431  
$(67,940) 
$183,800 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

Employee stock purchase plan 
 -  
 -  
 222  
 -  
 -  
 (21) 
 672  
 894 

Exercise of stock options, net of swaps 
 -  
 -  
 (162) 
 -  
 (1,484) 
 (102) 
 2,982  
 1,336 

Tax benefit for stock option plans 
 -  
 -  
 2,378  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 2,378 

Amortization of unrecognized stock-based compensation 
 -  
 -  
 5,044  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 5,044 

Purchase of treasury shares 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 1,002  
 (40,573) 
 (40,573)

Foreign currency translation adjustments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (72) 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 (72)

Grant of restricted stock units to settle accrued bonus 
 -  
 -  
 4,538  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 4,538 

Settlement of restricted stock units 
 -  
 -  
 (38) 
 -  
 (7,865) 
 (183) 
 4,526  
 (3,377)

Unrealized gain on investments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 52  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 52 

Net income 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 -  
 32,695  
 -  
 -  
 32,695 

Balance at December 30, 2011 
 16,427  
$16  
$108,071  
$(471) 
$179,432  
 3,127  
$(100,333) 
$186,715 

  
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   

See
accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 


37
 



 
Exponent, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  


  
  Fiscal
                                              Years 

(In thousands) 
 2011   
 2010   
 2009  

  
    
    
   

Cash flows from operating activities: 
    
    
   

Net income 
$32,695  
$27,521  
$22,127 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
    
    
   

provided by operating activities: 
    
    
   

Depreciation and amortization of property, equipment 
    
    
   

    and leasehold improvements 
 4,411  
 4,323  
 4,352 

Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts 
    
    
   

    on short-term investments 
 344  
 35  
 170 

Deferred rent expense 
 (417) 
 454  
 (370)

Provision for doubtful accounts 
 1,987  
 1,809  
 3,918 

Stock-based compensation 
 10,340  
 9,257  
 7,931 

Deferred income tax provision 
 (3,663) 
 (3,229) 
 (4,100)

Tax benefit for stock option plans 
 (2,378) 
 (3,972) 
 (3,282)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities: 
    
    
   

Accounts receivable 
 (3,018) 
 (11,181) 
 (4,372)

Prepaid expenses and other assets 
 (1,929) 
 (8,520) 
 635 

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 
 (997) 
 9,485  
 714 

Accrued payroll and employee benefits 
 9,404  
 8,696  
 507 

Deferred revenues 
 (183) 
 1,374  
 (1,414)

Net cash provided by operating activities 
 46,596  
 36,052  
 26,816 

  
    
    
   

Cash flows from investing activities: 
    
    
   

Capital expenditures 
 (3,835) 
 (2,475) 
 (2,017)

Purchase of short-term investments 
 (26,599) 
 -  
 - 

Maturity of short-term investments 
 -  
 7,405  
 18,153 

Sale of short-term investments 
 1,080  
 -  
 - 

Net cash (used in) provided by 
    
    
   

    investing activities 
 (29,354) 
 4,930  
 16,136 

  
    
    
   

Cash flows from financing activities: 
    
    
   

Tax benefit for stock option plans 
 2,378  
 3,972  
 3,282 

Payroll taxes for restricted stock units 
 (3,527) 
 (1,946) 
 (1,849)

Repurchase of common stock 
 (40,573) 
 (7,145) 
 (12,875)

Exercise of share-based payment awards 
 2,378  
 2,899  
 3,682 

Net cash used in financing activities 
 (39,344) 
 (2,220) 
 (7,760)

  
    
    
   

Effect of foreign currency exchange rates on cash 
    
    
   

         and cash equivalents 
 (8) 
 (108) 
 105 

  
    
    
   

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents 
 (22,110) 
 38,654  
 35,297 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
 106,549  
 67,895  
 32,598 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 
$84,439  
$106,549  
$67,895 

  
    
    
   

See accompanying notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 
    
    
   

 


38
 

 
 
Exponent, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 
Note 1: Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies
 
Basis of Presentation

Exponent,
Inc. together with its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Company”) is a science and engineering consulting
firm that provides solutions to complex problems. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

The Company operates on a 52-53 week fiscal
year with each year ending on the Friday closest to December 31st. Fiscal periods 2011, 2010 and 2009 included 52 weeks
of activity and ended on December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010, respectively.
 
Authorized Capital Stock
The Company committed to stockholders in a
letter dated May 23, 2006 to limit its use of the increased authorized capital stock to 40 million common shares, and 2 million
preferred shares, unless the approval of the Company’s stockholders is obtained subsequently, such as through a further amendment
to the Company’s authorized capital stock.
 
Revenue Recognition
The Company derives its revenues primarily
from professional fees earned on consulting engagements, product sales in its defense technology development practice, fees earned
for the use of its equipment and facilities, as well as reimbursements for outside direct expenses associated with the services
that are billed to its clients. Any taxes assessed on revenues relating to services provided to our clients are recorded on a net
basis.
 
The Company reports service revenues net of
subcontractor fees. The Company has determined that it is not the primary obligor with respect to these subcontractors because:
 

·its clients are directly involved in the subcontractor selection process;

·the subcontractor is responsible for fulfilling the scope of work;
and 

·the Company passes through the costs of subcontractor agreements with
only a minimal fixed percentage mark-up to compensate it for processing the transactions.
 
Reimbursements, including those related to
travel and other out-of-pocket expenses, and other similar third party costs such as the cost of materials, are included in revenues,
and an equivalent amount of reimbursable expenses are included in operating expenses. Any mark-up on reimbursable expenses is included
in revenues.
 
Substantially all of the Company’s engagements
are performed under time and material or fixed-price billing arrangements. On time and material and fixed-price projects, revenue
is generally recognized as the services are performed. For substantially all of the Company’s fixed-price engagements, it
recognizes revenue based on the relationship of incurred labor hours at standard rates to its estimate of the total labor hours
at standard rates it expects to incur over the term of the contract. The Company believes this methodology achieves a reliable
measure of the revenue from the consulting services it provides to its customers under fixed-price contracts given the nature of
the consulting services the Company provides and the following additional considerations:
 

·the Company considers labor hours at standard rates and expenses to
be incurred when pricing its contracts;

·the Company generally does not incur set up costs on its contracts;

·the Company does not believe that there are reliable milestones to
measure progress toward completion;

·if the contract is terminated early, the customer is required to pay
the Company for time at standard rates plus materials incurred to date;

·the Company does not recognize revenue for award fees or bonuses until
specific contractual criteria are met;

·the Company does not include revenue for unpriced change orders until
the customer agrees with the changes;

·historically the Company has not had significant accounts receivable
write-offs or cost overruns; and 

·its contracts are typically progress billed on a monthly basis.
 
Product revenue is recognized, when both title
and risk of loss transfer to the customer and customer acceptance has occurred, provided that no significant obligations remain. 
 


39
 


 
Gross revenues and reimbursements for the fiscal
years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010, respectively, were:
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
    
    
   

Gross revenues 
$280,671  
$260,413  
$234,602 

Less: Subcontractor fees 
 8,225  
 11,660  
 6,720 

Revenues 
 272,446  
 248,753  
 227,882 

  
    
    
   

Reimbursements: 
    
    
   

Out-of-pocket reimbursements 
 6,162  
 4,870  
 4,652 

Other outside direct expenses 
 19,617  
 22,023  
 17,516 

  
 25,779  
 26,893  
 22,168 

Revenues before reimbursements 
$246,667  
$221,860  
$205,714 

 
Significant management judgments and estimates
must be made in connection with the revenues recognized in any accounting period. These judgments and estimates include an assessment
of collectibility and, for fixed-price engagements, an estimate as to the total effort required to complete the project. If the
Company made different judgments or utilized different estimates, the amount and timing of its revenue for any period could be
materially different.
 
All consulting contracts are subject to review
by management, which requires a positive assessment of the collectibility of contract amounts. If, during the course of the contract,
the Company determines that collection of revenue is not reasonably assured, it does not recognize the revenue until its collection
becomes reasonably assured, which in those situations would generally be upon receipt of cash. The Company assesses collectibility
based on a number of factors, including past transaction history with the client, as well as the credit-worthiness of the client.
Losses on fixed-price contracts are recognized during the period in which the loss first becomes evident. Contract losses are determined
to be the amount by which the estimated total costs of the contract exceeds the total fixed price of the contract.
 
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. Actual results could
differ from those estimates.
 
Foreign Currency Translation 
The Company translates the assets and liabilities
of foreign subsidiaries, whose functional currency is the local currency, at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
Revenues and expenses are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The adjustment resulting from
translating the financial statements of such foreign subsidiaries is included in accumulated other comprehensive income, which
is reflected as a separate component of stockholders’ equity.
 
Cash Equivalents
Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid investments
such as money market mutual funds, commercial paper and debt securities with original maturities of three months or less.
 
Short-term Investments
Short-term investments consist of debt securities
classified as available-for-sale and are carried at their fair value as of the balance sheet date. Short-term investments generally
mature between three months and three years from the purchase date. Investments with maturities beyond one year are classified
as short-term based on their highly liquid nature and because such marketable securities represent investments readily available
for current operations.
 
The amortized cost of securities is adjusted
for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is included in interest income. Realized
gains or losses are determined on the specific identification method and are reflected in other income. Net unrealized gains and
losses are recorded directly in accumulated other comprehensive income except for unrealized losses that are deemed to be other-than-temporary,
which are reflected in net income.
 
Investments are reviewed on a regular basis
to evaluate whether or not any security has experienced an other-than temporary decline in fair value. When assessing investments
for other-than-temporary declines in fair value, the Company considers the significance of the decline in value as a percentage
of the original cost, how long the market value of the investment has been less than its original cost, and any news that has been
released specific to the investee.
 


40
 


 
Allowances for Doubtful Accounts 
The Company maintains allowances for doubtful
accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of customers to meet their financial obligations. In circumstances where
the Company is aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations a specific allowance is recorded
to reduce the net recognized receivable to the amount the Company reasonably believes will be collected. For all other customers
the Company recognizes allowances for doubtful accounts based upon historical bad debts, customer concentration, customer credit-worthiness,
current economic conditions, aging of amounts due and changes in customer payment terms.
 
Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements
Property, equipment and leasehold improvements
are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line
method. Buildings are depreciated over their estimated useful lives ranging from thirty to forty years. Equipment is depreciated
over its estimated useful life, which generally ranges from two to seven years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter
of their estimated useful lives, generally seven years, or the term of the related lease.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
The
Company evaluates long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount
of the assets to future undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the
assets. The Company has not recognized impairment losses on any long-lived assets in fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009.
 
Goodwill
The Company assesses the impairment of goodwill
annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. The Company’s
annual goodwill impairment review is completed during the fourth quarter of each year. Starting in 2011, the Company evaluates
goodwill for each reporting unit for impairment by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform
the two-step goodwill impairment test. The Company considers events and circumstances, including but not limited to, macroeconomic
conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, changes in management or key personnel,
changes in strategy, changes in customers, a change in the composition or carrying amount of a reporting units net assets and changes
in the price of its common stock. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines that it is
more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then the two-step goodwill impairment
test is not performed.
 
If the two-step goodwill test is performed,
the Company determines the existence of impairment by assessing the fair value of the applicable reporting unit, including goodwill,
using expected future cash flows to be generated by the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its
fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill over
the implied fair value of the goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting
unit in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. The residual fair value after this allocation is the implied value of
the reporting unit goodwill.
 
The Company completed its annual
assessment for all reporting units with goodwill for fiscal 2011 and determined, after assessing the totality of the
qualitative factors, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying
amount. Accordingly there was no indication of impairment and the two-step goodwill impairment test was not performed. The
Company did not recognize any goodwill impairment losses in fiscal years 2011, 2010 or 2009.
 
Deferred Revenues
Deferred revenues represent amounts billed
to clients in advance of services provided, primarily on fixed-price projects. The Company had $5,948,000 and $6,131,000 in deferred
revenues as of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
 
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset
and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences
between the tax basis and the financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using the enacted tax rates and laws in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets
and liabilities from changes in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance
is recorded for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not
be realized. U.S. income taxes are provided on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries unless the subsidiaries earnings are considered
permanently reinvested outside the U.S. An uncertain tax position is recognized if it is determined that it is more likely than
not to be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty
percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company’s policy is to recognize interest and penalties related
to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. Accrued interest and penalties are insignificant at December 30, 2011.
 


41
 


 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Financial instruments consist of cash and cash
equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, other assets and accounts payable. The carrying amount of the Company’s
cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, other assets and accounts payable approximates their fair
values.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
Stock-based compensation is measured at the
grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service
period of the entire award. The Company estimates the number of awards that are expected to vest and revises the estimate as actual
forfeitures differ from that estimate. Estimated forfeiture rates are based on the Company’s historical experience.
 
Net Income Per Share
Basic per share amounts are computed using
the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive per share amounts are computed using the weighted-average
number of common shares outstanding and potentially dilutive securities, using the treasury stock method if their effect would
be dilutive.
 
The following schedule reconciles the denominators
of the Company’s calculation for basic and diluted net income per share:
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Shares used in basic per share computation 
 14,181  
 14,354  
 14,186 

  
    
    
   

Effect of dilutive common stock options outstanding 
 184  
 288  
 460 

  
    
    
   

Effect of unvested restricted stock units outstanding 
 386  
 427  
 384 

  
    
    
   

Shares used in diluted per share computation 
 14,751  
 15,069  
 15,030 

 
There were no options excluded from the diluted
per share calculation for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Common stock options to purchase 60,000
shares with exercise prices greater than the average fair market value of the Company’s common stock, were excluded from
the diluted per share calculation for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2010. The weighted average exercise price for the antidilutive
shares was $31.01 for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2010.
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In September 2011, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08 “Intangibles – Goodwill and Other,” which allows
an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment
test. An entity may assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than
50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If, after assessing the
totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting
unit is less than its carrying amount, then the first and second steps of the goodwill impairment test are not performed. The new
standard is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
2011. Early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted the new standard for its annual impairment assessment during the fourth
quarter of fiscal 2011.
 


42
 


 
Note 2: Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
 
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
consisted of the following as of December 30, 2011:
 


  
Amortized  
Unrealized  
Unrealized  
Estimated 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Gains  
Losses  
Fair Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Classified as current assets: 
   
   
   
  

Cash 
$39,991  
$-  
$-  
$39,991 

  
    
    
    
   

Cash equivalents: 
    
    
    
   

Money market securities 
 44,448  
 -  
 -  
 44,448 

Total cash equivalents 
 44,448  
 -  
 -  
 44,448 

Total cash and cash equivalents 
 84,439  
 -  
 -  
 84,439 

  
    
    
    
   

Short-term investments: 
    
    
    
   

State and municipal bonds 
 25,173  
 91  
 (4) 
 25,260 

Total short-term investments 
 25,173  
 91  
 (4) 
 25,260 

  
    
    
    
   

Total cash, cash equivalents 
    
    
    
   

and short-term investments 
$109,612  
$91  
$(4) 
$109,699 

 
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
consisted of the following as of December 31, 2010:
 


  
Amortized  
Unrealized  
Unrealized  
Estimated 

(In thousands) 
Cost  
Gains  
Losses  
Fair Value 

  
   
   
   
  

Classified as current assets: 
   
   
   
  

Cash 
$41,782  
$-  
$-  
$41,782 

  
    
    
    
   

Cash equivalents: 
    
    
    
   

Money market securities 
 64,767  
 -  
 -  
 64,767 

Total cash equivalents 
 64,767  
 -  
 -  
 64,767 

Total cash and cash equivalents 
 106,549  
 -  
 -  
 106,549 

  
    
    
    
   

Short-term investments: 
    
    
    
   

State and municipal bonds 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

Total short-term investments 
 -  
 -  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Total cash, cash equivalents 
    
    
    
   

and short-term investments 
$106,549  
$-  
$-  
$106,549 

 
All cash equivalents had maturities of three
months or less and short-term investments had maturities of 20 months or less, with an average effective maturity of 0.427 years
as of December 30, 2011.
 


43
 

 
 
Note 3: Fair Value Measurements
 
The Company measures certain
financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including available-for-sale fixed income securities, trading
fixed income and equity securities held in its deferred compensation plan and the liability associated with its deferred compensation
plan. The fair value of these certain financial assets and liabilities was determined using the following inputs at December 30,
2011 (in thousands):
 


  
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using 

  
Total  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

Assets 
   
   
   
  

Money market securities (1) 
$44,448  
$44,448  
$-  
$- 

  
    
    
    
   

Fixed income available for sale securities (2) 
 25,260  
 -  
 25,260  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Fixed income trading securities held in deferred compensation plan (3) 
 7,456  
 7,456  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Equity trading securities held in deferred compensation plan (3) 
 12,626  
 12,626  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$89,790  
$64,530  
$25,260  
$- 

  
    
    
    
   

Liabilities 
    
    
    
   

Deferred compensation plan (4) 
 19,927  
 19,927  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$19,927  
$19,927  
$-  
$- 

 

(1)Included in cash and cash equivalents on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.

(2)Included in short-term investments on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.

(3)Included in other current assets and deferred compensation plan assets on the Company’s consolidated
balance sheet.

(4)Included in accrued liabilities and deferred compensation on the Company’s consolidated balance
sheet.
 

44
 


  
The fair value of these certain
financial assets and liabilities was determined using the following inputs at December 31, 2010 (in thousands):
 


 
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using 

 
Total  
Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1)  
Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2)  
Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 

Assets 
   
   
   
  

Money market securities (1)  
$64,767   
$64,767  
$-  
$- 

  
    
    
    
   

Fixed income trading securities held in deferred compensation plan (2) 
 4,956  
 4,956  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Equity trading securities held in deferred compensation plan (2) 
 10,423  
 10,423  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$80,146  
$80,146  
$-  
$- 

  
    
    
    
   

Liabilities 
    
    
    
   

Deferred compensation plan (3) 
 15,379  
 15,379  
 -  
 - 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
$15,379  
$15,379  
$-  
$- 

 

(1)Included in cash and cash equivalents on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.

(2)Included in other current assets and deferred compensation plan assets on the Company’s consolidated
balance sheet.

(3)Included in accrued liabilities and deferred compensation on the Company’s consolidated balance
sheet.
 
Fixed income available-for-sale securities
as of December 30, 2011 represent primarily obligations of state and local government agencies. Fixed income and equity trading
securities represent mutual funds held in the Company’s deferred compensation plan. See Note 12 for additional information
about the Company’s deferred compensation plan. There were no available-for-sale investments as of December 31, 2010.
 
At December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
the Company did not have any assets or liabilities valued using significant unobservable inputs.
 
The carrying amount of the Company’s
accounts receivable, other assets and accounts payable approximates their fair values. There were no other-than-temporary impairments
or credit losses related to available-for-sale securities during the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January
1, 2010.
 


45
 


 
Note 4: Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements
 


  
 Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
 2011  
 2010 

  
    
   

Property: 
    
   

Land 
$4,450  
$4,450 

Buildings 
 33,983  
 33,727 

Construction in progress 
 134  
 40 

Equipment: 
    
   

Machinery and equipment 
 27,142  
 25,118 

Office furniture and equipment 
 6,457  
 5,861 

Leasehold improvements 
 9,498  
 9,233 

  
 81,664  
 78,429 

  
    
   

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 54,449  
 51,162 

  
    
   

Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net 
$27,215  
$27,267 

 
Depreciation and amortization for the fiscal
years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010, was $4,411,000, $4,323,000 and $4,352,000, respectively.
 
Note 5: Goodwill
 
Below is a breakdown of goodwill, reported
by segment as of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 


  
Environmental  
Engineering and  
  

(In thousands) 
and health  
other scientific  
Total 

  
    
    
   

Goodwill 
$8,099  
$508  
$8,607 

 
There were no changes in the carrying amount
of goodwill for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010. There were no goodwill impairments
or gains or losses on disposals for any portion of the Company’s reporting units during the fiscal year ended December 30,
2011.
 


46
 


 
Note 6: Inventory
 
At December 30, 2011 the Company had $739,000
and $849,000 of finished goods and raw materials inventory, respectively, included in prepaid expenses and other current assets
on its consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2010, the Company had $1,630,000 and $1,225,000 of finished goods and raw materials
inventory, respectively. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market using the specific identification method.
 
Note 7: Other Significant Balance Sheet Components
 
Account receivable, net
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Billed accounts receivable 
$50,338  
$47,198 

Unbilled accounts receivable 
 25,066  
 26,962 

Allowance for doubtful 
    
   

   accounts 
 (2,339) 
 (2,126)

   Total accounts receivable, net 
$73,065  
$72,034 

 
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Accounts payable 
$4,215  
$6,966 

Accrued liabilities 
 2,523  
 2,749 

   Total accounts payable and other accrued liabilities 
$6,738  
$9,715 

 
Accrued payroll and employee benefits
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Accrued bonuses payable 
$29,736  
$25,485 

Accrued 401(k) contributions 
 6,175  
 5,753 

Accrued vacation 
 7,267  
 6,586 

Other accrued payroll and employee benefits 
 4,911  
 4,064 

   Total accrued payroll and employee benefits 
$48,089  
$41,888 

 
Other accrued payroll and employee benefits
consist primarily of accrued wages, payroll taxes and disability insurance programs.\
 
Note 8: Income Taxes
 
Income before income taxes includes income
from foreign operations of $2,361,000, $2,995,000 and $1,269,000 for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Total
income tax expense for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010 consisted
of the following:
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Current 
   
   
  

   Federal 
$20,544  
$17,383  
$14,932 

   Foreign 
 656  
 758  
 320 

   State 
 4,587  
 4,275  
 3,742 

  
 25,787  
 22,416  
 18,994 

Deferred 
    
    
   

   Federal 
 (3,013) 
 (2,474) 
 (3,353)

   State 
 (650) 
 (755) 
 (747)

  
 (3,663) 
 (3,229) 
 (4,100)

       Total 
$22,124  
$19,187  
$14,894 

 
The Company’s effective tax rate differs
from the statutory federal tax rate of 35% as shown in the following schedule:
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Tax at federal statutory rate 
$19,187  
$16,347  
$12,957 

State taxes, net of federal 
    
    
   

   benefit 
 2,568  
 2,361  
 1,881 

Tax exempt interest income 
 (74) 
 (62) 
 (210)

Non-deductible expenses 
 240  
 205  
 170 

Non-deductible stock-based compensation 
 12  
 34  
 54 

Other 
 191  
 302  
 42 

   Tax expense 
$22,124  
$19,187  
$14,894 

  
    
    
   

Effective tax rate 
 40.4% 
 41.1% 
 40.2%

 


47
 


 
The tax effects of temporary differences that
give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 30, 2011 and December 31,
2010 are presented in the following schedule:
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Deferred tax assets: 
   
  

   Accrued liabilities and allowances 
$13,288  
$11,786 

   Deferred compensation 
 13,916  
 11,448 

Total deferred tax assets 
 27,204  
 23,234 

  
    
   

Deferred tax liabilities: 
    
   

   State taxes 
 (1,095) 
 (1,289)

   Deductible goodwill 
 (2,724) 
 (2,490)

   Property, equipment and leasehold improvements 
 (866) 
 (217)

   Other 
 (534) 
 (872)

Total deferred tax liabilities 
 (5,219) 
 (4,868)

Net deferred tax assets 
$21,985  
$18,366 

 
Management believes it is more likely than
not that the results of future operations will generate sufficient taxable income to realize the net deferred tax assets.
 
The Company is entitled to a deduction for
federal and state tax purposes with respect to employees’ stock award activity. The net deduction in taxes otherwise payable
arising from that deduction has been credited to additional paid-in capital. For the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December
31, 2010 and January 1, 2010, the net deduction in tax payable arising from employees’ stock award activity was $2,378,000,
$3,972,000 and $3,282,000 respectively.
 
The Company and its subsidiaries file income
tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction, California and various other state and foreign jurisdictions. The Company
is no longer subject to United States federal income tax examination for years prior to 2008. The Company is no longer subject
to California franchise tax examinations for years prior to 2007. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to state
and local or non-United States income tax examination by tax authorities for years prior to 2007.
 
At December 30, 2011, the Company had unrecognized
tax benefits of $388,000, which primarily related to uncertainty regarding the sustainability of certain deductions taken on the
Company’s federal and state income tax returns. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax
benefits is as follows (in thousands):
 


Balance at January 1, 2010 
 324,000 

Additions based on tax positionsrelated to the current year 
 83,000 

Additions for tax positions of prior years 
 3,000 

Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations 
 (34,000)

Settlements 
 - 

  
   

Balance at December 31, 2010 
$376,000 

  
   

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year 
 83,000 

Additions for tax positions of prior years 
 - 

Reductions due to lapse of statute of limitations 
 (55,000)

Reductions due to change in accounting method  
 (16,000)

Settlements 
 - 

  
   

Balance at December 30, 2011 
$388,000 

 
Unrecognized tax benefits are included in other
liabilities in the accompanying balance sheet. To the extent these unrecognized tax benefits are ultimately recognized, they will
impact the effective tax rate in a future period. There are no uncertain tax positions whose resolution in the next 12 months is
expected to materially affect operating results.
 
Deferred income taxes have not been provided
on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The amount of such earnings at December 30, 2011 was $2,184,000. These earnings
have been permanently reinvested and the Company does not plan to initiate any action that would precipitate the payment of income
taxes thereon. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of additional tax that might be payable on the undistributed foreign
earnings.
 


48
 


 
Note 9: Stockholders’ Equity
 
Preferred Stock
The Company has authorized 5,000,000 shares
of undesignated preferred stock with a par value of $0.001 per share. The Company committed to stockholders in a letter dated May
23, 2006 to limit its use to 2,000,000 preferred shares, unless the approval of the Company’s stockholders is obtained subsequently,
such as through a further amendment to the Company’s authorized capital stock. None of the preferred shares were issued and
outstanding at December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010.
 
Treasury Stock
Net losses related to the re-issuance of
treasury stock to settle restricted stock unit and stock option awards of $9,349,000, $11,041,000 and $9,648,000 were recorded
as a reduction to retained earnings during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Repurchase of Common Stock 
The Company repurchased 1,002,000 shares of
its common stock for $40,573,000 during the fiscal year ended December 30, 2011. The Company repurchased 244,000 shares of its
common stock for $6,899,000 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. The Company repurchased 540,000 shares of its common
stock for $13,121,000 during the fiscal year ended January 1, 2010. On May 25, 2011 the Board of Directors authorized an additional
$35.0 million for the repurchase of Exponent’s common stock. As of December 30, 2011, the Company had remaining authorization
under its stock repurchase plan of $9,406,000 to repurchase shares of common stock.
 

Note 10: Stock-Based Compensation
 
On May 29, 2008, the Company’s stockholders
approved the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan and the 2008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). The 2008 Equity Incentive
Plan and ESPP were previously adopted by the Company’s Board of Directors on April 8, 2008, subject to stockholder approval.
Upon stockholder approval of the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan and ESPP each of the following plans were terminated: the 1999 Stock
Option Plan, the Restricted Stock Award Plan, the 1998 Stock Option Plan and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan established in 1992.
 
The 2008 Equity Incentive Plan allows for the
award of stock options, stock awards (including stock units, stock grants and stock appreciation rights or other similar equity
awards) and cash awards to officers, employees, consultants and non-employee members of the Board of Directors. The total number
of shares reserved for issuance under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan is 1,869,720 shares of common stock, subject to adjustment
resulting from a stock split or the payment of a stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares
of the Company’s stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company. As of December 30, 2011, 905,442 shares
were available for grant under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan.
 

The ESPP allows for officers and employees
to purchase common stock through payroll deductions of up to 15% of a participant’s eligible compensation. Shares of common
stock are purchased under the ESPP at 95% of the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on each purchase date. Subject
to adjustment resulting from a stock split or the payment of a stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the number of
issued shares of the Company’s stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, the total number of shares
reserved for issuance under the ESPP was 200,000 shares of common stock. As of December 30, 2011, 101,838 shares were available
for grant. Weighted average purchase prices for shares sold under all ESPP plans in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $41.70, $30.72
and $25.46, respectively.
 

Restricted Stock Units
The Company grants restricted stock units
to employees and outside directors. These restricted stock unit grants are designed to attract and retain employees, and to better
align employee interests with those of the Company’s stockholders. For a select group of employees, up to 40% of their annual
bonus is settled with fully vested restricted stock unit awards. Under these fully vested restricted stock unit awards, the holder
of each award has the right to receive one share of the Company’s common stock for each fully vested restricted stock unit
four years from the date of grant. Each individual who received a fully vested restricted stock unit award is granted a matching
number of unvested restricted stock unit awards. These unvested restricted stock unit awards cliff vest four years from the date
of grant, at which time the holder of each award will have the right to receive one share of the Company’s common stock
for each restricted stock unit award, provided the holder of each award has met certain employment conditions. In the case of
retirement at 59 ½ years or older, all unvested restricted stock unit awards will continue to vest provided the holder
of each award does all consulting work through the Company and does not become an employee for a past or present client, beneficial
party or competitor of the Company.
 


49
 


 
The
value of these restricted stock unit awards is determined based on the market price of the Company’s common stock on the
date of grant. The value of fully vested restricted stock unit awards issued is recorded as a reduction to accrued bonuses. The
portion of bonus expense that the Company expects to settle with fully vested restricted stock unit awards is recorded as stock-based
compensation during the period the bonus is earned. For the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January
1, 2010, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense associated with accrued bonus awards of $5,295,000, $4,533,000
and $3,797,000, respectively.

The
Company recorded stock-based compensation expense associated with the unvested restricted stock unit awards of $4,464,000, $4,077,000
and $3,467,000 during the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010, respectively.

The number of restricted stock unit awards
outstanding as of December 30, 2011 is as follows(1):
 


  
Number  
Weighted- 

  
of awards  
average 

  
outstanding  
fair value 

  
   
  

Balance as of January 2, 2009 
 489,100   
$19.78  

   Awards granted 
 337,867  
 24.14 

   Awards vested 
 (284,423) 
 19.00 

   Awards cancelled 
 (8,307) 
 17.71 

  
    
   

Balance as of January 1, 2010 
 534,237  
$23.00 

   Awards granted 
 265,894  
 28.78 

   Awards vested 
 (241,916) 
 23.26 

   Awards cancelled 
 (2,833) 
 26.73 

  
    
   

Balance as of December 31, 2010 
 555,382  
$25.64 

   Awards granted 
 249,997  
 38.59 

   Awards vested 
 (260,064) 
 28.29 

   Awards cancelled 
 (2,981) 
 29.58 

  
    
   

Balance as of December 30, 2011 
 542,334  
$30.32 

 
(1) Does not include employee stock
purchase or stock option plans.
 

Stock Options
The Company currently grants stock options
under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan. Options are granted for terms of ten years and generally vest ratably over a four-year period
from the grant date. The Company grants options at exercise prices equal to the fair value of the Company’s common stock
on the date of grant. During the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010, the Company recorded
stock-based compensation expense of $34,000, $31,000 and $56,000, respectively, associated with stock options granted prior to,
but not yet vested as of December 30, 2005. During the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010,
the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $547,000, $616,000 and $611,000, respectively, associated with stock options
granted after December 30, 2005.
 


50
 


 

Option activity is as follows(1):
 


  
   
   
Weighted-  
Aggregate 

  
   
Weighted-  
average  
intrinsic 

  
Number  
average  
remaining  
value 

  
of shares  
exercise  
contractual  
(in 

  
outstanding  
price  
term (years)  
thousands) 

  
    
    
    
   

Balance as of January 2, 2009 
 1,188,299  
$10.10  
    
   

   Options granted 
 30,000  
 23.07  
    
   

   Options cancelled 
 -  
 -  
    
   

   Options exercised 
 (401,190) 
 7.73  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Balance as of January 1, 2010 
 817,109  
$11.74  
    
   

   Options granted 
 42,500  
 25.96  
    
   

   Options cancelled 
 -  
 -  
    
   

   Options exercised 
 (348,469) 
 7.67  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Balance as of December 31, 2010 
 511,140  
$15.69  
    
   

   Options granted 
 30,000  
 37.72  
    
   

   Options cancelled 
 -  
 -  
    
   

   Options exercised 
 (105,744) 
 14.07  
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Balance as of December 30, 2011 
 435,396  
$17.60  
 4.31  
$12,353 

Vested and expected to vest as of December 30, 2011 
 426,418  
$17.43  
 4.25  
$12,172 

  
    
    
    
   

Exercisable at December 30, 2011 
 331,518  
$14.31  
 3.36  
$10,497 

 
(1) Does not include restricted
stock or employee stock purchase plans
 
The total intrinsic value of options exercised
during the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010 was $2,994,687, $8,086,064 and $7,673,830,
respectively. The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between
the Company’s closing stock price on the last trading day of the fiscal year ended December 30, 2011, and the exercise price,
multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised
their options on December 30, 2011. This amount changes based on the fair-value of the Company’s stock.
  

Information regarding options outstanding at
December 30, 2011 is summarized below:
 


  
Outstanding  
Exercisable 

  
   
Weighted-  
Weighted-  
   
Weighted 

  
Number  
average  
Average  
Number  
average 

Range of 
of  
remaining  
Exercise  
of  
exercise 

exercise price 
options  
life in years  
Price  
shares  
price 

  
   
   
   
   
  

$5.89-7.02 
 104,396  
 1.01  
$6.88  
 104,396  
$6.88 

$11.31-11.31 
 40,000  
 2.20  
$11.31  
 40,000  
$11.31 

$12.02-15.65 
 91,000  
 3.40  
$13.48  
 79,000  
$13.64 

$18.37-25.96 
 132,500  
 6.57  
$22.42  
 85,622  
$20.99 

$31.01-$37.72 
 67,500  
 7.44  
$33.99  
 22,500  
$31.01 

  
 435,396  
 4.31  
$17.60  
 331,518  
$14.31 


 


51
 


 
The Company uses the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model to determine the fair value of options granted. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payment awards on the
date of grant using an option-pricing model is affected by the Company’s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a
number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include expected stock price volatility over the term of the award,
actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, the risk-free interest rate and expected dividends.
 
The Company used historical exercise and post-vesting
forfeiture and expiration data to estimate the expected term of options granted. The historical volatility of the Company’s
common stock over a period of time equal to the expected term of the options granted was used to estimate expected volatility.
The risk-free interest rate used in the option-pricing model was based on United States Treasury zero coupon issues with remaining
terms similar to the expected term on the options. The Company does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable
future and therefore used an expected dividend yield of zero in the option-pricing model. The Company is required to estimate forfeitures
at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Historical
data was used to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and stock-based compensation expense was recorded only for those awards
that are expected to vest. All share based payment awards are recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods
of the awards.
 
The assumptions used to value option grants
for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010 are as follows:
 



  
Stock Option Plan 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Expected life (in years) 
 6.5  
 6.6  
 6.6 

Risk-free interest rate 
 3.1% 
 3.2% 
 2.1%

Volatility 
 39% 
 40% 
 40%

Dividend yield 
 0% 
 0% 
 0%

 
The weighted-average fair value of options
granted during the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010 and January 1, 2010 were $16.51, $11.70 and $10.02,
respectively.
 

The amount of stock-based compensation expense
recognized in the Company’s consolidated statements of income for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011, December 31,
2010 and January 1, 2010 is as follows:
 



  
2011  
2010  
2009 

(In thousands) 
   
   
  

Compensation and related expenses: 
   
   
  

   Restricted stock units 
$9,402  
$8,257  
$6,993 

   Stock option grants 
 581  
 647  
 667 

               Sub-total 
 9,983  
 8,904  
 7,660 

  
    
    
   

General and administrative expenses: 
    
    
   

   Restricted stock units 
 357  
 353  
 271 

               Sub-total 
 357  
 353  
 271 

Total stock-based compensation expense 
$10,340  
$9,257  
$7,931 

 

As of December 30, 2011, there was $4.2 million
of unrecognized compensation cost, expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.3 years, related to unvested restricted
stock unit awards and $0.8 million of unrecognized compensation cost, expected to be recognized over a weighted average period
of 2.4 years, related to unvested stock options. Total unrecognized compensation costs will be adjusted for future changes in estimated
forfeitures.
 


52
 


 
A summary of the Company’s unvested stock
options is as follows:
 


  
Unvested  
Weighted- 

  
options  
average 

  
outstanding  
fair value 

  
   
  

Balance of unvested stock options as of January 2, 2009 
 224,000  
$8.70 

   Options granted 
 30,000  
 10.02 

   Options vested 
 (90,250) 
 8.04 

   Options forfeited 
 -  
 - 

Balance of unvested stock options as of January 1, 2010 
 163,750  
$9.31 

   Options granted 
 42,500  
 11.70 

   Options vested 
 (70,250) 
 8.19 

   Options forfeited 
 -  
 - 

Balance of unvested stock options as of December 31, 2010 
 136,000  
$10.64 

   Options granted 
 30,000  
 16.51 

   Options vested 
 (62,122) 
 10.23 

   Options forfeited 
 -  
 - 

Balance of unvested stock options as of December 30, 2011 
 103,878  
$12.58 

 
Note 11: Retirement Plans
 
The
Company provides a 401(k) plan for its employees whereby the Company contributes to each eligible employee’s 401(k) account
7% of the employee’s eligible base salary plus overtime. The employee does not need to make a contribution to the plan to
be eligible for the Company’s 7% contribution. To be eligible under the plan, an employee must be at least 21 years of age
and be either a full-time or part-time salaried employee. The 7% Company contribution will vest 20% per year for the first 5 years
of employment and then immediately thereafter. The Company’s expenses related to this plan were $6,148,000, $5,598,000, and
$5,744,000 in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
 
Note 12: Deferred Compensation Plan
 
The Company maintains a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan for the benefit of a select group of highly compensated employees. Under this plan participants may elect to
defer up to 100% of their compensation. Company assets that are earmarked to pay benefits under the plan are held in a rabbi trust
and are subject to the claims of the Company’s creditors. As of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the invested amounts
under the plan totaled $20,082,000 and $15,379,000, respectively. These assets are classified as trading securities and are recorded
at fair market value with changes recorded as adjustments to other income and expense.
 
As of December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
vested amounts due under the plan totaled $19,927,000 and $15,379,000, respectively. Changes in the liability are recorded as adjustments
to compensation expense. During the fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized compensation expense of $(273,000),
$1,925,000 and $1,891,000 respectively, as a result of changes in the market value of the trust assets with the same amount being
recorded as other income, net.
 
Note 13: Commitments and Contingencies
 
The following is a summary of the future minimum
payments, required under non-cancelable operating leases, with terms in excess of one year, as of December 30, 2011:
 


(In thousands) 
  

  
Lease 

Fiscal year 
commitments 

2012 
$7,257 

2013 
 5,304 

2014 
 4,025 

2015 
 2,699 

2016 
 1,904 

Thereafter 
 1,890 

  
$23,079 

 
Total
rent expense from property leases in fiscal 2011, 2010, and 2009
was $5,180,000, $5,030,000 and $4,941,000, respectively. Total expense from other operating leases and commitments in fiscal 2011,
2010, and 2009 was $1,477,000, $1,400,000 and $1,549,000, respectively.
The Company had $1,892,000 in outstanding purchase commitments as of December 30, 2011. These commitments are expected to be fulfilled
by the end of fiscal 2012.
 


53
 


 
In July of 2008, the Company was served with
a writ by a former client.  The writ did not articulate a claim.  The Company met with the former client in November
of 2008 and again in January of 2009 and learned in those discussions of potential claims against the Company arising out of the
testimony delivered by one of the Company’s employees. The former client claims that this testimony contributed to an adverse
verdict against them. Given the uncertainty as to whether the claimant will choose to pursue one or more claims against the Company,
and the nature of the potential claims against the Company, an estimated loss cannot be determined at this time.  The Company
believes it has a strong defense against all such potential claims and intends to vigorously defend itself.  Further, the
Company believes that some of the potential claims would be covered by insurance.  Although the Company’s ultimate liability
in this matter (if any) cannot be determined, based upon information currently available, the Company believes, after consultation
with legal counsel, the ultimate resolution of these potential claims will not have a material adverse effect on its financial
condition, results of operations or liquidity.
 
In addition to the above matters, the Company
is a party to various other legal actions from time to time and may be contingently liable in connection with claims and contracts
arising in the normal course of business, the outcome of which the Company believes, after consultation with legal counsel, will
not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. All legal costs associated with
litigation are expensed as incurred.
 
Note 14: Other Income, Net
 
Interest and other income, net, consisted of the following:




  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Interest income 
$237  
$199  
$617 

Interest expense 
 (1) 
 (1) 
 (3)

Rental income 
 1,310  
 1,390  
 1,405 

Gain (loss) on deferred compensation investments 
 (273) 
 1,925  
 1,891 

Gain (loss) on foreign exchange 
 70  
 (69) 
 (298)

Other 
 16  
 23  
 147 

Total 
$1,359  
$3,467  
$3,759 

 
Note 15: Industry and Client Credit Risk
 
The Company serves clients in various segments
of the economy. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 the Company provided services representing approximately 10%, 13% and 12%, respectively,
of revenues to clients and to organizations and insurers acting on behalf of clients in the transportation industry. During fiscal
2011, 2010 and 2009 the Company derived approximately 15%, 15% and 12%, respectively, of revenues from U.S. federal, state and
local government agencies and contractors.
 
No single customer comprised more than 10%
of the Company’s revenues for the years ended December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The Company derived 10% of revenues
from agencies of the U.S. federal government for the year ended January 1, 2010. Agencies of the U.S. federal government comprised
12% of the Company’s accounts receivable at December 30, 2011. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Company’s
accounts receivable at December 31, 2010.
 


54
 


 
Note 16: Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
The following is supplemental disclosure of cash flow information:
 


  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

Cash paid during the year: 
   
   
  

   Income taxes 
$21,669  
$19,465  
$15,297 

  
    
    
   

Non-cash investing and    financing activities: 
    
    
   

   Capital leases for equipment 
$142  
$-  
$- 

   Unrealized gain (loss) on investments 
$52  
$(31) 
$100 

   Vested stock unit awards granted to settle accrued bonus 
$4,538  
$3,566  
$3,739 

   Stock repurchases payable to broker 
$-  
$-  
$246 

 
Note 17: Segment Reporting
 
The Company reports two operating segments
based on two primary areas of service. One operating segment is a broad service group providing technical consulting in different
practices primarily in the areas of engineering and technology development. The Company’s other operating segment provides
services in the area of environmental, epidemiology and health risk analysis. This operating segment provides a wide range of consulting
services relating to environmental hazards and risks and the impact on both human health and the environment.
 
Segment information is presented for selected
data from the statements of income and statements of cash flows for fiscal years 2011, 2010, and 2009. Segment information for
selected data from the balance sheets is presented for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The chief
operating decision maker does not review total assets in his evaluation of segment performance and capital allocation.
 


Revenues

  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Engineering and other scientific 
$199,772  
$184,146  
$171,757 

Environmental and health 
 72,674  
 64,607  
 56,125 

  
    
    
   

       Total revenues 
$272,446  
$248,753  
$227,882 

 


Operating Income 
   
  

  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Engineering and other scientific 
$57,779  
$49,182  
$41,407 

Environmental and health 
 22,367  
 20,801  
 15,922 

  
    
    
   

Total segment operating income 
 80,146  
 69,983  
 57,329 

Corporate operating expense 
 (26,686) 
 (26,742) 
 (24,067)

  
    
    
   

Total operating income 
$53,460  
$43,241  
$33,262 

  
    
    
   

 


Capital Expenditures

  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Engineering and other scientific 
$2,489  
$1,706  
$1,249 

Environmental and health 
 313  
 209  
 161 

  
    
    
   

Total segment capital expenditures 
 2,802  
 1,915  
 1,410 

  
    
    
   

Corporate capital expenditures 
 1,033  
 560  
 607 

  
    
    
   

       Total capital expenditures 
$3,835  
$2,475  
$2,017 

  
    
    
   

 


Depreciation and Amortization

  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Engineering and other scientific 
$2,700  
$2,730  
$2,820 

Environmental and health 
 227  
 195  
 195 

 Total segment depreciation and amortization 
 2,927  
 2,925  
 3,015 

  
    
    
   

Corporate depreciation and amortization 
 1,484  
 1,398  
 1,337 

  
    
    
   

       Total depreciation and amortization 
$4,411  
$4,323  
$4,352 

  
    
    
   

 


55
 


 
Information regarding the Company’s operations in different
geographical areas:
 


Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements, net

  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

United States 
$26,953  
$27,033 

Foreign Countries 
 262  
 234 

  
    
   

       Total 
$27,215  
$27,267 

 


Revenues (1) 
  

  
Fiscal Years 

(In thousands) 
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

United States 
$239,994  
$220,527  
$211,562 

Foreign Countries 
 32,452  
 28,226  
 16,320 

  
    
    
   

       Total 
$272,446  
$248,753  
$227,882 

 
(1) 	Geographic revenues are
allocated based on the location of the client.
 
Note 18: Subsequent Event
 
On February 9, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors
authorized an additional $35 million for the repurchase of the Company’s common stock.
 


56
 


 
Comparative Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
 
Summarized quarterly financial data is as follows:



  
   
   
   
  

Fiscal 2011 
April 1,  
July 1,  
September 30,  
December 30, 

(In thousands, except per share data) 
2011  
2011  
2011  
2011 

  
   
   
   
  

Revenues before reimbursements 
$64,183  
$60,573  
$61,387  
$60,524 

Revenues 
 73,473  
 65,106  
 65,951  
 67,916 

Operating income 
 12,366  
 13,377  
 16,524  
 11,193 

Income before income taxes 
 13,379  
 13,960  
 14,400  
 13,080 

  
    
    
    
   

Net income 
$8,003  
$8,217  
$8,744  
$7,731 

  
    
    
    
   

Net income per share 
    
    
    
   

   Basic 
$0.55  
$0.57  
$0.63  
$0.56 

   Diluted 
$0.53  
$0.55  
$0.60  
$0.54 

Shares used in per share computations 
    
    
    
   

   Basic 
 14,532  
 14,402  
 13,975  
 13,775 

   Diluted 
 15,140  
 14,971  
 14,554  
 14,322 

  
    
    
    
   

  
    
    
    
   

Fiscal 2010 
 April 2,  
 July 2,  
 October 1,  
 December 31, 

(In thousands, except per share data) 
 2010  
 2010  
 2010  
 2010 

  
    
    
    
   

Revenues before reimbursements 
$55,201  
$55,128  
$56,906  
$54,625 

Revenues 
 59,406  
 60,439  
 66,306  
 62,602 

Operating income 
 9,507  
 12,775  
 11,570  
 9,389 

Income before income taxes 
 10,530  
 12,281  
 13,203  
 10,694 

  
    
    
    
   

Net income 
$6,239  
$7,280  
$7,820  
$6,182 

  
    
    
    
   

Net income per share 
    
    
    
   

   Basic 
$0.44  
$0.51  
$0.54  
$0.43 

   Diluted 
$0.42  
$0.48  
$0.52  
$0.41 

Shares used in per share computations 
    
    
    
   

   Basic 
 14,212  
 14,377  
 14,385  
 14,443 

   Diluted 
 14,940  
 15,054  
 15,053  
 15,094 

 


57
 


 
Schedule
II
Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts 
 


  
   
Additions  
 Deletions (1)  
  

  
   
   
   
Accounts  
  

  
Balance at  
Provision  
Provision  
Written-off  
Balance 

  
Beginning of  
Charged to  
Charged to  
Net of  
at End of 

(In thousands) 
Year  
Expense  
Revenues  
Recoveries  
Year 

Year Ended December 30, 2011 
    
    
    
    
   

     Allowance for bad debt 
$702  
$709  
$-  
$(592) 
$819 

     Allowance for contract losses 
$1,424  
$-  
$1,278  
$(1,182) 
$1,520 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Year Ended December 31, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

     Allowance for bad debt 
$788  
$641  
$-  
$(727) 
$702 

     Allowance for contract losses 
$1,929  
$-  
$1,168  
$(1,673) 
$1,424 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Year Ended January 1, 2010 
    
    
    
    
   

     Allowance for bad debt 
$563  
$1,319  
$-  
$(1,094) 
$788 

     Allowance for contract losses 
$1,886  
$-  
$2,599  
$(2,556) 
$1,929 

 
(1) Balance includes currency translation
adjustments.
 
Recoveries of accounts receivable previously
written-off were $105,000, $213,000 and $131,000 for the years ended December 30, 2011, December 31, 2010, and January 1, 2010,
respectively.
 
Schedules other than above have been omitted
since they are either not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included in the Report.
 


58
 


SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


 
EXPONENT, INC.
 

 
(Registrant)
 

 
 
 

Date: February 24, 2012
/s/ Richard L. Schlenker, Jr.
 

 
Richard L. Schlenker, Jr., Executive Vice President,

 
Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary

  
Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


Signature
 
Title
 
Date

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Paul R. Johnston
 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
 
February 24, 2012

Paul R. Johnston, Ph.D.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Richard L. Schlenker, Jr.
 
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
 
February 24, 2012

Richard L. Schlenker, Jr.
 
Corporate Secretary (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Michael R. Gaulke
 
Chairman of the Board of Directors
 
February 24, 2012

Michael R. Gaulke
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Samuel H. Armacost
 
Director
 
February 24, 2012

Samuel H. Armacost
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Mary B. Cranston
 
Director
 
February 24, 2012

Mary B. Cranston
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Leslie G. Denend
 
Director
 
February 24, 2012

Leslie G. Denend, Ph.D.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Stephen C. Riggins
 
Director
 
February 24, 2012

Stephen C. Riggins
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ John B. Shoven
 
Director
 
February 24, 2012

John B. Shoven, Ph.D.
 
 
 
 

 


59
 


 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
The
following exhibits are filed as part of, or incorporated by reference into (as indicated parenthetically), the Annual Report on
Form 10-K:

3.1(i)Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated
by reference from the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 as filed on June 25, 1990, registration number 33-35562).


3.1(ii)Certificate of Amendment of Restated Certificate of Incorporation
of the Company (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 24, 2006).


3.2Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated
by reference from the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K as filed on February 14, 2012).


4.1Specimen copy of Common Stock Certificate of the Company
(incorporated by reference from the Company’s Registration Statement on Forms S-1 as filed on June 25, 1990, registration
number 33-35562).


*10.6Exponent, Inc. 1998 Non Statutory Stock Option Plan dated
October 24, 1998 (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January
1, 1999).


10.10Exponent, Inc. 1999 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by
reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999).


*10.11Exponent, Inc. 1999 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated
by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999).


10.15Commercial Lease No. 03-53542 between the Company and
the Arizona State Land Department, effective January 17, 1998 (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2003).


*10.17Exponent Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated
by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004).


*10.19Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into or proposed
to be entered into between the Company and its officers and directors (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006).


10.20Services Agreement between the Company and Exponent Engineering
P.C. (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended March 31, 2006).


*10.21Employment Offer Letter between the Company and Dr. Elizabeth
Anderson (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 9, 2006).


10.24Amendment No. 1 to Exponent, Inc. 1998 Nonstatutory Stock
Option Plan dated January 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended December 29, 2006).


10.25Amendment No. 1 to Exponent, Inc. 1999 Stock Option Plan
dated January 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 29, 2006).


10.26Amendment No. 1 to Exponent, Inc. 1999 Restricted Stock
Plan dated January 29, 2007 (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 29, 2006).


10.282008 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference
from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2009).


60
 


*10.31Form of Restricted Stock Unit Employee Bonus Grant Agreement
under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended January 1, 2009).


*10.32Form of Restricted Stock Unit Employee Matching Grant
Agreement under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2009).


*10.33Form of Restricted Stock Unit Director Grant Agreement
under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
year ended January 1, 2009).


*10.34Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Unit Bonus Grant
Agreement under the 1999 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2009).


*10.35Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Unit Matching Grant
Agreement under the 1999 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2009).


*10.36Amended and Restated Restricted Stock Unit Director Grant
Agreement under the 1999 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K
for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2009).


*10.37Amended and Restated 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated
by reference from the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended July 2, 2010).


10.38Exponent, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan, as amended and restated
effective January 1, 2010 (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2010).


10.39First Amendment to the Exponent, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan
(as amended and restated January 1, 2010) (incorporated by reference from the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the fiscal period ended July 1, 2011).


10.40Second Amendment to the Exponent, Inc. 401(k) Savings
Plan (as amended and restated January 1, 2010).


*10.41Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2008 Equity Incentive
Plan.



21.1List of subsidiaries.


23.1Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.


31.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule
13a – 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


31.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule
13a – 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.


32.1Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350.




32.2Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18
U.S.C. Section 1350.
 
  

101.INSXBRL Instance Document

  

101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Schema Document 

  

101.CALXBRL  Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document

  

101.LABXBRL  Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document

  

101.PREXBRL  Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document

  

101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document


  


 * Indicates management compensatory plan, contract or arrangement
 


61






