
10-K
1
d308710d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


FORM 10-K


 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  Form 10-K
    
(Mark One)   


x
 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
OR   


¨
 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from
                    to                     
 Commission file number 000-26481 
   
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
   






NEW YORK
 
16-0816610

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




220 LIBERTY STREET, WARSAW, NEW YORK
 
14569

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(ZIP Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (585) 786-1100 
Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: 
 






 Title of each class
 
 Name of exchange on which registered

Common stock, par value $.01 per share
 
NASDAQ Global Select Market
 Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: 
NONE   
  Indicate by
check mark if the regsitrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the past 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
submit and post such files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.   ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the regsitrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.
  










 Large accelerated filer
 
 ¨
  
 Accelerated filer
 
 x






 Non-accelerated filer
 
 ¨  
  
 Smaller reporting company
 
 ¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant, as computed by reference to the June 30, 2011
closing price reported by NASDAQ, was approximately $210,055,000.  As of March 1, 2012, there were issued and
outstanding, exclusive of treasury shares, 13,811,791 shares of the registrant’s common stock.   
  DOCUMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  Portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
   


TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 





September 30,


  
    
PAGE
 



 PART I
   




 Item 1. Business
    
 
4
  




 Item 1A. Risk Factors
    
 
20
  




 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
    
 
28
  




 Item 2. Properties
    
 
28
  




 Item 3. Legal Proceedings
    
 
28
  




 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
    
 
28
  

PART II
  




 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities
    
 
29
  




 Item 6. Selected Financial Data
    
 
31
  




 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
    
 
35
  




 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
    
 
60
  




 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    
 
62
  




 Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
    
 
114
  




 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
    
 
114
  




 Item 9B. Other Information
    
 
114
  



 PART III
   




 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
    
 
115
  




 Item 11. Executive Compensation
    
 
115
  




 Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
    
 
115
  




 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
    
 
115
  




 Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
    
 
115
  



 PART IV
   




 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
    
 
116
  




 Signatures
    
 
119
  



PART I 
FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION  Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are based on other than historical data are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
statements provide current expectations or forecasts of future events and include, among others:   


 
•
 
 statements with respect to the beliefs, plans, objectives, goals, guidelines, expectations, anticipations, and future financial condition, results
of operations and performance of Financial Institutions, Inc. (“the parent” or “FII”) and its subsidiaries (collectively “the Company,” “we,” “our,” “us”); and 
 


 
•
 
 statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “may,” “could,” “should,” “would,”
“believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “projects,” or similar expressions. 
These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, nor should they be relied upon as representing
management’s views as of any subsequent date. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties and actual results may differ materially from those presented, either expressed or implied, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
including, but not limited to, those presented in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to: 
 


 
•
 
 If we experience greater credit losses than anticipated, earnings may be adversely impacted; 
 


 
•
 
 Geographic concentration may unfavorably impact our operations; 
 


 
•
 
 We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about or from customers and counterparties; 
 


 
•
 
 We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities; 
 


 
•
 
 We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations and regulatory practices;
  


 
•
 
 Ongoing financial reform legislation may result in new regulations that could require us to maintain higher capital levels and/or increase our costs
of operations or limit certain activities or lines of business;   


 
•
 
 New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact our strategic initiatives, results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition;   


 
•
 
 Changes in New York State banking regulations or other laws could adversely affect us; 
 


 
•
 
 If our security systems, or those of merchants, merchant acquirers or other third parties containing information about customers, are compromised,
we may be subject to liability and damage to our reputation;   


 
•
 
 We could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information; 
 


 
•
 
 Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security; 
 


 
•
 
 We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure; 
 


 
•
 
 We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people; 
 


 
•
 
 The potential for business interruption exists throughout our organization; 
 


 
•
 
 Our expansion efforts, particularly through new and acquired branches, may not be successful if we fail to manage our growth effectively;
  


 
•
 
 We may fail to realize any benefits and may incur unanticipated losses related to the assets we acquire and liabilities we assume from current or
future acquisitions;   


 
•
 
 We are subject to interest rate risk;   


 
•
 
 Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally; 
 


 
•
 
 Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies;
  


 
•
 
 The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us; 
 


 
•
 
 Our market value could result in an impairment of goodwill; 
 


 
•
 
 We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area;Liquidity is essential to our businesses; 
 


 
•
 
 We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all;
  


 
•
 
 We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue; 
 


 
•
 
 The market price for our common stock varies, and you should purchase common stock for long-term investment only; 
 


 
•
 
 We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to
distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock;   


 
•
 
 We may not pay dividends on our common stock; and 
 


 
•
 
 Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain banking laws contain anti-takeover provisions. 
We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, and advise
readers that various factors, including those described above, could affect our financial performance and could cause our actual results or circumstances for future periods to differ materially from those anticipated or projected. See also
Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this Form 10-K for further information. Except as required by law, we do not undertake, and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly release any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect the
occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events or circumstances after the date of such statements. 
  3 




ITEM 1.
BUSINESS  GENERAL 
Financial Institutions, Inc. is a financial holding company organized in 1931 under the laws of New York State (“New York” or
“NYS”). Through its subsidiaries, including its wholly-owned, New York chartered banking subsidiary, Five Star Bank, Financial Institutions, Inc. provides a broad array of deposit, lending and other financial services to retail,
commercial, and municipal customers in Western and Central New York. All references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to the parent company are to Financial Institutions, Inc. (“FII”). Unless otherwise indicated, or unless the context
requires otherwise, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “the Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” means Financial Institutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Five Star Bank is
referred to as Five Star Bank, “FSB” or “the Bank”. FII is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries, assisting those subsidiaries by providing financial resources and oversight. Our executive offices are located
at 220 Liberty Street, Warsaw, New York.  We conduct business primarily through our banking subsidiary, Five Star Bank, which
adopted its current name in 2005 when we merged three of our bank subsidiaries, Wyoming County Bank, National Bank of Geneva and Bath National Bank into our New York chartered bank subsidiary, First Tier Bank & Trust, which was renamed Five
Star Bank. In addition, our business operations include a wholly-owned broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiary, Five Star Investment Services, Inc. (“FSIS”).  Our Business Strategy  Our business strategy has been to maintain a
community bank philosophy, which consists of focusing on and understanding the individualized banking needs of the businesses, professionals and other residents of the local communities surrounding our banking centers. We believe this focus allows
us to be more responsive to our customers’ needs and provide a high level of personal service that differentiates us from larger competitors, resulting in long-standing and broad based banking relationships. Our core customers are primarily
comprised of small- to medium-sized businesses, professionals and community organizations who prefer to build a banking relationship with a community bank that offers and combines high quality, competitively-priced banking products and services with
personalized service. Because of our identity and origin as a locally operated bank, we believe that our level of personal service provides a competitive advantage over larger banks, which tend to consolidate decision-making authority outside local
communities.  A key aspect of our current business strategy is to foster a community-oriented culture where our customers and
employees establish long-standing and mutually beneficial relationships. We believe that we are well-positioned to be a strong competitor within our market area because of our focus on community banking needs and customer service, our comprehensive
suite of deposit and loan products typically found at larger banks, our highly experienced management team and our strategically located banking centers. A central part of our strategy is generating core deposits to support growth of a diversified
and high-quality loan portfolio.  MARKET AREAS AND COMPETITION 
We provide a wide range of consumer and commercial banking and financial services to individuals, municipalities and businesses through a
network of over 50 offices and more than 70 ATMs in fourteen contiguous counties of Western and Central New York: Allegany, Cattaraugus, Cayuga, Chautauqua, Chemung, Erie, Genesee, Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, Seneca, Steuben, Wyoming and Yates
Counties. Our banking activities, though concentrated in the communities where we maintain branches, also extend into neighboring counties. In addition, we have expanded our consumer indirect lending presence to the Capital District of New York and
Northern Pennsylvania.  Our market area is economically diversified in that we serve both rural markets and the larger more
affluent markets of suburban Rochester and suburban Buffalo. Rochester and Buffalo are the two largest metropolitan areas in New York outside of New York City, with a combined metropolitan area of over two million people. We anticipate increasing
our presence in and around these metropolitan statistical areas in the coming years.  We face significant competition in both
making loans and attracting deposits, as both Western and Central New York have a high density of financial institutions. Our competition for loans comes principally from commercial banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations, mortgage
banking companies, credit unions, insurance companies and other financial service companies. Our most direct competition for deposits has historically come from commercial banks, savings banks and credit unions. We face additional competition for
deposits from non-depository competitors such as the mutual fund industry, securities and brokerage firms and insurance companies. We generally compete with other financial service providers on factors such as: level of customer service,
responsiveness to customer needs, availability and pricing of products, and geographic location. 
  4 


INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES  Our investment policy is contained within our overall Asset-Liability Management and Investment Policy. This policy dictates that investment decisions will be made based on the safety of the investment,
liquidity requirements, potential returns, cash flow targets, need for collateral and desired risk parameters. In pursuing these objectives, we consider the ability of an investment to provide earnings consistent with factors of quality, maturity,
marketability, pledgeable nature and risk diversification. Our Treasurer, guided by our Asset-Liability Committee (“ALCO”), is responsible for investment portfolio decisions within the established policies. 
Our investment securities strategy centers on providing liquidity to meet loan demand and redeeming liabilities, meeting pledging
requirements, managing credit risks, managing overall interest rate risks and maximizing portfolio yield. Our current policy generally limits security purchases to the following: 
 


 
•
 
 U.S. treasury securities;   


 
•
 
 U.S. government agency securities, which are securities issued by official Federal government bodies (e.g. the Government National Mortgage
Association (“GNMA”)) and U.S. government-sponsored enterprise (“GSE”) securities, which are securities issued by independent organizations that are in part sponsored by the federal government (e.g., the Federal Home Loan Bank
(“FHLB”) system, the Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA”), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”), the Small Business Administration (“SBA”) and the Federal Farm Credit Bureau);
  


 
•
 
 Mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) include mortgage-backed pass-through securities (“pass-throughs”) and collateralized mortgage
obligations (“CMO”) issued by GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC;   


 
•
 
 Investment grade municipal securities, including revenue, tax and bond anticipation notes, statutory installment notes and general obligation bonds;
  


 
•
 
 Certain creditworthy un-rated securities issued by municipalities; 
 


 
•
 
 Certificates of deposit;   


 
•
 
 Equity securities at the holding company level; and 
 


 
•
 
 Limited partnership investments in Small Business Investment Companies. 
  5 


LENDING ACTIVITIES  General  We offer a broad range of loans including commercial business and
revolving lines of credit, commercial mortgages, equipment loans, residential mortgage loans and home equity loans and lines of credit, home improvement loans, automobile loans and personal loans. Newly originated and refinanced fixed rate
residential mortgage loans are either retained in our portfolio or sold to the secondary market with servicing rights retained. 
We continually evaluate and update our lending policy. The key elements of our lending philosophy include the following: 
 


 
•
 
 To ensure consistent underwriting, employees must share a common view of the risks inherent in lending activities as well as the standards to be
applied in underwriting and managing credit risk;   


 
•
 
 Pricing of credit products should be risk-based;   


 
•
 
 The loan portfolio must be diversified to limit the potential impact of negative events; and 
 


 
•
 
 Careful, timely exposure monitoring through dynamic use of our risk rating system is required to provide early warning and assure proactive
management of potential problems.  Commercial Business and Commercial Mortgage Lending 
We originate commercial business loans in our primary market areas and underwrite them based on the borrower’s ability to service
the loan from operating income. We offer a broad range of commercial lending products, including term loans and lines of credit. Short and medium-term commercial loans, primarily collateralized, are made available to businesses for working capital
(including inventory and receivables), business expansion (including acquisition of real estate, expansion and improvements) and the purchase of equipment. Commercial business loans are offered to the agricultural industry for short-term crop
production, farm equipment and livestock financing. As a general practice, where possible, a collateral lien is placed on any available real estate, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and a personal guarantee of the owner is obtained.
As of December 31, 2011, $75.0 million, or 32%, of the aggregate commercial business loan portfolio were at fixed rates, while $158.8 million, or 68%, were at variable rates. 
We also offer commercial mortgage loans to finance the purchase of real property, which generally consists of real estate with completed
structures and, to a smaller extent, agricultural real estate financing. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by first liens on the real estate and are typically amortized over a 10 to 20 year period. The underwriting analysis includes credit
verification, appraisals and a review of the borrower’s financial condition and repayment capacity. As of December 31, 2011, $122.1 million, or 31%, of the aggregate commercial mortgage portfolio were at fixed rates, while $271.1 million,
or 69%, were at variable rates.  We utilize government loan guarantee programs where available and appropriate. 
Government Guarantee Programs  We participate in government loan guarantee programs offered by the SBA, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Rural Economic and Community Development and Farm Service Agency, among others. As of
December 31, 2011, we had loans with an aggregate principal balance of $60.1 million that were covered by guarantees under these programs. The guarantees typically only cover a certain percentage of these loans. By participating in these
programs, we are able to broaden our base of borrowers while minimizing credit risk.  Residential Mortgage Lending 
We originate fixed and variable rate one-to-four family residential mortgages collateralized by owner-occupied properties located in our
market areas. We offer a variety of real estate loan products, which are generally amortized over periods of up to 30 years. Loans collateralized by one-to-four family residential real estate generally have been originated in amounts of no more than
80% of appraised value or have mortgage insurance. Mortgage title insurance and hazard insurance are normally required. We sell certain one-to-four family residential mortgages to the secondary mortgage market and typically retain the right to
service the mortgages. To assure maximum salability of the residential loan products for possible resale, we have formally adopted the underwriting, appraisal, and servicing guidelines of the FHLMC as part of our standard loan policy. As of
December 31, 2011, the residential mortgage servicing portfolio totaled $297.8 million, the majority of which has been sold to FHLMC. As of December 31, 2011, our residential mortgage loan portfolio totaled $113.9 million, or 8% of our
total loan portfolio. We do not engage in sub-prime or other high-risk residential mortgage lending as a line-of-business. 
  6 


Consumer Lending  We offer a variety of loan products to our consumer customers, including home equity loans and lines of credit, automobile loans, secured installment loans and various other types of secured and unsecured
personal loans. At December 31, 2011, outstanding consumer loan balances were concentrated in indirect automobile loans and home equity products.  We selectively originate a mix of new and used indirect consumer loans through franchised new car dealers. The consumer indirect loan portfolio is primarily comprised of loans with terms that typically
range from 36 to 84 months. We have expanded our relationships with franchised new car dealers in Western, Central and the Capital District of New York, and most recently, Northern Pennsylvania. As of December 31, 2011, the consumer indirect
portfolio totaled $487.7 million, or 33% of our total loan portfolio.  We also originate, independently of the indirect loans
described above, consumer automobile loans, recreational vehicle loans, boat loans, home improvement loans, closed-end home equity loans, home equity lines of credit, personal loans (collateralized and uncollateralized) and deposit account
collateralized loans. The terms of these loans typically range from 12 to 180 months and vary based upon the nature of the collateral and the size of loan. The majority of the consumer lending program is underwritten on a secured basis using the
customer’s home or the financed automobile, mobile home, boat or recreational vehicle as collateral. As of December 31, 2011, $117.6 million, or 51%, of the home equity portfolio was at fixed rates, while $114.2 million, or 49%, was at
variable rates. Approximately 69% of the loans in the home equity portfolio are first lien positions at December 31, 2011. The other consumer portfolio totaled $24.3 million as of December 31, 2011, all of which were fixed rate loans.
 Credit Administration  Our loan policy establishes standardized underwriting guidelines, as well as the loan approval process and the committee structures necessary to facilitate and ensure the highest possible loan quality
decision-making in a timely and businesslike manner. The policy establishes requirements for extending credit based on the size, risk rating and type of credit involved. The policy also sets limits on individual loan officer lending authority and
various forms of joint lending authority, while designating which loans are required to be approved at the committee level.  Our credit
objectives are as follows:   


 
•
 
 Compete effectively and service the legitimate credit needs of our target market; 
 


 
•
 
 Enhance our reputation for superior quality and timely delivery of products and services; 
 


 
•
 
 Provide pricing that reflects the entire relationship and is commensurate with the risk profiles of our borrowers; 
 


 
•
 
 Retain, develop and acquire profitable, multi-product, value added relationships with high quality borrowers; 
 


 
•
 
 Focus on government guaranteed lending and establish a specialization in this area to meet the needs of the small businesses in our communities; and
  


 
•
 
 Comply with the relevant laws and regulations.  Our policy includes loan reviews, under the supervision of the Audit and Risk Oversight committees of the Board of Directors and directed by our Chief Risk Officer, in order to render an independent and
objective evaluation of our asset quality and credit administration process.  Risk ratings are assigned to loans in the
commercial business and commercial mortgage portfolios. The risk ratings are specifically used as follows:   


 
•
 
 Profile the risk and exposure in the loan portfolio and identify developing trends and relative levels of risk; 
 


 
•
 
 Identify deteriorating credits;   


 
•
 
 Reflect the probability that a given customer may default on its obligations; and 
 


 
•
 
 Assist with risk-based pricing.  Through the loan approval process, loan administration and loan review program, management seeks to continuously monitor our credit risk profile and assesses the overall quality of the loan portfolio and
adequacy of the allowance for loan losses.  We have several procedures in place to assist in maintaining the overall quality
of our loan portfolio. Delinquent loan reports are monitored by credit administration to identify adverse levels and trends. Loans, including impaired loans, are generally classified as non-accruing if they are past due as to maturity or payment of
principal or interest for a period of more than 90 days, unless such loans are well-collateralized and in the process of collection. Loans that are on a current payment status or past due less than 90 days may also be classified as non-accruing if
repayment in full of principal and/or interest is uncertain. 
  7 


Allowance for Loan Losses  The allowance for loan losses is established through charges to earnings in the form of a provision for loan losses. The allowance reflects management’s estimate of the amount of probable loan losses
in the portfolio, based on factors such as:   


 
•
 
 Specific allocations for individually analyzed credits; 
 


 
•
 
 Risk assessment process;   


 
•
 
 Historical net charge-off experience;   


 
•
 
 Evaluation of the loan portfolio with loan reviews; 
 


 
•
 
 Levels and trends in delinquent and non-accruing loans; 
 


 
•
 
 Trends in volume and terms;   


 
•
 
 Effects of changes in lending policy;   


 
•
 
 Experience, ability and depth of management;   


 
•
 
 National and local economic trends and conditions; 
 


 
•
 
 Concentrations of credit;   


 
•
 
 Interest rate environment;   


 
•
 
 Customer leverage;   


 
•
 
 Information (availability of timely financial information); and 
 


 
•
 
 Collateral values.  Our
methodology in the estimation of the allowance for loan losses includes the following broad areas:   


1.
 Impaired commercial business and commercial mortgage loans, generally in excess of $50 thousand are reviewed individually and assigned a specific
loss allowance, if considered necessary, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).   


2.
 The remaining portfolios of commercial business and commercial mortgage loans are segmented by risk rating into the following loan classification
categories: uncriticized or pass, special mention, substandard and doubtful. Uncriticized loans, special mention loans, substandard loans and all doubtful loans not assigned a specific loss allowance are assigned allowance allocations based on
historical net loan charge-off experience for each of the respective loan categories, supplemented with additional reserve amounts, if considered necessary, based upon qualitative factors. These qualitative factors include the levels and trends in
delinquencies and non-accruing loans, trends in volume and terms of loans, effects of changes in lending policy, experience, ability, and depth of management, national and local economic conditions, concentrations of credit, interest rate
environment, customer leverage, information (availability of timely financial information), and collateral values, among others.   


3.
 The retail loan portfolio is segmented into the following types of loans: residential real estate, home equity (home equity loans and lines of
credit), consumer indirect and other consumer. Allowance allocations for the real estate related loan portfolios (residential and home equity) are based on the average loss experience for the previous eight quarters, supplemented with qualitative
factors similar to the elements described above. Allowance allocations for the consumer indirect and other consumer portfolios are based on vintage analyses performed with historical loss experience at 36 months and 24 months aging, respectively.
The allocations on these portfolios are also supplemented with qualitative factors.  Management presents a
quarterly review of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses to our Board of Directors based on the methodology described above. See also the section titled “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. 
  8 


SOURCES OF FUNDS  Our primary sources of funds are deposits, borrowed funds, scheduled amortization and prepayments of principal from loans and mortgage-backed securities, maturities and calls of investment securities and
funds provided by operations.  Deposits  We maintain a full range of deposit products and accounts to meet the needs of the residents and businesses in our primary service area. Products include an array of checking and savings account programs
for individuals and small businesses, including money market accounts, certificates of deposit, sweep investment capabilities as well as Individual Retirement Accounts and other qualified plan accounts. We rely primarily on competitive pricing of
our deposit products, customer service and long-standing relationships with customers to attract and retain these deposits and seek to make our services convenient to the community by offering 24-hour ATM access at some of our facilities, access to
other ATM networks available at other local financial institutions and retail establishments, and telephone banking services including account inquiry and balance transfers. We also take advantage of the use of technology by allowing our customers
banking access via the Internet and various advanced systems for cash management for our business customers.  We had no
traditional brokered deposits at December 31, 2011; however, we do participate in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (“CDARS”) program, which enables depositors to receive FDIC insurance coverage for deposits
otherwise exceeding the maximum insurable amount. Through the CDARS program, deposits in excess of the maximum insurable amount are placed with multiple participating financial institutions. Reciprocal CDARS deposits totaled $46.5 million at
December 31, 2011.  Borrowings  We have access to a variety of borrowing sources and use both short-term and long-term borrowings to support our asset base. Borrowings from time-to-time include federal funds purchased, securities sold
under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances. We also offer customers a deposit account that sweeps balances in excess of an agreed upon target amount into overnight repurchase agreements. 
OPERATING SEGMENTS  Our
primary operating segment is our subsidiary bank, FSB. Our brokerage subsidiary, FSIS, is also deemed an operating segment; however, it does not meet the applicable thresholds for separate disclosure requirements. 
OTHER INFORMATION  All
of the reports we file with the SEC, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments thereto may be read at the public reference facility maintained by the SEC at
its public reference room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549 and copies of all or any part thereof may be obtained from that office upon payment of the prescribed fees. You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further
information on the operation of the public reference room and you can request copies of the documents upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding registrants, including us, that file electronically with the SEC which can be accessed at www.sec.gov.  We also make available, free of charge, through our website, all reports filed with the SEC, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K,
as well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These filings may be viewed by accessing the Company Filings subsection of the SEC Filings
section under the Investor Relations tab on our website (www.fiiwarsaw.com). Information available on our website is not a part of, and is not incorporated into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  9 


SUPERVISION AND REGULATION  The Company and our subsidiaries are subject to an extensive system of laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of customers and depositors and not for the protection of our
security holders. These laws and regulations govern such areas as capital, permissible activities, allowance for loan losses, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Described below are elements of selected laws
and regulations. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described.  Holding Company Regulation. As a bank holding company and financial holding company, we are subject to comprehensive regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, frequently
referred to as the Federal Reserve Board (“FRB”), under the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended by, among other laws, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (the “Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act”), and by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), enacted on July 21, 2010. We must file reports with the FRB and such additional information as the FRB may require, and our holding company and non-banking affiliates are subject to
examination by the FRB. Under FRB policy, a bank holding company must serve as a source of strength for its subsidiary banks. Under this policy, the FRB may require, and has required in the past, a holding company to contribute additional capital to
an undercapitalized subsidiary bank. The Bank Holding Company Act provides that a bank holding company must obtain FRB approval before:   


 
•
 
 Acquiring, directly or indirectly, ownership or control of any voting shares of another bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, it
would own or control more than 5% of such shares (unless it already owns or controls the majority of such shares);   


 
•
 
 Acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of another bank or bank holding company, or 
 


 
•
 
 Merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. 
The Bank Holding Company Act generally prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more
than 5% of the voting shares of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company, or from engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or controlling banks, or providing services for its subsidiaries.
The principal exceptions to these prohibitions involve certain non-bank activities which, by statute or by FRB regulation or order, have been identified as activities closely related to the business of banking or managing or controlling banks. The
list of activities permitted by the FRB includes, among other things: lending; operating a savings institution, mortgage company, finance company, credit card company or factoring company; performing certain data processing operations; providing
certain investment and financial advice; underwriting and acting as an insurance agent for certain types of credit related insurance; leasing property on a full-payout, non-operating basis; selling money orders, travelers’ checks and United
States Savings Bonds; real estate and personal property appraising; providing tax planning and preparation services; and, subject to certain limitations, providing securities brokerage services for customers. These activities may also be affected by
federal legislation.  The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amended portions of the Bank Holding Company Act to authorize bank holding
companies, such as us, directly or through non-bank subsidiaries to engage in securities, insurance and other activities that are financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. In order to undertake these activities, a bank holding
company must become a “financial holding company” by submitting to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank a declaration that the company elects to be a financial holding company and a certification that all of the depository institutions
controlled by the company are well capitalized and well managed.  Depository Institution Regulation. Our bank
subsidiary is subject to regulation by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). This regulatory structure includes:   


 
•
 
 Real estate lending standards, which provide guidelines concerning loan-to-value ratios for various types of real estate loans;
  


 
•
 
 Risk-based capital rules, including accounting for interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk and the risks posed by non-traditional
activities;   


 
•
 
 Rules requiring depository institutions to develop and implement internal procedures to evaluate and control credit and settlement exposure to their
correspondent banks;   


 
•
 
 Rules restricting types and amounts of equity investments; and 
 


 
•
 
 Rules addressing various safety and soundness issues, including operations and managerial standards, standards for asset quality, earnings and
compensation standards. 
  10 


Capital Adequacy Requirements. The FRB and FDIC have issued substantially similar
risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and banks. In addition, these regulatory agencies may from time to time require that a bank holding company or bank maintain capital above the minimum levels, based on
its financial condition or actual or anticipated growth.  The FRB’s risk-based guidelines establish a two-tier capital
framework. Tier 1 capital generally consists of common shareholders’ equity, retained earnings, a limited amount of qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and non-controlling interests in the equity accounts
of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain intangibles. Tier 2 capital generally consists of certain hybrid capital instruments and perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities and a limited amount of subordinated debt,
qualifying preferred stock, loan loss allowance, and unrealized holding gains on certain equity securities. The sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital represents qualifying total capital, at least 50% of which must consist of Tier 1 capital. 
Risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing Tier 1 and total capital by risk-weighted assets. Assets and off-balance sheet
exposures are assigned to one of four categories of risk-weights, based primarily on relative credit risk. For bank holding companies, generally the minimum Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is 4% and the minimum total risk-based capital ratio is 8%.
Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios under these guidelines at December 31, 2011 were 12.20% and 13.45%, respectively.  The FRB’s leverage capital guidelines establish a minimum leverage ratio determined by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted average total assets. The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding
companies that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a leverage ratio of at least 4%. At December 31, 2011, we had a leverage ratio
of 8.63%. See also the section titled “Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 10, Regulatory Matters, of the notes to
consolidated financial statements.  The federal regulatory authorities’ risk-based capital guidelines are based upon the
1988 capital accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). The Basel Committee is a committee of central banks and bank supervisors/regulators from the major industrialized countries
that develops broad policy guidelines for use by each country’s supervisors in determining the supervisory policies and regulations to which they apply. Actions of the Committee have no direct effect on banks in participating countries. In
2004, the Basel Committee published a new capital accord (“Basel II”) to replace Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk – an internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual
institutions’ circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk weightings on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in existing risk-based capital guidelines. Basel II also would set capital requirements
for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures.  A final rule implementing the
advanced approaches of Basel II in the United States would apply only to certain large or internationally active banking organizations, or “core banks” – defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or
consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more, became effective as of April 1, 2008. Certain other U.S. banking organizations would have the option to adopt the requirements of this rule. We are not required to comply
with the advanced approaches of Basel II.  On September 3, 2009, the United States Department of Treasury (the
“Treasury”) issued a policy statement (the “Treasury Policy Statement”) entitled “Principles for Reforming the U.S. and International Regulatory Capital Framework for Banking Firms,” which contemplates changes to the
existing regulatory capital regime involving substantial revisions to major parts of the Basel I and Basel II capital frameworks and affecting all regulated banking organizations and other systemically important institutions. The Treasury Policy
Statement calls for, among other things, higher and stronger capital requirements for all banking firms, with changes to the regulatory capital framework to be phased in over a period of several years. 
On December 17, 2009, the Basel Committee issued a set of proposals (the “2009 Capital Proposals”) that would
significantly revise the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Among other things, the 2009 Capital Proposals would re-emphasize that common equity is the predominant component of Tier 1 capital. Concurrently with the release of the 2009
Capital Proposals, the Basel Committee also released a set of proposals related to liquidity risk exposure (the “2009 Liquidity Proposals”). The 2009 Liquidity Proposals include the implementation of (i) a “liquidity coverage
ratio” or LCR, designed to ensure that a bank maintains an adequate level of unencumbered, high-quality assets sufficient to meet the bank’s liquidity needs over a 30-day time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario and
(ii) a “net stable funding ratio” or NSFR, designed to promote more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. 
  11 


The Dodd-Frank Act includes certain provisions concerning the capital regulations of the
U.S. banking regulators, which are often referred to as the “Collins Amendment.” These provisions are intended to subject bank holding companies to the same capital requirements as their bank subsidiaries and to eliminate or significantly
reduce the use of hybrid capital instruments, especially trust preferred securities, as regulatory capital. Under the Collins Amendment, trust preferred securities issued by a company with total consolidated assets of less than $15 billion before
May 19, 2010 and treated as regulatory capital are grandfathered, but any such securities issued later are not eligible as regulatory capital. The banking regulators developed regulations setting minimum risk-based and leverage capital
requirements for holding companies and banks on a consolidated basis that are no less stringent than the generally applicable requirements in effect for depository institutions under the prompt corrective action regulations discussed below. The FRB
adopted final regulations effective July 28, 2011, which established a capital floor and amended advanced risk-based capital adequacy standards. The rule mandated that the capital requirements for insured depository institutions be the minimum
for covered institutions, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act. The rule also implemented elements of the Collins Amendment.  The
banking regulators also must seek to make capital standards countercyclical so that the required levels of capital increase in times of economic expansion and decrease in times of economic contraction. The FRB has not yet issued proposed rules for
these countercyclical capital standards.  In December 2010 and January 2011, the Basel Committee published the final texts of
reforms on capital and liquidity generally referred to as “Basel III.” Although Basel III is intended to be implemented by participating countries for large, internationally active banks, its provisions are likely to be considered by U.S.
banking regulators in developing new regulations applicable to other banks in the United States, including Five Star Bank.  For banks in the
United States, among the most significant provisions of Basel III concerning capital are the following:   


 
•
 
 A minimum ratio of common equity to risk-weighted assets reaching 4.5%, plus an additional 2.5% as a capital conservation buffer, by 2019 after a
phase-in period.   


 
•
 
 A minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets reaching 6.0% by 2019 after a phase-in period. 
 


 
•
 
 A minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets, plus the additional 2.5% capital conservation buffer, reaching 10.5% by 2019 after a phase
-in period.   


 
•
 
 An additional countercyclical capital buffer to be imposed by applicable national banking regulators periodically at their discretion, with advance
notice.   


 
•
 
 Restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses applicable when capital ratios fall within the buffer zone.
  


 
•
 
 Deduction from common equity of deferred tax assets that depend on future profitability to be realized. 
 


 
•
 
 Increased capital requirements for counterparty credit risk relating to OTC derivatives, repos and securities financing activities.
  


 
•
 
 For capital instruments issued on or after January 13, 2013 (other than common equity), a loss-absorbency requirement such that the instrument
must be written off or converted to common equity if a trigger event occurs, either pursuant to applicable law or at the direction of the banking regulator. A trigger event is an event under which the banking entity would become nonviable without
the write-off or conversion, or without an injection of capital from the public sector. The issuer must maintain authorization to issue the requisite shares of common equity if conversion were required. 
The Basel III provisions on liquidity include complex criteria establishing the LCR and NSFR. The purpose of the LCR is to ensure that a
bank maintains adequate unencumbered, high quality liquid assets to meet its liquidity needs for 30 days under a severe liquidity stress scenario. The purpose of the NSFR is to promote more medium and long-term funding of assets and activities,
using a one-year horizon. Although Basel III is described as a “final text,” it is subject to the resolution of certain issues and to further guidance and modification, as well as to adoption by U.S. banking regulators, including decisions
as to whether and to what extent it will apply to U.S. banks that are not large, internationally active banks. 
  12 


Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991, among other things, identifies five capital categories for insured depository institutions (well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) and requires the
respective federal bank regulatory agencies to implement systems for “prompt corrective action” for insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements within these categories. This act imposes progressively more
restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the category in which an institution is classified. Failure to meet the capital guidelines could also subject a banking institution to capital raising
requirements. An “undercapitalized” bank must develop a capital restoration plan and its parent holding company must guarantee that bank’s compliance with the plan. The liability of the parent holding company under any such guarantee
is limited to the lesser of five percent of the bank’s assets at the time it became “undercapitalized” or the amount needed to comply with the plan. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy of the parent holding company, such
guarantee would take priority over the parent’s general unsecured creditors. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act requires the various regulatory agencies to prescribe certain non-capital standards for safety
and soundness relating generally to operations and management, asset quality and executive compensation and permits regulatory action against a financial institution that does not meet these standards. 
The various federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted substantially similar regulations that define the five capital categories
identified by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act, using the total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital and leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. These regulations establish various degrees of
corrective action to be taken when an institution is considered undercapitalized. Under the regulations, a “well capitalized” institution must have a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 10% and a leverage ratio of at least 5% and not be subject to a capital directive or order. An institution is “adequately capitalized” if it has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 8% and a leverage ratio of at least 4% (3% in certain circumstances). An institution is “undercapitalized” if it has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4%, a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8% or a leverage
ratio of less than 4% (3% in certain circumstances). An institution is “significantly undercapitalized” if it has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 3%, a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6% or a leverage ratio of
less than 3%. An institution is “critically undercapitalized” if its tangible equity is equal to or less than 2% of total assets. Generally, an institution may be reclassified in a lower capitalization category if it is determined that the
institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice.  As of December 31, 2011, our subsidiary
bank met the requirements to be classified as “well-capitalized”.  Dividends. The FRB policy is that a bank
holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that its net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividends and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the holding company’s capital needs,
asset quality and overall financial condition, and that it is inappropriate for a bank holding company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Furthermore, a bank that is classified under the prompt corrective
action regulations as “undercapitalized” will be prohibited from paying any dividends.  In December 2008, under the
Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) Capital Purchase Program, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement—Standard Terms with the Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, we sold to the Treasury for an
aggregate purchase price of $37.5 million, 7,503 shares of fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A (“Series A” preferred stock) and a warrant to purchase up to 378,175 shares of our common stock, par value $0.01 per
share, at an exercise price of $14.88 per share (the “Warrant”).  Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement,
our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares was limited. Specifically, we were prohibited from paying any dividend with respect to shares of common stock, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking pari passu with the
Series A preferred stock or repurchasing or redeeming any shares of the our common stock, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking pari passu with the Series A preferred stock in any quarter unless all accrued and unpaid dividends
were paid on the Series A preferred stock for all past dividend periods (including the latest completed dividend period), subject to certain limited exceptions.  We fully redeemed the Series A preferred stock during the first quarter of 2011 and repurchased the Warrant in the following quarter. The complete redemption of the Series A preferred stock removed the
TARP restrictions pertaining to our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase our common stock, as well as certain restrictions associated with executive compensation. 
Our primary source for cash dividends is the dividends we receive from our subsidiary bank. Our bank is subject to various regulatory
policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. Approval of the New York State Department of Financial Services is required prior to paying a dividend if the
dividend declared by the Bank exceeds the sum of the Bank’s net profits for that year and its retained net profits for the preceding two calendar years. 
  13 


Federal Deposit Insurance Assessments. The Bank’s deposits are insured to the
maximum extent permitted by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). Upon enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 on October 3, 2008, federal deposit insurance coverage levels under the DIF temporarily increased from
$100,000 to $250,000 per deposit category, per depositor, per institution, through December 31, 2009. On May 20, 2009, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act extended the temporary increase through December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank
Act permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance to $250,000 per deposit category, per depositor, per institution retroactive to January 1, 2008, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance
through December 31, 2013.  As the insurer, the FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of, and to require
reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions. The FDIC also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious threat to the DIF. The FDIC also has the authority to
initiate enforcement actions against banks. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged or is engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue
operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC or written agreement entered into with the FDIC. The management of the Bank does not know of any practice, condition or violation that might lead
to termination of deposit insurance.  The FDIC maintains the DIF by assessing depository institutions an insurance premium on
a quarterly basis under a risk-based assessment system. The amount of the assessment is a function of the institution’s risk category, of which there are four, and assessment base. An institution’s risk category is determined according to
its supervisory ratings and capital levels and is used to determine the institution’s assessment rate. The assessment rate for risk categories are calculated according to a formula, which relies on supervisory ratings and either certain
financial ratios or long-term debt ratings. An insured bank’s assessment base is currently determined by its level of deposits. Because the system is risk-based, it allows banks to pay lower assessments to the FDIC as their capital level and
supervisory ratings improve. By the same token, if these indicators deteriorate, the institution will have to pay higher assessments to the FDIC.  Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC Board has the authority to set the annual assessment rate range for the various risk categories within certain regulatory limits and to impose special
assessments upon insured depository institutions when deemed necessary by the FDIC’s Board. As part of the Deposit Insurance Fund Restoration Plan adopted by the FDIC in October 2008, on February 27, 2009, the FDIC adopted the final rule
modifying the risk-based assessment system, which set initial base assessment rates between 12 and 45 basis points, beginning April 1, 2009. The FDIC imposed an emergency special assessment on June 30, 2009, which totaled $923 thousand for
our Bank. In addition, in September 2009, the FDIC extended the Restoration Plan period to eight years. In November 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring prepayment of 13 quarters of FDIC premiums. The Bank’s required prepayment
amounted to $9.9 million and was collected in December 2009.  In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new Restoration Plan for the
DIF to ensure that the fund reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the Restoration Plan, the FDIC did not institute the uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates scheduled to
take place on January 1, 2011 and maintained the current schedule of assessment rates for all depository institutions. At least semi-annually, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF and, if needed, will increase or
decrease assessment rates, following notice-and-comment rulemaking, if required.  In November 2010, the FDIC issued a notice
of proposed rulemaking to change the deposit insurance assessment base from total domestic deposits to average total assets minus average tangible equity, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, effective April 1, 2011. The FDIC also issued a notice
of proposed rulemaking to revise the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions. The FDIC proposed to create a two tier system—one for large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets, and another for “highly
complex” institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. These proposals did not apply to us or the Bank. 
On February 9, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule which redefines the deposit insurance assessment base as required by the
Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule sets the deposit insurance assessment base as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. It also sets a new assessment rate schedule which reflects assessment rate adjustments including
potentially reduced rates tied to unsecured debt and potentially increased rates for brokered deposits. The final rule became effective on April 1, 2011. Under the new rule, our FDIC insurance premiums decreased $994 thousand to $1.5 million in
2011 compared to $2.5 million in 2010.  Transactions with Affiliates. FII and FSB are affiliates within the meaning of
the Federal Reserve Act. The Federal Reserve Act imposes limitations on a bank with respect to extensions of credit to, investments in, and certain other transactions with, its parent bank holding company and the holding company’s other
subsidiaries. Furthermore, bank loans and extensions of credit to affiliates also are subject to various collateral requirements. 
  14 


Community Reinvestment Act. Under the Community Reinvestment Act, every FDIC-insured
institution is obligated, consistent with safe and sound banking practices, to help meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low and moderate income neighborhoods. The Community Reinvestment Act requires the appropriate federal
banking regulator, in connection with the examination of an insured institution, to assess the institution’s record of meeting the credit needs of its community and to consider this record in its evaluation of certain applications, such as a
merger or the establishment of a branch. An unsatisfactory rating may be used as the basis for the denial of an application and will prevent a bank holding company of the institution from making an election to become a financial holding company.
 As of its last Community Reinvestment Act examination, Five Star Bank received a rating of “outstanding.” 
Interstate Banking and Branching. The FRB may approve an application of a bank holding company to acquire control of, or acquire
all or substantially all of the assets of, a bank located in a state other than the bank holding company’s home state, without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited by the laws of any state. The FRB may not approve the acquisition of
a bank that has not been in existence for the minimum time period (not exceeding five years) specified by the law of the target bank’s home state. The FRB also may not approve an application if the bank holding company (and its bank affiliates)
controls or would control more than ten percent of the insured deposits in the U.S. or, generally, 30% or more of the deposits in the target bank’s home state or in any state in which the target bank maintains a branch. Individual states may
waive the 30% statewide concentration limit. Each state may limit the percentage of total insured deposits in the state that may be held or controlled by a bank or bank holding company to the extent the limitation does not discriminate against
out-of-state banks or bank holding companies.  The federal banking agencies are authorized to approve interstate bank merger
transactions without regard to whether these transactions are prohibited by the law of any state, unless the home state of one of the banks opted out of interstate mergers prior to June 1, 1997. Interstate acquisitions of branches are permitted
only if the law of the state in which the branch is located permits these acquisitions. Interstate mergers and branch acquisitions are subject to the nationwide and statewide-insured deposit concentration limits described above. 
Privacy Rules. Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, have adopted rules limiting the ability
of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent
disclosure of certain personal information to non-affiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to outside
vendors.  International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001. The President signed the
USA Patriot Act of 2001 into law in October 2001. This act contains the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “IMLAFA”). The IMLAFA substantially broadens existing anti-money laundering
legislation and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the U.S., imposes new compliance and due diligence obligations, creates new crimes and penalties, compels the production of documents located both inside and outside the U.S., including those of
foreign institutions that have a correspondent relationship in the U.S., and clarifies the safe harbor from civil liability to customers. The Treasury Department has issued a number of regulations implementing the USA Patriot Act that apply certain
of its requirements to financial institutions such as our banking and broker-dealer subsidiaries. The regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report
money laundering and terrorist financing. The increased obligations of financial institutions, including us, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and
law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, requires the implementation and maintenance of internal procedures, practices and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs and may
subject us to liability.  As noted above, enforcement and compliance-related activity by government agencies has increased.
Money laundering and anti-terrorism compliance is among the areas receiving a high level of focus in the present environment. 
  15 


Regulatory Reform. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. The
Dodd-Frank Act (as amended) implements far-reaching changes across the financial regulatory landscape, including provisions that, among other things, has or will:   


 
•
 
 Centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, with broad
rulemaking, supervision and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and certain others, including the examination and enforcement powers with respect to any bank with more than $10 billion in
assets.   


 
•
 
 Require new capital rules and apply the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank
holding companies.   


 
•
 
 Changed the assessment base for federal deposit insurance from the amount of insured deposits to consolidated average assets less tangible capital.
As a result, this change generally imposes more deposit insurance cost on institutions with assets of $10 billion or more.   


 
•
 
 Increase the minimum ratio of net worth to insured deposits of the Deposit Insurance Fund from 1.15% to 1.35% and require the FDIC, in setting
assessments, to offset the effect of the increase on institutions with assets of less than $10 billion.   


 
•
 
 Provide for new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance, including guidelines or regulations
on incentive-based compensation and a prohibition on compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks or that could provide excessive compensation. 
 


 
•
 
 Made permanent the $250 thousand limit for federal deposit insurance and provided unlimited federal deposit insurance until December 31, 2012
for non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts and IOLTA accounts at all insured depository institutions.   


 
•
 
 Repealed the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on commercial demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay
interest on business transaction and other accounts.   


 
•
 
 Allow de novo interstate branching by banks.   


 
•
 
 Increased the authority of the FRB to examine us and our non-bank subsidiary. 
 


 
•
 
 Required all bank holding companies to serve as a source of financial strength to their depository institution subsidiaries in the event such
subsidiaries suffer from financial distress.   


 
•
 
 Restrict proprietary trading by banks, bank holding companies and others, and their acquisition and retention of ownership interests in and
sponsorship of hedge funds and private equity funds. This restriction is commonly referred to as the “Volcker Rule.” There is an exception in the Volcker Rule to allow a bank to organize and offer hedge funds and private equity funds to
customers if certain conditions are met. These conditions include, among others, requirements that the bank provides bona fide investment advisory services; the funds are organized only in connection with such services and to customers of
such services; the bank does not have more than a de minimis interest in the funds, limited to a 3% ownership interest in any single fund and an aggregated investment in all funds of 3% of Tier 1 capital; the bank does not guarantee the
obligations or performance of the funds; and no director or employee of the bank has an ownership interest in the fund unless he or she provides services directly to the funds. The FRB issued proposed rules in November 2011.
 Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years,
making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us and the financial services industry more generally. Provisions in the legislation may require us to maintain higher capital levels and/or increase our cost of operations and limit
certain activities or lines of business.  TARP-Related Compensation and Corporate Governance Requirements. The
Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”) was signed into law on October 3, 2008 and authorized the Treasury to provide funds to be used to restore liquidity and stability to the U.S. financial system pursuant to the TARP.
Under the authority of EESA, Treasury instituted the TARP Capital Purchase Program to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. As noted
above, on December 23, 2008, we participated in this program by issuing 7,503 shares of our Series A preferred stock to the Treasury for a purchase price of $37.5 million in cash and issued the Warrant to the Treasury. 
Participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program included certain requirements and restrictions regarding payment of dividends and
compensation that were expanded significantly by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), as implemented by the Treasury’s Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance. Our
redemption of the Series A preferred stock during the first quarter of 2011, as described under “Dividends”, effectively ended these requirements and restrictions. 
  16 


Incentive Compensation. On April 14, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed
regulation on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Proposal”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by
encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Proposal, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key
principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be
compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. Banking organizations were
instructed to begin an immediate review of their incentive compensation policies to ensure that they do not encourage excessive risk-taking and implement corrective programs as needed. Where there are deficiencies in the incentive compensation
arrangements, they must be immediately addressed.  Additionally, the Incentive Compensation Proposal will require the Federal
Reserve to review, as part of the regular, risk-focused examination process, the incentive compensation arrangements of banking organizations, such as us, that are not “large, complex banking organizations.” These reviews will be tailored
to each organization based on the scope and complexity of the organization’s activities and the prevalence of incentive compensation arrangements. The findings of the supervisory initiatives will be included in reports of examination.
Deficiencies will be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect the organization’s ability to make acquisitions and take other actions. Enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its
incentive compensation arrangements, or related risk-management control or governance processes, pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the
deficiencies.  The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on executive compensation are continuing to
develop and are likely to continue evolving in the near future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect our ability to hire, retain and motivate our key employees. 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented a broad range of corporate governance, accounting and
reporting measures for companies that have securities registered under the Exchange Act, including publicly-held bank holding companies such as Financial Institutions. Specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the various regulations
promulgated thereunder, established, among other things: (i) requirements for audit committees, including independence, expertise, and responsibilities; (ii) responsibilities regarding financial statements for the Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer of the reporting company; (iii) the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of the reporting company’s securities by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer in the twelve-month period following the initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; (iv) the creation of an independent accounting oversight board; (v) standards for auditors and regulation of
audits, including independence provisions that restrict non-audit services that accountants may provide to their audit clients; (vi) disclosure and reporting obligations for the reporting company and their directors and executive officers,
including accelerated reporting of stock transactions and a prohibition on trading during pension blackout periods; (vii) a prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except certain loans made by insured financial institutions on
non-preferential terms and in compliance with other bank regulatory requirements; and (viii) a range of civil and criminal penalties for fraud and other violations of the securities laws. 
Consumer Laws and Regulations. In addition to the laws and regulations discussed herein, the Bank is also subject to
certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include, among others, the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in
Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. These laws and regulations
mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits or making loans to such customers. The Bank must comply with the applicable provisions of these consumer
protection laws and regulations as part of its ongoing customer relations. The Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act (the “Check 21 Act”), which became effective on October 28, 2004, creates a new negotiable instrument, called a
“substitute check”, which banks are required to accept as the legal equivalent of a paper check if it meets the requirements of the Check 21 Act. The Check 21 Act is designed to facilitate check truncation, to foster innovation in the
check payment system, and to improve the payment system by shortening processing times and reducing the volume of paper checks. 
  17 


Other Future Legislation and Changes in Regulations. In addition to the specific
proposals described above, from time to time, various legislative and regulatory initiatives are introduced in Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the
powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes our operating environment in substantial and unpredictable
ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. We
cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our financial condition or results of operations. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory
policies applicable to us or our subsidiaries could have a material effect on our business.  Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices
 Our financial statements included herein have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, which requires us to measure
financial position and operating results principally using historic dollars. Changes in the relative value of money due to inflation or recession are generally not considered. The primary effect of inflation on our operations is reflected in
increased operating costs. In our view, changes in interest rates affect the financial condition of a financial institution to a far greater degree than changes in the inflation rate. While interest rates are generally influenced by changes in the
inflation rate, they do not necessarily change at the same rate or in the same magnitude. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including changes in the expected rate of inflation, general and local economic
conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government, its agencies and various other governmental regulatory authorities.  Regulatory and Economic Policies  Our business and earnings are affected
by general and local economic conditions and by the monetary and fiscal policies of the U.S. government, its agencies and various other governmental regulatory authorities. The FRB regulates the supply of money in order to influence general economic
conditions. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the FRB are (i) conducting open market operations in U.S. government obligations, (ii) changing the discount rate on financial institution borrowings, (iii) imposing or
changing reserve requirements against financial institution deposits, and (iv) restricting certain borrowings and imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by financial institutions and their affiliates. These methods
are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. For that reason, the policies of the FRB could have a material effect
on our earnings.  EMPLOYEES  At December 31, 2011, we had 613 employees. None of the employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and management believes its relations with employees are good. 
  18 


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT 
The following table sets forth current information regarding our executive officers and certain other significant employees (ages are as
of May 9, 2012, the date of the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders).   














 Name
  
Age
 
  
StartedIn
 
  
 Positions/Offices






 Peter G. Humphrey
  
 
57
  
  
 
1977
  
  
President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Bank since 1994.






 Karl F. Krebs
  
 
56
  
  
 
2009
  
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the Bank since 2009. Senior Financial Specialist at West Valley Environmental Services, LLC, prior to
joining FII in 2009. President of Robar General Funding Corp., a mortgage and construction loan broker, from 2006 to 2008. Senior Vice President and Line-of-Business Finance Director at Five Star Bank from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President
at Wyoming County Bank from 2004 to 2005.






 Rita M. Bartol
  
 
51
  
  
 
2010
  
  
Senior Vice President and Director of Human Resources of the Company and the Bank since late 2010. Senior Vice President and Director of Human Resources
at Cardinal Financial Corporation, a financial holding company, in 2010 and Vice President and Director of Human Resources at Union Bankshares Corporation from 2006 to 2010. Vice President and Human Resources and Organizational
Development Manager at M & T Bank Corporation from 1998 to 2005.






 Martin K. Birmingham
  
 
45
  
  
 
2005
  
  
Executive Vice President and Regional President / Commercial Banking Executive Officer of the Bank since 2009. Senior Vice President and Regional President of the Bank since
2005. Senior Team Leader and Regional President of the Rochester Market at Bank of America (formally Fleet Boston Financial) from 2000 to 2005.






 George D. Hagi
  
 
59
  
  
 
2006
  
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the Company and the Bank since 2006. Senior Vice President and Director of Risk Management at First National Bankshares of
Florida and FNB Corp. from 1997 to 2005.






 Richard J. Harrison
  
 
66
  
  
 
2003
  
  
Executive Vice President and Senior Retail Lending Administrator of the Bank since 2009. Senior Vice President and Senior Retail Lending Administrator of the Bank since
2003. Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer at Savings Bank of the Finger Lakes from 2001 to 2003.






 Kevin B. Klotzbach
  
 
59
  
  
 
2001
  
  
Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bank since 2001.






 R. Mitchell McLaughlin
  
 
54
  
  
 
1981
  
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bank since 2009. Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bank since 2006.






 John L. Rizzo
  
 
62
  
  
 
2010
  
  
Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary of the Company and the Bank since 2010. General counsel for the Company and the Bank since 2007. Genesee County (New York)
Attorney from 1976 to 2010.

  19 




ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  An
investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks
and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference herein. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that
management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Annual Report on Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. Further, to the extent that any of
the information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitutes forward-looking statements, the risk factors set forth below also are cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause our actual results to differ
materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of us.  If any of the following risks
actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment.
 CREDIT RISKS  If we
experience greater credit losses than anticipated, earnings may be adversely impacted.  As a lender, we are exposed to the
risk that customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. Credit losses are inherent in the business of making loans and
could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.  We make various assumptions and judgments about the
collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral, and we provide an allowance for estimated loan losses based on a number of factors. We
believe that the allowance for loan losses is adequate. However, if our assumptions or judgments are wrong, the allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover the actual credit losses. We may have to increase the allowance in the future in
response to the request of one of our primary banking regulators, to adjust for changing conditions and assumptions, or as a result of any deterioration in the quality of our loan portfolio. The actual amount of future provisions for credit losses
may vary from the amount of past provisions.  Geographic concentration may unfavorably impact our operations. 
Substantially all of our business and operations are concentrated in the Western and Central New York region. As a result of this
geographic concentration, our results depend largely on economic conditions in these and surrounding areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in our market could:   


 
•
 
 increase loan delinquencies;   


 
•
 
 increase problem assets and foreclosures;   


 
•
 
 increase claims and lawsuits;   


 
•
 
 decrease the demand for our products and services; and 
 


 
•
 
 decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, the value of assets associated
with non-performing loans and collateral coverage.  Generally, we make loans to small to mid-sized
businesses whose success depends on the regional economy. These businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. Adverse economic and business conditions in our market areas could
reduce our growth rate, affect our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and, consequently, adversely affect our business, financial condition and performance. For example, we place substantial reliance on real estate as collateral for our
loan portfolio. A sharp downturn in real estate values in our market area could leave many of these loans inadequately collateralized. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real
estate values, the impact on our results of operations could be materially adverse.  We depend on the accuracy and completeness of
information about or from customers and counterparties.  In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other
transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports, and other financial information. We may also rely on representations of those customers,
counterparties, or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports, or other financial information could cause us
to enter into unfavorable transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  20 


We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities. 
A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and
take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for
personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or
more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure
action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.  REGULATORY/LEGAL/COMPLIANCE RISKS 
We are highly regulated and may be adversely affected by changes in banking laws, regulations and regulatory practices. 
We are subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination. This regulatory structure gives the regulatory authorities extensive
discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities and examination policies to address not only compliance with applicable laws and regulations (including laws and regulations governing consumer credit, and anti-money
laundering and anti-terrorism laws), but also capital adequacy, asset quality and risk, management ability and performance, earnings, liquidity, and various other factors. As part of this regulatory structure, we are subject to policies and other
guidance developed by the regulatory agencies with respect to capital levels, the timing and amount of dividend payments, the classification of assets and the establishment of adequate loan loss reserves for regulatory purposes. Under this structure
the regulatory agencies have broad discretion to impose restrictions and limitations on our operations if they determine, among other things, that our operations are unsafe or unsound, fail to comply with applicable law or are otherwise inconsistent
with laws and regulations or with the supervisory policies of these agencies.  This supervisory framework could materially
impact the conduct, growth and profitability of our operations. Any failure on our part to comply with current laws, regulations, other regulatory requirements or safe and sound banking practices or concerns about our financial condition, or any
related regulatory sanctions or adverse actions against us, could increase our costs or restrict our ability to expand our business and result in damage to our reputation.  Ongoing financial reform legislation may result in new regulations that could require us to maintain higher capital levels and/or increase our costs of operations or limit certain activities or lines
of business.  On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act into law. This new law has significantly
changed the current bank regulatory structure and affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad
range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the
details and much of the rulemaking of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known for many months or years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, compliance with this new law and its implementing regulations are
expected to result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could significantly impact our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition.
 The financial services industry is extensively regulated. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to
protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a company’s stockholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on operations. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are
described in the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation” included in Part I, Item 1, “Business”. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws,
regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws,
regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. 
  21 


Changes in New York State banking regulations or other laws could adversely affect us. 
As of October 3, 2011 the NYS Banking Department and the NYS Insurance Department merged into a single Department of Financial
Services, or DFS. Beginning April 1, 2012, the Superintendent of the DFS may assess expenses in such proportion as he or she deems just and reasonable against banks and insurers. The DFS is authorized to create a special account
called the “consumer protection account,” which will consist of fees and penalties received by the department of state and DFS, as well as other monies received in the form of penalties. These monies will be available to the DFS to pay for
costs related to its consumer and investor protection activities. If the consumer protection account is insufficient to cover those costs, the balance would be recoverable through assessments against the industry. 
The bill makes New York’s “wild card” authority (that was set to expire September 10, 2011) permanent. Under this
authority, the Banking Board has the power to grant to New York chartered banking organizations, as well as licensed foreign bank branches and agencies, powers possessed by a counterpart federally-chartered banking institution. 
In recent years, credit unions and savings institutions have lobbied in the State of New York to allow local government entities such as
cities, towns, counties, public schools, fire districts and public libraries the option of depositing public funds in local credit unions or community savings institutions, a line of business currently serviced primarily by commercial banks,
including our Bank.  These changes or the possibility of these changes could adversely affect us. 
OPERATIONAL RISKS 
If our security systems, or those of merchants, merchant acquirers or other third parties containing information about customers, are
compromised, we may be subject to liability and damage to our reputation.  As part of our business, we collect, process
and retain sensitive and confidential client and customer information on our behalf and on behalf of other third parties. Customer data also may be stored on systems of third-party service providers and merchants that may have inadequate security
systems. Third-party carriers regularly transport customer data, and may lose sensitive customer information. Unauthorized access to our networks or any of our other information systems potentially could jeopardize the security of confidential
information stored in our computer systems or transmitted by our customers or others. If our security systems or those of merchants, processors or other third-party service providers are compromised such that this confidential information is
disclosed to unauthorized parties, we may be subject to liability. For example, in the event of a security breach, we may incur losses related to fraudulent use of debit cards issued by us as well as the operational costs associated with reissuing
cards. Although we take preventive measures to address these factors, such measures are costly and may become more costly in the future. Moreover, these measures may not protect us from liability, which may not be adequately covered by insurance, or
from damage to our reputation.  We could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard sensitive and confidential information.
 As part of our normal operations, we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as
proprietary information relating to our business operations. We maintain a system of internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that fraudulent activity, including misappropriation of assets, fraudulent financial reporting, and
unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data is either prevented or timely detected. Our systems or our third-party service providers’ systems could be victimized by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other
malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. Such disclosure could, among other things: 
 


 
•
 
 seriously damage our reputation,   


 
•
 
 allow competitors access to our proprietary business information, 
 


 
•
 
 subject us to liability for a failure to safeguard client data, 
 


 
•
 
 result in the loss of our existing customers,   


 
•
 
 subject us to regulatory action, and   


 
•
 
 require significant capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. 
  22 


Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. 
We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of
these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure,
interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any
failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial
liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  We rely on other
companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.  Third party vendors provide key components of our
business infrastructure such as internet connections, network access and core application processing. While we have selected these third party vendors carefully, we do not control their actions. Any problems caused by these third parties, including
as a result of their not providing us their services for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers or otherwise conduct our business efficiently and
effectively. Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.  We may not be able to attract and retain
skilled people.  Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain skilled people. Competition for
the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense, and we may not be able to hire sufficiently skilled people or to retain them. Further, the rural location of our principal executive offices and many of our bank branches make it
difficult for us to attract skilled people to such locations. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of
industry experience, and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  The potential for business interruption
exists throughout our organization.  Integral to our performance is the continued efficacy of our technical systems,
operational infrastructure, relationships with third parties and the vast array of associates and key executives in our day-to-day and ongoing operations. Failure by any or all of these resources subjects us to risks that may vary in size, scale and
scope. This includes, but is not limited to, operational or technical failures, ineffectiveness or exposure due to interruption in third party support as expected, as well as the loss of key individuals or failure on the part of key individuals to
perform properly. Although management has established policies and procedures, including implementation and testing of a comprehensive contingency plan, to address such failures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect
on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
Our expansion efforts, particularly through new and acquired branches, may not be successful if we fail to manage our growth
effectively.  A key component of our strategy to grow and improve profitability is to expand our branch network into
communities within or adjacent to markets where we currently conduct business. We intend to continue to pursue a growth strategy for our business. Operating branches outside of our current market areas may subject us to additional risk, including
the local risks related to the new market areas, management of employees from a distance, additional credit risks, logistical operational issues and management time constraints. 
We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities, and, if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect
to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, branch acquisitions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we
will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, we
can provide no assurance that we will be able to manage the costs and implementation risks associated with this strategy so that expansion of our branch network will be profitable. 
We may fail to realize any benefits and may incur unanticipated losses related to the assets we acquire and liabilities we assume from
current or future acquisitions.  On January 19, 2012, Five Star Bank entered into an agreement to acquire four retail
banking branches currently owned by HSBC Bank USA, N.A. and four retail banking branches currently owned by First Niagara Bank, N.A. The transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and are expected to
close by the end of the third quarter of 2012. 
  23 


The success of this acquisition and future acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability
to successfully combine the businesses and assets we acquired with our business, and our ability to successfully manage the loan portfolios that were acquired. As with any acquisition involving a financial institution, there may also be business and
service changes and disruptions that result in the loss of customers or cause customers to close their accounts and move their business to competing financial institutions. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key
employees, the disruption of ongoing business, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees, or to achieve the
anticipated benefits of the transactions. The loss of some of our key employees or those of the branches being acquired could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct business in the markets in which those branches operated, which could
adversely affect our financial results. Integration efforts will also divert attention and resources from our management. In addition, general market and economic conditions or governmental actions affecting the financial industry generally may
inhibit our ability to successfully integrate these operations. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the transactions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than
expected. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings.  EXTERNAL RISKS
 We are subject to interest rate risk.  Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and
policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investments and the
amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities; and (iii) the average
duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net
interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other
borrowings.  Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the
potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Also,
our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions likely may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet.  Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally.  From December 2007 through June 2009, the U.S. economy was in recession. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions in the U.S. was greatly reduced. Although economic conditions have
begun to improve, certain sectors, such as real estate, remain weak and unemployment remains high. Local governments and many businesses are still in serious difficulty due to lower consumer spending and reduced tax collections. 
Market conditions also led to the failure or merger of several prominent financial institutions and numerous regional and community-based
financial institutions. These failures, as well as projected future failures, have had a significant negative impact on the capitalization level of the deposit insurance fund of the FDIC, which, in turn, has led to past increases in deposit
insurance premiums paid by financial institutions.  Our financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of
borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, as well as demand for loans and other products and services we offer, is highly dependent on the business environment in the
markets where we operate, in the State of New York and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, low unemployment,
high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the
availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; high unemployment, natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. 
Overall, during 2010 and 2011, the business environment has been adverse for many households and businesses in the United States and
worldwide. While economic conditions in the New York, the United States and worldwide have begun to improve, there can be no assurance that this improvement will continue. Such conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations. 
  24 


Approximately 20% of our investment securities portfolio at December 31, 2011 is
comprised of municipal securities issued by or on behalf of New York and its political subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities, the interest on which is exempt from regular federal income tax. Risks associated with investing in municipal
securities include political, economic and regulatory factors which may affect the issuers. The fiscal concerns facing New York may lead credit rating agencies to downgrade its debt obligations. It is uncertain how the financial markets may react to
any potential future ratings downgrade in New York’s debt obligations. In the event New York was downgraded, local municipalities with a high dependency on state aid could be adversely impacted. 
Our earnings are significantly affected by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. 
The policies of the Federal Reserve impact us significantly. The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the United
States. Its policies directly and indirectly influence the rate of interest earned on loans and paid on borrowings and interest-bearing deposits and can also affect the value of financial instruments we hold. Those policies determine to a
significant extent our cost of funds for lending and investing. Changes in those policies are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Federal Reserve policies can also affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail
to repay their loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the Federal Reserve could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay its loan,
which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  The soundness of other financial
institutions could adversely affect us.  Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading,
clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and
dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of a default by our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us
cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due us. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
 Our market value could result in an impairment of goodwill.  Our goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or when triggering events or circumstances indicate impairment may exist. Significant and sustained declines in our stock price and market
capitalization, significant declines in our expected future cash flows, significant adverse changes in the business climate or slower growth rates could result in impairment of goodwill. At December 31, 2011, we had goodwill of $37.4 million,
representing approximately 16% of shareholders’ equity. If impairment of goodwill was determined to exist, we would be required to write down our goodwill as a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of
operations or financial condition. For further discussion, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 6, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. 
  25 


We operate in a highly competitive industry and market area. 
We face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may
have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and internet banks within the various markets in which we operate. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without
limitation, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative,
regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including
banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting), and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such
as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of our competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, due to their size, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale and, as a
result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than we can.  Our ability
to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things:   


 
•
 
 the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe,
sound assets;   


 
•
 
 the ability to expand our market position;   


 
•
 
 the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; 
 


 
•
 
 the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; 
 


 
•
 
 customer satisfaction with our level of service; and 
 


 
•
 
 industry and general economic trends.  Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  LIQUIDITY RISKS  Liquidity is essential to our businesses.  Our liquidity could be impaired
by an inability to access the capital markets or unforeseen outflows of cash. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or
us. Our efforts to monitor and manage liquidity risk may not be successful or sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated reductions in our liquidity. In such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest
income, or we may need to sell a portion of our investment and/or loan portfolio, which, depending upon market conditions, could result in us realizing a loss.  We may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.  We may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed,
will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and our financial performance.  In addition, we are highly regulated, and our regulators could require us to raise additional common equity in the future. We and our regulators perform a variety of analyses of our assets, including the
preparation of stress case scenarios, and as a result of those assessments we could determine, or our regulators could require us, to raise additional capital.  We cannot assure that such capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt purchasers,
depositors of the Bank or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely affect our capital costs and ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. An inability to raise additional
capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.  We rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue.  We
are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from dividends from our Bank subsidiary. These dividends are the principal source of funds we use to pay dividends on our common and preferred
stock, and to pay interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our Bank subsidiary and nonbank subsidiary may pay to us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of
assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors. In the event our bank subsidiary is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations,
or pay dividends on our common and preferred stock. The inability to receive dividends from our bank subsidiary could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 
  26 


RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK 
The market price for our common stock varies, and you should purchase common stock for long-term investment only. 
Although our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, we cannot assure you that there will, at any time in
the future, be an active trading market for our common stock. Even if there is an active trading market for our common stock, we cannot assure you that you will be able to sell all of your shares of common stock at one time or at a favorable price,
if at all. As a result, you should purchase shares of common stock described herein only if you are capable of, and seeking, to make a long-term investment in our common stock. 
We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common
stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock.  In the future,
we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of
secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt
and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions
and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our
securities in the future.  We may not pay dividends on our common stock. 
Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally
available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and may reduce or eliminate our common stock dividend in the future. This could adversely affect the market price of
our common stock.  Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. 
Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and federal and state banking laws, including regulatory approval
requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions may discourage others from initiating a potential merger,
takeover or other change of control transaction, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 
  27 




ITEM 1B.
UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  None.   


ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES  We own a 27,400 square foot building in Warsaw, New York that serves as our headquarters, and principal executive and administrative offices. Additionally, we are obligated under a lease commitment
through 2017 for a 17,750 square foot regional administrative facility in Pittsford, New York.  We are engaged in the banking
business through 50 branch offices, of which 33 are owned and 17 are leased, in fourteen contiguous counties of Western and Central New York: Allegany, Cattaraugus, Cayuga, Chautauqua, Chemung, Erie, Genesee, Livingston, Monroe, Ontario, Seneca,
Steuben, Wyoming and Yates Counties. The operating leases for our branch offices expire at various dates through the year 2036 and generally include options to renew.  We believe that our properties have been adequately maintained, are in good operating condition and are suitable for our business as presently conducted, including meeting the prescribed security
requirements. For additional information, see Note 5, Premises and Equipment, Net, and Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies, in the accompanying financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data”, all of which are included elsewhere in this report and incorporated herein by reference thereto.   


ITEM 3.
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS  From
time to time we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. Management does not believe that there is any pending or threatened proceeding against us, which, if determined adversely, would have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.   


ITEM 4.
MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES  Not applicable. 
  28 


PART II 
 


ITEM 5.
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol “FISI.” At December 31, 2011,
13,803,116 shares of our common stock were outstanding and held by approximately 1,400 shareholders of record. During 2011, the high sales price of our common stock was $20.36 and the low sales price was $12.18. The closing price per share of common
stock on December 31, 2011, the last trading day of our fiscal year, was $16.14. We declared dividends of $0.47 per common share during the year ended December 31, 2011. See additional information regarding the market price and dividends
paid in Part II, Item 6, “Selected Financial Data”.  We have paid regular quarterly cash dividends on our
common stock and our Board of Directors presently intends to continue this practice, subject to our results of operations and the need for those funds for debt service and other purposes. See the discussions in the section captioned
“Supervision and Regulation” included in Part I, Item 1, “Business”, in the section captioned “Liquidity and Capital Resources” included in Part II, Item 7, in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 10, Regulatory Matters, in the accompanying financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, all of which are included
elsewhere in this report and incorporated herein by reference thereto.  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 2011, information about our equity compensation plans that have been approved by
our shareholders, including the number of shares of our common stock exercisable under all outstanding options, warrants and rights, the weighted average exercise price of all outstanding options, warrants and rights and the number of shares
available for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. We have no equity compensation plans that have not been approved by our shareholders.   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 Plan Category
    
Number of securities tobe issued upon exerciseof outstanding
options,warrants and rights(a)
 
 
Weighted averageexercise priceof outstandingoptions, warrantsand rights(b)
 
 
Number of securitiesremaining for
futureissuance under equitycompensation plans(excluding securitiesreflected in column (a))(c)
 






 Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders
    
 
534,712 
(1) 
 
$
20.70 
(1) 
 
 
664,350 
(2) 

 Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders
    
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  


(1)
 Includes
166,654 shares of unvested restricted stock awards outstanding as of December 31, 2011. The weighted average exercise price excludes such awards. 
 


(2) 
 Represents the 940,000 aggregate shares approved for issuance under our two active equity compensation plans, reduced by 278,930 shares, which are
the 170,082 restricted stock awards issued under these plans to date plus an adjustment of 108,848 shares. Pursuant to the terms of the plans, for purposes of calculating the number of shares available for issuance, each share of common stock
granted pursuant to a restricted stock award shall count as 1.64 shares of common stock. 
  29 


Stock Performance Graph  The stock performance graph below compares (a) the cumulative total return on our common stock for the period beginning December 31, 2006 as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, through
December 31, 2011, (b) the cumulative total return on stocks included in the NASDAQ Composite Index over the same period, and (c) the cumulative total return, as compiled by SNL Financial L.C., of Major Exchange (NYSE, AMEX and
NASDAQ) Banks with $1 billion to $5 billion in assets over the same period. Cumulative return assumes the reinvestment of dividends. The graph was prepared by SNL Financial, LC and is expressed in dollars based on an assumed investment of $100.
   

  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Period Ending
 

 Index
    
12/31/06
 
    
12/31/07
 
    
12/31/08
 
    
12/31/09
 
    
12/31/10
 
    
12/31/11
 

 Financial Institutions, Inc.
    
 
100.00
  
    
 
79.17
  
    
 
65.84
  
    
 
56.47
  
    
 
93.13
  
    
 
81.59
  

 NASDAQ Composite
    
 
100.00
  
    
 
110.66
  
    
 
66.42
  
    
 
96.54
  
    
 
114.06
  
    
 
113.16
  

 SNL Bank $1B-$5B Index
    
 
100.00
  
    
 
72.84
  
    
 
60.42
  
    
 
43.31
  
    
 
49.09
  
    
 
44.77
  

  30 




ITEM 6.
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
 
At or for the year ended December 31,
 

 (Dollars in thousands, except selected ratios and per share data)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 








 Selected financial condition data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
 
$
2,336,353
  
 
$
2,214,307
  
 
$
2,062,389
  
 
$
1,916,919
  
 
$
1,857,876
  

 Loans, net
 
 
1,461,516
  
 
 
1,325,524
  
 
 
1,243,265
  
 
 
1,102,330
  
 
 
948,652
  

 Investment securities
 
 
650,815
  
 
 
694,530
  
 
 
620,074
  
 
 
606,038
  
 
 
754,720
  

 Deposits
 
 
1,931,599
  
 
 
1,882,890
  
 
 
1,742,955
  
 
 
1,633,263
  
 
 
1,575,971
  

 Borrowings
 
 
150,698
  
 
 
103,877
  
 
 
106,390
  
 
 
70,820
  
 
 
68,210
  

 Shareholders’ equity
 
 
237,194
  
 
 
212,144
  
 
 
198,294
  
 
 
190,300
  
 
 
195,322
  

 Common shareholders’ equity (1)
 
 
219,721
  
 
 
158,359
  
 
 
144,876
  
 
 
137,226
  
 
 
177,741
  

 Tangible common shareholders’ equity (2)
 
 
182,352
  
 
 
120,990
  
 
 
107,507
  
 
 
99,577
  
 
 
139,786
  








 Selected operations data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Interest income
 
$
95,118
  
 
$
96,509
  
 
$
94,482
  
 
$
98,948
  
 
$
105,212
  

 Interest expense
 
 
13,255
  
 
 
17,720
  
 
 
22,217
  
 
 
33,617
  
 
 
47,139
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest income
 
 
81,863
  
 
 
78,789
  
 
 
72,265
  
 
 
65,331
  
 
 
58,073
  

 Provision for loan losses
 
 
7,780
  
 
 
6,687
  
 
 
7,702
  
 
 
6,551
  
 
 
116
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net interest income after provision for loan losses
 
 
74,083
  
 
 
72,102
  
 
 
64,563
  
 
 
58,780
  
 
 
57,957
  

 Noninterest income (loss) (3)
 
 
23,925
  
 
 
19,454
  
 
 
18,795
  
 
 
(48,778
) 
 
 
20,680
  

 Noninterest expense
 
 
63,794
  
 
 
60,917
  
 
 
62,777
  
 
 
57,461
  
 
 
57,428
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) before income taxes
 
 
34,214
  
 
 
30,639
  
 
 
20,581
  
 
 
(47,459
) 
 
 
21,209
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
 
 
11,415
  
 
 
9,352
  
 
 
6,140
  
 
 
(21,301
) 
 
 
4,800
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
22,799
  
 
$
21,287
  
 
$
14,441
  
 
$
(26,158
) 
 
$
16,409
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Preferred stock dividends and accretion
 
 
3,182
  
 
 
3,725
  
 
 
3,697
  
 
 
1,538
  
 
 
1,483
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders
 
$
19,617
  
 
$
17,562
  
 
$
10,744
  
 
$
(27,696
) 
 
$
14,926
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Stock and related per share data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Earnings (loss) per common share:
 



 



 



 



 




 Basic
 
$
1.50
  
 
$
1.62
  
 
$
0.99
  
 
$
(2.54
) 
 
$
1.34
  

 Diluted
 
 
1.49
  
 
 
1.61
  
 
 
0.99
  
 
 
(2.54
) 
 
 
1.33
  

 Cash dividends declared on common stock
 
 
0.47
  
 
 
0.40
  
 
 
0.40
  
 
 
0.54
  
 
 
0.46
  

 Common book value per share (1)
 
 
15.92
  
 
 
14.48
  
 
 
13.39
  
 
 
12.71
  
 
 
16.14
  

 Tangible common book value per share (2)
 
 
13.21
  
 
 
11.06
  
 
 
9.94
  
 
 
9.22
  
 
 
12.69
  

 Market price (NASDAQ: FISI):
 



 



 



 



 




 High
 
 
20.36
  
 
 
20.74
  
 
 
15.99
  
 
 
22.50
  
 
 
23.71
  

 Low
 
 
12.18
  
 
 
10.91
  
 
 
3.27
  
 
 
10.06
  
 
 
16.18
  

 Close
 
 
16.14
  
 
 
18.97
  
 
 
11.78
  
 
 
14.35
  
 
 
17.82
  
  


(1)
 Excludes
preferred shareholders’ equity.   


(2)
 Excludes
preferred shareholders’ equity, goodwill and other intangible assets.   


(3) 
 The 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 figures include other-than-temporary impairment (“OTTI”) charges of $18 thousand, $594 thousand, $4.7
million and $68.2 million, respectively. There were no OTTI charges in 2007. 
  31 


 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
At or for the year ended December 31,
 

 (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 








 Selected financial ratios and other data:
    



 



 



 



 




 Performance ratios:
    



 



 



 



 




 Net income (loss), returns on:
    



 



 



 



 




 Average assets
    
 
1.00
% 
 
 
0.98
% 
 
 
0.71
% 
 
 
-1.37
% 
 
 
0.86
% 

 Average equity
    
 
9.82
  
 
 
10.07
  
 
 
7.43
  
 
 
-14.30
  
 
 
8.84
  

 Average common equity (1)
    
 
9.47
  
 
 
11.14
  
 
 
7.61
  
 
 
-16.84
  
 
 
8.89
  

 Average tangible common equity (2)
    
 
11.55
  
 
 
14.59
  
 
 
10.37
  
 
 
-21.87
  
 
 
11.50
  

 Common dividend payout ratio (3)
    
 
31.33
  
 
 
24.69
  
 
 
40.40
  
 
 
NA
  
 
 
34.33
  

 Net interest margin (fully tax-equivalent)
    
 
4.04
  
 
 
4.07
  
 
 
4.04
  
 
 
3.93
  
 
 
3.53
  

 Efficiency ratio (4)
    
 
60.55
% 
 
 
60.36
% 
 
 
65.52
% 
 
 
64.07
% 
 
 
68.77
% 








 Capital ratios:
    



 



 



 



 




 Leverage ratio
    
 
8.63
% 
 
 
8.31
% 
 
 
7.96
% 
 
 
8.05
% 
 
 
9.35
% 

 Tier 1 risk-based capital
    
 
12.20
  
 
 
12.34
  
 
 
11.95
  
 
 
11.83
  
 
 
15.74
  

 Total risk-based capital
    
 
13.45
  
 
 
13.60
  
 
 
13.21
  
 
 
13.08
  
 
 
16.99
  

 Equity to assets (5)
    
 
10.20
  
 
 
9.75
  
 
 
9.55
  
 
 
9.60
  
 
 
9.73
  

 Common equity to assets (1) (5)
    
 
9.10
  
 
 
7.28
  
 
 
6.94
  
 
 
8.63
  
 
 
8.81
  

 Tangible common equity to tangible assets (2) (5)
    
 
7.58
% 
 
 
5.65
% 
 
 
5.19
% 
 
 
6.78
% 
 
 
6.95
% 








 Asset quality:
    



 



 



 



 




 Non-performing loans
    
$
7,076
  
 
$
7,582
  
 
$
8,681
  
 
$
8,196
  
 
$
8,077
  

 Non-performing assets
    
 
9,187
  
 
 
8,895
  
 
 
10,442
  
 
 
9,252
  
 
 
9,498
  

 Allowance for loan losses
    
 
23,260
  
 
 
20,466
  
 
 
20,741
  
 
 
18,749
  
 
 
15,521
  

 Net loan charge-offs
    
$
4,986
  
 
$
6,962
  
 
$
5,710
  
 
$
3,323
  
 
$
1,643
  

 Non-performing loans to total loans
    
 
0.48
% 
 
 
0.56
% 
 
 
0.69
% 
 
 
0.73
% 
 
 
0.84
% 

 Non-performing assets to total assets
    
 
0.39
  
 
 
0.40
  
 
 
0.51
  
 
 
0.48
  
 
 
0.51
  

 Net charge-offs to average loans
    
 
0.36
  
 
 
0.54
  
 
 
0.47
  
 
 
0.32
  
 
 
0.18
  

 Allowance for loan losses to total loans
    
 
1.57
  
 
 
1.52
  
 
 
1.64
  
 
 
1.67
  
 
 
1.61
  

 Allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans
    
 
329
% 
 
 
270
% 
 
 
239
% 
 
 
229
% 
 
 
192
% 








 Other data:
    



 



 



 



 




 Number of branches
    
 
50
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
50
  
 
 
51
  
 
 
50
  

 Full time equivalent employees
    
 
575
  
 
 
577
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
600
  
 
 
621
  
  


(1) 
 Excludes preferred shareholders’ equity.   


(2)
 Excludes
preferred shareholders’ equity, goodwill and other intangible assets.   


(3)
 Common dividend
payout ratio equals dividends declared during the year divided by earnings per share for the year. There is no ratio shown for years where we both declared a dividend and incurred a loss because the ratio would result in a negative payout since the
dividend declared (paid out) will always be greater than 100% of earnings.   


(4) 
 Efficiency ratio equals noninterest expense less other real estate expense and amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of net revenue,
defined as the sum of tax-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income before net gains and impairment charges on investment securities and proceeds from company owned life insurance included in income (all from continuing operations).
  


(5)
 Ratios
calculated using average balances for the periods shown. 
  32 


SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 

  
    
 Fourth
 
    
 Third
 
    
 Second
 
    
 First
 

 (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
    
Quarter
 
    
Quarter
 
    
Quarter
 
    
Quarter
 

 Interest income
    
$
23,875
  
    
$
23,774
  
    
$
23,830
  
    
$
23,639
  

 Interest expense
    
 
2,721
  
    
 
3,156
  
    
 
3,577
  
    
 
3,801
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net interest income
    
 
21,154
  
    
 
20,618
  
    
 
20,253
  
    
 
19,838
  

 Provision for loan losses
    
 
2,162
  
    
 
3,480
  
    
 
1,328
  
    
 
810
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net interest income, after provision for loan losses
    
 
18,992
  
    
 
17,138
  
    
 
18,925
  
    
 
19,028
  

 Noninterest income
    
 
5,767
  
    
 
8,036
  
    
 
4,974
  
    
 
5,148
  

 Noninterest expense
    
 
16,279
  
    
 
17,012
  
    
 
15,153
  
    
 
15,350
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
    
 
8,480
  
    
 
8,162
  
    
 
8,746
  
    
 
8,826
  

 Income tax expense
    
 
2,718
  
    
 
2,664
  
    
 
3,027
  
    
 
3,006
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net income
    
$
5,762
  
    
$
5,498
  
    
$
5,719
  
    
$
5,820
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Preferred stock dividends
    
 
369
  
    
 
368
  
    
 
370
  
    
 
2,075
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to common shareholders
    
$
5,393
  
    
$
5,130
  
    
$
5,349
  
    
$
3,745
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 Earnings per common share (1):
    



    



    



    




 Basic
    
$
0.39
  
    
$
0.38
  
    
$
0.39
  
    
$
0.33
  

 Diluted
    
 
0.39
  
    
 
0.37
  
    
 
0.39
  
    
 
0.33
  

 Market price (NASDAQ: FISI):
    



    



    



    




 High
    
$
17.26
  
    
$
17.98
  
    
$
17.93
  
    
$
20.36
  

 Low
    
 
12.18
  
    
 
13.63
  
    
 
15.20
  
    
 
16.40
  

 Close
    
 
16.14
  
    
 
14.26
  
    
 
16.42
  
    
 
17.52
  

 Dividends declared
    
$
0.13
  
    
$
0.12
  
    
$
0.12
  
    
$
0.10
  
  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2010
 

 
    
Fourth
 
    
Third
 
    
Second
 
    
First
 

 (Dollars in thousands, except per share data)
    
Quarter
 
    
Quarter
 
    
Quarter
 
    
Quarter
 

 Interest income
    
$
24,297
  
    
$
24,186
  
    
$
24,202
  
    
$
23,824
  

 Interest expense
    
 
4,229
  
    
 
4,393
  
    
 
4,526
  
    
 
4,572
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net interest income
    
 
20,068
  
    
 
19,793
  
    
 
19,676
  
    
 
19,252
  

 Provision for loan losses
    
 
1,980
  
    
 
2,184
  
    
 
2,105
  
    
 
418
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net interest income, after provision for loan losses
    
 
18,088
  
    
 
17,609
  
    
 
17,571
  
    
 
18,834
  

 Noninterest income
    
 
5,274
  
    
 
5,131
  
    
 
4,966
  
    
 
4,083
  

 Noninterest expense
    
 
16,373
  
    
 
14,936
  
    
 
14,870
  
    
 
14,738
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
    
 
6,989
  
    
 
7,804
  
    
 
7,667
  
    
 
8,179
  

 Income tax expense
    
 
1,891
  
    
 
2,141
  
    
 
2,469
  
    
 
2,851
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net income
    
$
5,098
  
    
$
5,663
  
    
$
5,198
  
    
$
5,328
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Preferred stock dividends
    
 
933
  
    
 
932
  
    
 
931
  
    
 
929
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net income applicable to common shareholders
    
$
4,165
  
    
$
4,731
  
    
$
4,267
  
    
$
4,399
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 Earnings per common share (1):
    



    



    



    




 Basic
    
$
0.38
  
    
$
0.44
  
    
$
0.39
  
    
$
0.41
  

 Diluted
    
 
0.38
  
    
 
0.43
  
    
 
0.39
  
    
 
0.40
  

 Market price (NASDAQ: FISI):
    



    



    



    




 High
    
$
20.74
  
    
$
19.94
  
    
$
19.48
  
    
$
15.40
  

 Low
    
 
16.80
  
    
 
14.14
  
    
 
14.07
  
    
 
10.91
  

 Close
    
 
18.97
  
    
 
17.66
  
    
 
17.76
  
    
 
14.62
  

 Dividends declared
    
$
0.10
  
    
$
0.10
  
    
$
0.10
  
    
$
0.10
  
  


(1) 
 Earnings per share data is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per common share
amounts may not equal the total for the year. 
  33 


2011 FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS  Net income was $5.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with $5.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. After preferred dividends, fourth quarter diluted earnings per share for 2011 was
$0.39 compared with $0.38 per share for the fourth quarter of 2010.  Net interest income totaled $21.2 million for the three
months ended December 31, 2011, an increase of $1.1 million or 5% over the fourth quarter of 2010. Average earning assets increased $77.0 million during the fourth quarter 2011 compared to the same quarter last year, as a $127.4 million
increase in average loans was partially offset by a $50.4 million decrease in investment securities and interest earning deposits.  The net interest margin on a tax-equivalent basis was 4.07% in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with 4.01% in the fourth quarter of 2010. Our yield on earning-assets decreased 25 basis points in the
fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the same quarter last year. This was due to the effect of reinvesting cash flows in the low interest rate environment. The cost of interest-bearing liabilities decreased 38 basis points compared with the fourth
quarter of 2010, primarily a result of the redemption of our 10.20% junior subordinated debentures and the continued re-pricing of the our certificates of deposit.  The provision for loan losses was $2.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with $2.0 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. Net charge-offs were $1.9 million, or 0.51% annualized, of average
loans, up from $1.2 million, or 0.37% annualized, of average loans in the fourth quarter of 2010. Net charge-offs for the fourth quarter of 2011 includes $905 thousand for the charge-off of a commercial business relationship. See the sections
“Allowance for Loan Losses” and “Non-performing Assets and Potential Problem Loans” for additional information on net charge-offs and non-performing loans.  Noninterest income totaled $5.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, a 9% increase over the fourth quarter of 2010. The majority of the increase related to higher pre-tax net gains from the sale of
investment securities of $656 thousand during the fourth of quarter 2011 compared with $30 thousand during the fourth quarter of 2010.  Noninterest expense was $16.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, a decrease of $94 thousand million or 1% from the fourth quarter of 2010. 
Income tax expense for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $2.7 million compared to $1.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. The change in
income tax expense was primarily due to a $1.5 million increase in pretax income between the years. 
  34 




ITEM 7.
MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial position and results of operations and should be read in conjunction with
the information set forth under Part I, Item 1A, “Risks Factors”, and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing under Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this
report.  OVERVIEW 
Business Overview 
Financial Institutions, Inc. is a financial holding company headquartered in New York State, providing banking and nonbanking financial
services to individuals and businesses primarily in our Western and Central New York footprint. We have also expanded our indirect lending network to include relationships with franchised automobile dealers in the Capital District of New York and
Northern Pennsylvania. Through our wholly-owned banking subsidiary, Five Star Bank, we provide a wide range of services, including business and consumer loan and depository services, as well as other traditional banking services. Through our
nonbanking subsidiary, Five Star Investment Services, we provide brokerage and investment advisory services to supplement our banking business.  Our primary sources of revenue, are net interest income (predominantly from interest earned on our loans and securities, net of interest paid on deposits and other funding sources), and noninterest
income, particularly fees and other revenue from financial services provided to customers or ancillary services tied to loans and deposits. Business volumes and pricing drive revenue potential, and tend to be influenced by overall economic factors,
including market interest rates, business spending, consumer confidence, economic growth, and competitive conditions within the marketplace. We are not able to predict market interest rate fluctuations with certainty and our asset/liability
management strategy may not prevent interest rate changes from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Recent Developments  On January 19, 2012, Five Star Bank entered into
an agreement to acquire four retail banking branches currently owned by HSBC Bank USA, N.A. located in Elmira, Elmira Heights, Horseheads and Albion, New York and four retail banking branches currently owned by First Niagara Bank, N.A located in
Medina, Waterloo, Batavia and Brockport, New York. The deposits associated with these branches total approximately $376 million, while loans total approximately $94 million. The transactions are subject to customary closing conditions, including
regulatory approvals, and are expected to close by the end of the third quarter of this year.  2011 Significant Events 
Common Stock Offering. In March 2011, we completed the sale of 2,813,475 shares of our common stock through an underwritten public
offering at a price of $16.35 per share in an effort to restructure our capital position and improve the quality of our capital. The net proceeds of the offering, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, amounted
to $43.1 million. A portion of the proceeds from this offering was used to redeem our Series A preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures.  Redemption of Series A Preferred Stock. In March 2011, we completed the full redemption of our $37.5 million Series A preferred stock issued in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program.
The redemption resulted in a one-time, non-cash redemption charge of $1.2 million, reflecting the accelerated accretion of the remaining discount on the preferred stock, which reduced 2011 diluted earnings per common share by $0.09. 
The complete redemption of the Series A preferred stock removed the TARP restrictions pertaining to our ability to declare and pay
dividends and repurchase our common stock, as well as certain restrictions associated with executive compensation.  In May
2011, we repurchased the warrant to purchase up to 378,175 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $14.88 per share issued to the Treasury. The repurchase price of $2.1 million was recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital.
 Redemption of Junior Subordinated Debentures. In August 2011, we redeemed all of the 10.20% junior subordinated
debentures at a redemption price equaling 105.1% of the principal amount redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of the redemption, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.1 million, consisting of the redemption
premium of $852 thousand and a write-off of the remaining unamortized issuance costs of $231 thousand, which reduced 2011 diluted earnings per common share by $0.05. 
  35 


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
2011 Performance Summary 
Our net income was $22.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to a net income of $21.3 million for the year ended
December 31, 2010. For 2011, net income available to common shareholders was $19.6 million, or $1.49 per diluted common share. Net income available to common shareholders was $17.6 million for 2010, or $1.61 per diluted common share. Cash
dividends of $0.47 and $0.40 per common share were declared in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  We had total assets of $2.336
billion at December 31, 2011 compared to $2.214 billion at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, shareholders’ equity totaled $237.2 million with book value per common share at $15.92, compared to $212.1 million with book
value per common share at $14.48 at the end of 2010. Tangible common equity to tangible common assets improved to 7.58% during 2011 from 5.65% in 2010. The Tier 1 capital ratio was 12.20% as of December 31, 2011 compared to 12.34% at
December 31, 2010.  Key factors behind these results are discussed below. 
 


 
•
 
 At December 31, 2011, loans were $1.485 billion, up 10% from year-end 2010, primarily in commercial and consumer indirect loans, as we have
focused our business development efforts in these areas in accordance with our strategic objectives. Total deposits at December 31, 2011, were $1.932 billion, up 3% from year-end 2010, primarily attributable to a $40.7 million increase in
retail deposits. Our deposit mix remains favorably weighted in lower cost demand, savings and money market accounts, which comprised 64% of total deposits at the end of 2011. 
 


 
•
 
 Nonperforming loans were $7.1 million at December 31, 2011, compared to $7.6 million at December 31, 2010, as our loan portfolio continues
to benefit from responsible underwriting and lending practices.   


 
•
 
 The provision for loan losses was $7.8 million and $6.7 million, respectively, for 2011 and 2010. Net charge-offs were $5.0 million in 2011 (or
0.36% of average loans) compared to $7.0 million in 2010 (or 0.54% of average loans).   


 
•
 
 At year-end 2011, the allowance for loan losses of $23.3 million represented 1.57% of total loans (covering 329% of non-performing loans), compared
to $20.5 million or 1.52% (covering 270% of non-performing loans) at year-end 2010.   


 
•
 
 Taxable equivalent net interest income was $83.9 million for 2011 or 4% higher than $80.7 million in 2010. Taxable equivalent interest income
decreased $1.2 million, while interest expense decreased by $4.5 million. The increase in taxable equivalent net interest income was a function of a favorable volume variance (increasing taxable equivalent net interest income by $7.8 million),
partially offset by an unfavorable rate variance (decreasing taxable equivalent net interest income by $4.5 million).   


 
•
 
 The net interest margin for 2011 was 4.04%, 3 basis points lower than 4.07% in 2010. 
 


 
•
 
 Noninterest income was $23.9 million for 2011 compared to $19.5 million for 2010. Core fee-based revenues (defined as service charges on deposit
accounts, ATM and debit fees, and broker-dealer fees and commissions) totaled $14.9 million, unchanged from 2010. Net mortgage banking income was $1.7 million for 2011, a slight decrease from $1.8 million in 2010. 
 


 
•
 
 Net investment securities gains (defined as net gain on sales and calls of investment securities and impairment charges on investment securities)
were $3.0 million for 2011, compared to net investment securities losses of $425 thousand for 2010. During 2011 we recognized an additional $2.8 million in gains from the sale of investment securities and $576 thousand less in impairment charges
than in 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to the net gain we experienced in 2011 in sales and calls of investment securities that included a gain of $2.3 million achieved on the sale of four pooled trust preferred securities that had
previously been written down.   


 
•
 
 Noninterest expense for 2011 was $63.8 million, an increase of $2.9 million or 5% over 2010. Salaries and employee benefits increased $2.6 million,
professional services increased by $420 thousand and we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.1 million as a result of redeeming our 10.20% junior subordinated debentures. FDIC assessments decreased by $1.0 million and other noninterest
expense decreased by $404 thousand. As previously disclosed, other noninterest expense for 2010 includes $1.0 million of losses relating to irregular instances of fraudulent debit card activity. 
 


 
•
 
 The efficiency ratio was 60.55% for 2011 and 60.36% for 2010. 
 


 
•
 
 Income tax expense for 2011 was $11.4 million compared to $9.4 million for 2010. The change in income tax expense was primarily due to a $3.6
million increase in pretax income between the years. 
  36 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED  DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010  Net Interest Income and Net Interest
Margin  Net interest income is the primary source of our revenue. Net interest income is the difference between interest
income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest expense on interest-bearing deposits and other borrowings used to fund interest-earning and other assets or activities. Net interest income is affected by
changes in interest rates and by the amount and composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as the sensitivity of the balance sheet to changes in interest rates, including characteristics such as the fixed or variable
nature of the financial instruments, contractual maturities and repricing frequencies.  Interest rate spread and net interest
margin are utilized to measure and explain changes in net interest income. Interest rate spread is the difference between the yield on earning assets and the rate paid for interest-bearing liabilities that fund those assets. The net interest margin
is expressed as the percentage of net interest income to average earning assets. The net interest margin exceeds the interest rate spread because noninterest-bearing sources of funds (“net free funds”), principally noninterest-bearing
demand deposits and stockholders’ equity, also support earning assets. To compare tax-exempt asset yields to taxable yields, the yield on tax-exempt investment securities is computed on a taxable equivalent basis. Net interest income, interest
rate spread, and net interest margin are discussed on a taxable equivalent basis.  The following table reconciles interest
income per the consolidated statements of income to interest income adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent basis for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Interest income per consolidated statements of income
    
$
95,118
  
    
$
96,509
  
    
$
94,482
  

 Adjustment to fully taxable equivalent basis
    
 
2,062
  
    
 
1,895
  
    
 
2,692
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Interest income adjusted to a fully taxable equivalent basis
    
 
97,180
  
    
 
98,404
  
    
 
97,174
  

 Interest expense per consolidated statement of income
    
 
13,255
  
    
 
17,720
  
    
 
22,217
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net interest income on a taxable equivalent basis
    
$
83,925
  
    
$
80,684
  
    
$
74,957
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 Taxable equivalent net interest income of $83.9 million for 2011 was $3.2 million or 4% higher than 2010.
The impact of a decline in average yields on our assets was diminished by a 5% increase in interest-earning assets. The average balance of loans rose $98.4 million or 8% to $1.394 billion, reflecting growth in the commercial and consumer indirect
loan portfolios, and the average balance of interest-earning assets rose $98.6 million to $2.080 billion. Consistent with our strategic plan, we continue to pursue loan development efforts in the commercial and consumer indirect lending portfolios
in accordance with prudent underwriting standards.  The increase in taxable equivalent net interest income was a function of a
favorable volume variance (as balance sheet changes in both volume and mix increased taxable equivalent net interest income by $7.8 million), partially offset by an unfavorable rate variance (decreasing taxable equivalent net interest income by $4.5
million). The change in mix and volume of earning assets increased taxable equivalent interest income by $6.3 million, while the change in volume and composition of interest-bearing liabilities decreased interest expense by $1.5 million, for a net
favorable volume impact of $7.8 million on taxable equivalent net interest income. Rate changes on earning assets reduced interest income by $7.4 million, while changes in rates on interest-bearing liabilities lowered interest expense by $2.9
million, for a net unfavorable rate impact of $4.5 million.  The net interest margin for 2011 was 4.04% compared to 4.07% in 2010. 
The slight decrease in net interest margin was attributable to a 3 basis point lower contribution from net free funds (primarily
attributable to lower rates on interest-bearing liabilities reducing the value of noninterest-bearing deposits and other net free funds). The interest rate spread remained unchanged from the year ended December 31, 2010 at 3.87%, as a 30 basis
point decrease in the yield on earning assets offset the 30 basis point decrease in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. 
The Federal Reserve left the Federal funds rate unchanged at 0.25% during 2011 and 2010. During 2011, the Federal Reserve disclosed that
short-term interest rates would be held near zero through at least the middle of 2013, in anticipation of low growth and little risk of inflation. In January 2012, the Federal Reserve further announced that it is unlikely that the short-term
interest rates will increase until at least 2014. 
  37 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
For 2011, the yield on average earning assets of 4.67% was 30 basis points lower than
2010. Loan yields decreased 33 basis points to 5.53%. Commercial mortgage and consumer indirect loans in particular, down 31 and 66 basis points, respectively, continued to experience lower yields given the competitive pricing pressures and
re-pricing of loans in a low interest rate environment. The yield on investment securities dropped 38 basis points to 2.93%, also impacted by the lower interest rate environment and prepayments of mortgage-related investment securities. Overall,
earning asset rate changes reduced interest income by $7.5 million.  The cost of average interest-bearing liabilities of 0.80%
in 2011 was 30 basis points lower than 2010. The average cost of interest-bearing deposits was 0.74% in 2011, 23 basis points lower than 2010, reflecting the low-rate environment, mitigated by a focus on product pricing to retain balances. The cost
of borrowings decreased 175 basis points to 1.58% for 2011, primarily a result of the redemption of the 10.20% junior subordinated debentures. The interest-bearing liability rate changes reduced interest expense by $2.9 million. 
Average interest-earning assets of $2.080 billion in 2011 were $98.6 million or 5% higher than 2010. Average investment securities
increased $5.0 million while average loans increased $98.4 million or 8%. Commercial loans increased $42.1 million and consumer loans increased $73.5 million, offset by a $17.2 million decrease in residential mortgage loans. 
Average interest-bearing liabilities of $1.662 billion in 2011 were up $51.6 million or 3% versus 2010. The impacts of the recent
recession have positively impacted our deposit balances, as consumers tend to save more when consumer confidence is low. On average, interest-bearing deposits grew $22.8 million, while average noninterest-bearing demand deposits (a principal
component of net free funds) increased by $38.4 million. Average borrowings increased $28.9 million, representing a $50.0 million increase and $21.1 million decrease in short-term and long-term borrowings, respectively. 
  38 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
The following tables present, for the periods indicated, information regarding:
(i) the average balance sheet; (ii) the amount of interest income from interest-earning assets and the resulting annualized yields (tax-exempt yields have been adjusted to a tax-equivalent basis using the applicable Federal tax rate in
each year); (iii) the amount of interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities and the resulting annualized rates; (iv) net interest income; (v) net interest rate spread; (vi) net interest income as a percentage of average
interest-earning assets (“net interest margin”); and (vii) the ratio of average interest-earning assets to average interest-bearing liabilities. Investment securities are at amortized cost for both held to maturity and available for
sale securities. Loans include net unearned income, net deferred loan fees and costs and non-accruing loans. Dollar amounts are shown in thousands.   





XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX


 
 
Years ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
Average
 
 
 
 
 
Average
 
 
Average
 
 
 
 
 
Average
 
 
Average
 
 
 
 
 
Average
 

 
 
Balance
 
 
Interest
 
 
Rate
 
 
Balance
 
 
Interest
 
 
Rate
 
 
Balance
 
 
Interest
 
 
Rate
 

 Interest-earning assets:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Federal funds sold and other interest-earning deposits
 
$
140
  
 
$
—  
  
 
 
0.20
% 
 
$
5,034
  
 
$
10
  
 
 
0.21
% 
 
$
37,214
  
 
$
82
  
 
 
0.22
% 

 Investment securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Taxable
 
 
545,112
  
 
 
14,185
  
 
 
2.60
  
 
 
571,856
  
 
 
17,101
  
 
 
2.99
  
 
 
454,552
  
 
 
16,466
  
 
 
3.62
  

 Tax-exempt
 
 
140,657
  
 
 
5,890
  
 
 
4.19
  
 
 
108,900
  
 
 
5,416
  
 
 
4.97
  
 
 
155,054
  
 
 
7,920
  
 
 
5.11
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
 
 
685,769
  
 
 
20,075
  
 
 
2.93
  
 
 
680,756
  
 
 
22,517
  
 
 
3.31
  
 
 
609,606
  
 
 
24,386
  
 
 
4.00
  

 Loans:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Commercial business
 
 
215,598
  
 
 
10,311
  
 
 
4.78
  
 
 
206,167
  
 
 
9,939
  
 
 
4.82
  
 
 
204,235
  
 
 
9,612
  
 
 
4.71
  

 Commercial mortgage
 
 
370,843
  
 
 
21,216
  
 
 
5.72
  
 
 
338,149
  
 
 
20,389
  
 
 
6.03
  
 
 
306,763
  
 
 
19,309
  
 
 
6.29
  

 Residential mortgage
 
 
121,742
  
 
 
6,868
  
 
 
5.64
  
 
 
138,954
  
 
 
8,157
  
 
 
5.87
  
 
 
161,055
  
 
 
9,701
  
 
 
6.02
  

 Home equity
 
 
216,428
  
 
 
9,572
  
 
 
4.42
  
 
 
202,189
  
 
 
9,224
  
 
 
4.56
  
 
 
193,929
  
 
 
9,121
  
 
 
4.70
  

 Consumer indirect
 
 
444,527
  
 
 
26,549
  
 
 
5.97
  
 
 
382,977
  
 
 
25,379
  
 
 
6.63
  
 
 
313,239
  
 
 
21,838
  
 
 
6.97
  

 Other consumer
 
 
24,686
  
 
 
2,589
  
 
 
10.49
  
 
 
26,950
  
 
 
2,789
  
 
 
10.35
  
 
 
30,791
  
 
 
3,125
  
 
 
10.15
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 
1,393,824
  
 
 
77,105
  
 
 
5.53
  
 
 
1,295,386
  
 
 
75,877
  
 
 
5.86
  
 
 
1,210,012
  
 
 
72,706
  
 
 
6.01
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets
 
 
2,079,733
  
 
 
97,180
  
 
 
4.67
  
 
 
1,981,176
  
 
 
98,404
  
 
 
4.97
  
 
 
1,856,832
  
 
 
97,174
  
 
 
5.23
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Less: Allowance for loan losses
 
 
21,567
  
 



 



 
 
20,883
  
 



 



 
 
20,355
  
 



 















 Other noninterest-earning assets
 
 
218,983
  
 



 



 
 
206,303
  
 



 



 
 
197,439
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total assets
 
$
2,277,149
  
 



 



 
$
2,166,596
  
 



 



 
$
2,033,916
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 















 Interest-bearing liabilities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Deposits:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing demand
 
$
383,122
  
 
 
614
  
 
 
0.16
  
 
$
382,517
  
 
 
705
  
 
 
0.18
  
 
$
365,873
  
 
 
772
  
 
 
0.21
  

 Savings and money market
 
 
451,030
  
 
 
1,056
  
 
 
0.23
  
 
 
414,953
  
 
 
1,133
  
 
 
0.27
  
 
 
383,697
  
 
 
1,090
  
 
 
0.28
  

 Certificates of deposit
 
 
712,411
  
 
 
9,764
  
 
 
1.37
  
 
 
726,330
  
 
 
13,015
  
 
 
1.79
  
 
 
685,259
  
 
 
17,228
  
 
 
2.51
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
 
 
1,546,563
  
 
 
11,434
  
 
 
0.74
  
 
 
1,523,800
  
 
 
14,853
  
 
 
0.97
  
 
 
1,434,829
  
 
 
19,090
  
 
 
1.33
  

 Short-term borrowings
 
 
99,122
  
 
 
500
  
 
 
0.50
  
 
 
49,104
  
 
 
365
  
 
 
0.74
  
 
 
43,092
  
 
 
270
  
 
 
0.63
  

 Long-term borrowings
 
 
15,905
  
 
 
1,321
  
 
 
8.31
  
 
 
37,043
  
 
 
2,502
  
 
 
6.75
  
 
 
46,913
  
 
 
2,857
  
 
 
6.09
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
 
 
115,027
  
 
 
1,821
  
 
 
1.58
  
 
 
86,147
  
 
 
2,867
  
 
 
3.33
  
 
 
90,005
  
 
 
3,127
  
 
 
3.47
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
1,661,590
  
 
 
13,255
  
 
 
0.80
  
 
 
1,609,947
  
 
 
17,720
  
 
 
1.10
  
 
 
1,524,834
  
 
 
22,217
  
 
 
1.46
  


 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Noninterest-bearing deposits
 
 
368,268
  
 



 



 
 
329,853
  
 



 



 
 
293,852
  
 



 




 Other liabilities
 
 
15,041
  
 



 



 
 
15,485
  
 



 



 
 
20,890
  
 



 




 Shareholders’ equity
 
 
232,250
  
 



 



 
 
211,311
  
 



 



 
 
194,340
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
 
$
2,277,149
  
 



 



 
$
2,166,596
  
 



 



 
$
2,033,916
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Net interest income (tax-equivalent)
 



 
$
83,925
  
 



 



 
$
80,684
  
 



 



 
$
74,957
  
 





 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 




 Interest rate spread
 



 



 
 
3.87
% 
 



 



 
 
3.87
% 
 



 



 
 
3.77
% 


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Net earning assets
 
$
418,143
  
 



 



 
$
371,229
  
 



 



 
$
331,998
  
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




 Net interest margin (tax-equivalent)
 



 



 
 
4.04
% 
 



 



 
 
4.07
% 
 



 



 
 
4.04
% 


 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 

 Ratio of average interest-earning assets to average interest-bearing liabilities
 
 
125.17
% 
 



 



 
 
123.06
% 
 



 



 
 
121.77
% 
 



 





 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 



 
  
  
 
 



 




  39 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Rate /Volume Analysis  The following table presents, on a tax-equivalent basis, the relative contribution of changes in volumes and changes in rates to changes in net interest income for the periods indicated. The change in
interest not solely due to changes in volume or rate has been allocated in proportion to the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Change from 2011 to 2010
 
  
Change from 2010 to 2009
 

  
    
Volume
 
  
Rate
 
  
Total
 
  
Volume
 
  
Rate
 
  
Total
 

 Increase (decrease) in:
    



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest income:
    



  



  



  



  



  




 Federal funds sold and other interest-earning deposits
    
$
(5
) 
  
$
(5
) 
  
$
(10
) 
  
$
(65
) 
  
$
(7
) 
  
$
(72
) 

 Investment securities:
    



  



  



  



  



  




 Taxable
    
 
(772
) 
  
 
(2,144
) 
  
 
(2,916
) 
  
 
3,807
  
  
 
(3,172
) 
  
 
635
  

 Tax-exempt
    
 
1,418
  
  
 
(944
) 
  
 
474
  
  
 
(2,300
) 
  
 
(204
) 
  
 
(2,504
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
    
 
646
  
  
 
(3,088
) 
  
 
(2,442
) 
  
 
1,507
  
  
 
(3,376
) 
  
 
(1,869
) 

 Loans:
    



  



  



  



  



  




 Commercial business
    
 
452
  
  
 
(80
) 
  
 
372
  
  
 
92
  
  
 
235
  
  
 
327
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
1,905
  
  
 
(1,078
) 
  
 
827
  
  
 
1,916
  
  
 
(836
) 
  
 
1,080
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
(980
) 
  
 
(309
) 
  
 
(1,289
) 
  
 
(1,302
) 
  
 
(242
) 
  
 
(1,544
) 

 Home equity
    
 
636
  
  
 
(288
) 
  
 
348
  
  
 
382
  
  
 
(279
) 
  
 
103
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
3,829
  
  
 
(2,659
) 
  
 
1,170
  
  
 
4,665
  
  
 
(1,124
) 
  
 
3,541
  

 Other consumer
    
 
(237
) 
  
 
37
  
  
 
(200
) 
  
 
(396
) 
  
 
60
  
  
 
(336
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total loans
    
 
5,605
  
  
 
(4,377
) 
  
 
1,228
  
  
 
5,357
  
  
 
(2,186
) 
  
 
3,171
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest income
    
 
6,246
  
  
 
(7,470
) 
  
 
(1,224
) 
  
 
6,799
  
  
 
(5,569
) 
  
 
1,230
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Interest expense:
    



  



  



  



  



  




 Deposits:
    



  



  



  



  



  




 Interest-bearing demand
    
 
1
  
  
 
(92
) 
  
 
(91
) 
  
 
34
  
  
 
(101
) 
  
 
(67
) 

 Savings and money market
    
 
93
  
  
 
(170
) 
  
 
(77
) 
  
 
86
  
  
 
(43
) 
  
 
43
  

 Certificates of deposit
    
 
(245
) 
  
 
(3,006
) 
  
 
(3,251
) 
  
 
982
  
  
 
(5,195
) 
  
 
(4,213
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing deposits
    
 
(151
) 
  
 
(3,268
) 
  
 
(3,419
) 
  
 
1,102
  
  
 
(5,339
) 
  
 
(4,237
) 

 Short-term borrowings
    
 
281
  
  
 
(146
) 
  
 
135
  
  
 
41
  
  
 
54
  
  
 
95
  

 Long-term borrowings
    
 
(1,662
) 
  
 
481
  
  
 
(1,181
) 
  
 
(644
) 
  
 
289
  
  
 
(355
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
    
 
(1,381
) 
  
 
335
  
  
 
(1,046
) 
  
 
(603
) 
  
 
343
  
  
 
(260
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest expense
    
 
(1,532
) 
  
 
(2,933
) 
  
 
(4,465
) 
  
 
499
  
  
 
(4,996
) 
  
 
(4,497
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 









 Net interest income
    
$
7,778
  
  
$
(4,537
) 
  
$
3,241
  
  
$
6,300
  
  
$
(573
) 
  
$
5,727
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  40 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Provision for Loan Losses 
The provision for loan losses is based upon credit loss experience, growth or contraction of specific segments of the loan portfolio, and
the estimate of losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The provision for loan losses was $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared with $6.7 million for 2010. See the “Allowance for Loan Losses” section of
this Management’s Discussion and Analysis for further discussion.  Noninterest Income 
The following table summarizes our noninterest income for the years ended December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Service charges on deposits
    
$
8,679
  
  
$
9,585
  
  
$
10,065
  

 ATM and debit card
    
 
4,359
  
  
 
3,995
  
  
 
3,610
  

 Broker-dealer fees and commissions
    
 
1,829
  
  
 
1,283
  
  
 
1,022
  

 Company owned life insurance
    
 
1,424
  
  
 
1,107
  
  
 
1,096
  

 Loan servicing
    
 
835
  
  
 
1,124
  
  
 
1,308
  

 Net gain on sale of loans held for sale
    
 
880
  
  
 
650
  
  
 
699
  

 Net gain on sales and calls of investment securities
    
 
3,003
  
  
 
169
  
  
 
3,429
  

 Impairment charges on investment securities
    
 
(18
) 
  
 
(594
) 
  
 
(4,666
) 

 Net gain (loss) on sale and disposal of other assets
    
 
67
  
  
 
(203
) 
  
 
180
  

 Other
    
 
2,867
  
  
 
2,338
  
  
 
2,052
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total noninterest income
    
$
23,925
  
  
$
19,454
  
  
$
18,795
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The components of noninterest income fluctuated as discussed below. 
Service charges on deposits were $8.7 million in 2011, which was $906 thousand or 9% lower than 2010. The decrease was primarily due to
changes in customer behavior and recent regulatory changes that include requirements for customers to opt in for overdraft coverage for certain types of electronic banking activities. 
ATM and debit card income was $4.4 million for 2011, an increase of $364 thousand or 9%, compared to 2010. The increased popularity of
electronic banking and transaction processing has resulted in higher ATM and debit card point-of-sale usage income. 
Broker-dealer fees and commissions were up $546 thousand or 43%, compared to 2010. Broker-dealer fees and commissions fluctuate mainly
due to sales volume, which increased during 2011 as a result of improving market and economic conditions and our renewed focus on this line of business.  Company owned life insurance income was up $317 thousand or 29% for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. The increase was the result of an additional $18.0 million
investment in company owned life insurance during the third quarter of 2011.  Loan servicing income represents fees earned for
servicing mortgage and indirect auto loans sold to third parties, net of amortization expense and impairment losses, if any, associated with capitalized loan servicing assets. Loan servicing income was down $289 thousand or 26% the year ended
December 31, 2011 compared to 2010. Loan servicing income decreased as a result of more rapid amortization of servicing rights due to loans paying off, lower fees collected due to a decrease in the sold and serviced portfolio and write-downs on
capitalized mortgage servicing assets.  Net gain on loans held for sale was $880 thousand in 2011, an increase of $230
thousand or 35%, compared to 2010, mainly due to the $153 thousand gain relating to the servicing retained sale of $13.0 million of indirect auto loans during the third quarter of 2011. 
Net gains from the sales of investment securities were $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $169 thousand
in 2010. The current year includes net gains of $2.3 million from the sale of four pooled trust-preferred securities that had been written down in prior periods and included in non-performing assets. We continue to monitor the market for the
trust-preferred securities and evaluate the potential for future dispositions. Net gains of $730 thousand from the sale of eight mortgage-backed securities were also recognized during 2011. The amount and timing of our sale of investments securities
is dependent on a number of factors, including our prudent efforts to realize gains while managing duration, premium and credit risk.  Other noninterest income increased $529 thousand or 23% for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 2010. Other noninterest income for 2011 includes $152 thousand related to insurance proceeds
received for losses relating to an irregular instance of fraudulent debit card activity recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010. Merchant services fees paid by customers for account management and electronic processing of transactions and income from
our capital investment in several limited partnerships also contributed to the 2011 increases. 
  41 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Noninterest Expense  The following table summarizes our noninterest expense for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Salaries and employee benefits
    
$
35,439
  
    
$
32,811
  
    
$
33,634
  

 Occupancy and equipment
    
 
10,868
  
    
 
10,818
  
    
 
11,062
  

 Computer and data processing
    
 
2,437
  
    
 
2,487
  
    
 
2,340
  

 Professional services
    
 
2,617
  
    
 
2,197
  
    
 
2,524
  

 Supplies and postage
    
 
1,778
  
    
 
1,772
  
    
 
1,846
  

 FDIC assessments
    
 
1,513
  
    
 
2,507
  
    
 
3,651
  

 Advertising and promotions
    
 
1,259
  
    
 
1,121
  
    
 
949
  

 Loss on extinguishment of debt
    
 
1,083
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  

 Other
    
 
6,800
  
    
 
7,204
  
    
 
6,771
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total noninterest expense
    
$
63,794
  
    
$
60,917
  
    
$
62,777
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 The components of noninterest expense fluctuated as discussed below. 
Salaries and employee benefits (which includes salary-related expenses and fringe benefit expenses) was $35.4 million for 2011, up $2.6
million or 8% from 2010. Average full-time equivalent employees (“FTEs”) were 576 for 2011, about the same as 577 for last year. Salary-related expenses increased $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 2010,
reflecting an increase in estimated incentive compensation, which was previously limited under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Fringe benefit expenses increased $672 thousand or 9%, primarily attributable to higher medical expenses. 
Professional services expense of $2.6 million in 2011 increased $420 thousand or 19% from 2010. Professional fees increased primarily due
to legal and shareholder expenses related to our common stock offering and redemption of both our Series A preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures.  FDIC assessments decreased $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 2010, primarily a result of changes implemented by the FDIC in the method of calculating assessment rates
which became effective in the second quarter of 2011.  Advertising and promotions expenses were $138 thousand or 12% higher in
2011 compared to 2010 due to increases in business development expenses and the opening of a new branch in suburban Rochester in the third quarter of 2011.  We redeemed all of the 10.20% junior subordinated debentures during 2011. As a result of the redemption, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.1 million, consisting of a redemption premium
of $852 thousand and a write-off of the remaining unamortized issuance costs of $231 thousand.  Other noninterest expense
decreased $404 thousand or 6% during 2011 compared to 2010. The 2010 expense includes a loss of approximately $1.0 million relating to irregular instances of fraudulent debit card activity. 
The efficiency ratio for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 60.55% compared with 60.36% for 2010. The efficiency ratio is a
supplemental financial measure utilized in management’s internal evaluations and is not defined under generally accepted accounting principles. The efficiency ratio is calculated by dividing total noninterest expense, excluding other real
estate expense, by net revenue, defined as the sum of tax-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income before net gains and impairment charges on investment securities. Taxes are not part of this calculation. An increase in the efficiency
ratio indicates that more resources are being utilized to generate the same volume of income, while a decrease would indicate a more efficient allocation of resources.  Income Taxes  We recognized income tax expense of $11.4 million for 2011
compared to $9.4 million for 2010. The change was due in part to a $3.6 million increase in pretax income between the years. In addition, during 2010, we recorded non-recurring tax benefits of $1.2 million related to valuation of our deferred tax
assets as a result of the NYS repeal of the experience method for determining bad debts and re-valuing at the highest Federal statutory rate of 35%. Our effective tax rates were 33.4% in 2011 and 30.5% in 2010. Effective tax rates are affected by
income and expense items that are not subject to Federal or state taxation. Our income tax provision reflects the impact of such items, including tax-exempt interest income from municipal securities, tax-exempt earnings on bank-owned life insurance
and the effect of certain state tax credits. 
  42 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED 
DECEMBER 31, 2010 AND DECEMBER 31, 2009  Net Interest Income and Net Interest Margin  Net interest income in the
consolidated statements of income (which excludes the taxable equivalent adjustment) was $78.8 million in 2010, compared to $72.3 million in 2009. The taxable equivalent adjustments (the adjustments to bring tax-exempt interest to a level that would
yield the same after-tax income had that income been subject to a taxation using a tax rate of 35% for 2010 and 34% for 2009) of $1.9 million and $2.7 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulted in fully taxable equivalent net interest income
of $80.7 million in 2010 and $75.0 million in 2009.  Taxable equivalent net interest income of $80.7 million for 2010 was $5.7
million or 8% higher than 2009. While the average yields on our loans and assets declined, the impact was far exceeded by the benefit of substantial loan production and asset growth. The average balance of loans rose $85.4 million to $1.295 billion,
reflecting growth in the commercial and consumer indirect loan portfolios, as we have focused business development efforts in those areas, and the average balance of interest-earning assets rose $124.3 million to $1.981 billion, both increases of
7%.  The increase in taxable equivalent net interest income was a function of a favorable volume variance (because balance
sheet changes in both volume and mix increased taxable equivalent net interest income by $6.3 million), partially offset by an unfavorable rate variance (decreasing taxable equivalent net interest income by $573 thousand). The change in mix and
volume of earning assets increased taxable equivalent interest income by $6.8 million, while the change in volume and composition of interest-bearing liabilities increased interest expense by $499 thousand, for a net favorable volume impact of $6.3
million on taxable equivalent net interest income. Rate changes on earning assets reduced interest income by $5.6 million, while changes in rates on interest-bearing liabilities lowered interest expense by $5.0 million, for a net unfavorable rate
impact of $573 thousand.  The net interest margin for 2010 was 4.07% compared to 4.04% in 2009. The 3 basis point improvement
in net interest margin was attributable to a 10 basis point increase in interest rate spread (the net of a 36 basis point decrease in the cost of interest-bearing liabilities and a 26 basis decrease in the yield on earning assets), partially offset
by a 7 basis point lower contribution from net free funds (primarily attributable to lower rates on interest-bearing liabilities reducing the relative value of noninterest-bearing deposits and other net free funds). 
The Federal Reserve left the Federal funds rate unchanged at 0.25% during 2010 and 2009. 
For 2010, the yield on average earning assets of 4.97% was 26 basis points lower than 2009. Loan yields decreased 15 basis points to
5.86%. Commercial mortgage and consumer indirect loans in particular, down 26 and 34 basis points, respectively, experienced lower yields given the competitive pricing pressures in a low interest rate environment. The yield on investment securities
dropped 69 basis points to 3.31%, also impacted by the lower interest rate environment and prepayments of mortgage-related investment securities. Overall, earning asset rate changes reduced interest income by $5.6 million. 
The cost of average interest-bearing liabilities of 1.10% in 2010 was 36 basis points lower than 2009. The average cost of
interest-bearing deposits was 0.97% in 2010, 36 basis points lower than 2009, reflecting the lower rate environment, mitigated by a focus on product pricing to retain balances. The cost of wholesale funding (comprised of short-term borrowings and
long-term borrowings) decreased 14 basis points to 3.33% for 2010. The interest-bearing liability rate changes resulted in $5.0 million lower interest expense.  Average interest-earning assets of $1.981 billion in 2010 were $124.3 million or 7% higher than 2009. Average investment securities increased $71.2 million, mostly in high quality U.S. Government agency
securities. Average loans increased $85.4 million or 7%, with a $33.3 million increase in commercial loans and a $74.2 million increase in consumer loans, offset by a $22.1 million decrease in residential mortgage loans. 
Average interest-bearing liabilities of $1.610 billion in 2010 were up $85.1 million or 6% versus 2009, mainly attributable to higher
average retail deposit balances. The impacts of the recent recession have had a positive impact on our deposit balances, as consumers tend to save more conservatively when consumer confidence is low. On average, interest-bearing deposits grew $89.0
million, while average noninterest-bearing demand deposits (a principal component of net free funds) increased by $36.0 million. Average borrowings decreased $3.9 million, net of the $6.0 million increase and $9.9 million decrease in short-term and
long-term borrowings, respectively.  Provision for Loan Losses  The provision for loan losses was $6.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared with $7.7 million for 2009. 
  43 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Noninterest Income  Service charges on deposits were $9.6 million in 2010, which was $480 thousand or 5% lower than 2009. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower nonsufficient funds fees in 2010, which were down
$407 thousand to $7.9 million. In November 2009, the FRB issued a final rule that, effective July 1, 2010, prohibited financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card
transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions, commonly referred to as “Reg.-E”. Consumers must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft
services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices.  ATM and debit card income was $4.0
million for 2010, an increase of $385 thousand or 11%, compared to 2009, due to higher interchange fees resulting from an increase in the number of cardholders and an increase in customer transactions. 
Broker-dealer fees and commissions were up $261 thousand or 26%, compared to 2009. Broker-dealer fees and commissions fluctuate mainly
due to sales volume, which increased during 2010 as a result of improving market and economic conditions.  Loan servicing
income decreased $184 thousand for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009, mainly as a result of more rapid amortization of servicing rights due to loans paying off prior to maturity and lower fees collected due to a decrease in the
sold and serviced portfolio.  We recognized $425 thousand in net losses on investment securities during the year ended
December 31, 2010 as compared to $1.2 million of net losses during the same period in 2009. The investment security net losses for 2010 resulted from other-than-temporary impairment charges of $594 thousand, partly offset by $169 thousand of
gains from sales and calls of investment securities. The 2010 OTTI charges primarily related to pooled trust preferred securities that were designated as impaired in the first quarter of that year due to credit quality. The $1.2 million of
investment security losses for 2009 are a result of $4.7 million of other-than-temporary impairment charges, partly offset by $3.4 million of gains on the sale of securities.  Noninterest Expense  Salaries and employee benefits was $32.8 million for
2010, down $823 thousand or 2% from 2009. Average full-time equivalent employees (“FTEs”) were 577 for 2010, down 2% from 586 for 2009. Salary-related expenses were relatively unchanged at $25.3 million for 2010 and $25.2 million for 2009.
Fringe benefit expenses decreased $876 thousand or 10%, primarily attributable to lower pension costs.  FDIC assessments,
comprised mostly of deposit insurance paid to the FDIC, decreased $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, due primarily to the one-time special assessment of $923 thousand incurred in the second quarter of 2009. FDIC assessment rates
have also declined as a result of our improved financial ratios, upon which the assessment rate is based.  Professional
services expense of $2.2 million in 2010 decreased $327 thousand or 13% from 2009, primarily due to lower legal costs associated with loan workouts and other corporate activities. 
Advertising and promotions expenses were $172 thousand or 18% higher in 2010 compared to 2009 due to increases in business development
expenses.  Other noninterest expense increased $433 thousand or 6% during 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was primarily
due to a loss of approximately $1.0 million relating to irregular instances of fraudulent debit card activity that we recorded in the fourth quarter of 2010.  The efficiency ratio for the year ended December 31, 2010 improved to 60.36% compared with 65.52% for 2009.  Income Taxes  We recognized income tax expense of $9.4 million for 2010
compared to $6.1 million for 2009. The change in income tax expense was primarily due to a $10.1 million increase in pretax income between the years. We also recorded non-recurring tax benefits during 2010 of $1.2 million related to valuation of our
deferred tax assets as a result of the NYS repeal of the experience method for determining bad debts and re-valuing at the highest Federal statutory rate of 35%. Our effective tax rates were 30.5% in 2010 and 29.8% in 2009. 
  44 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  OVERVIEW  At December 31, 2011, we had total assets of $2.336
billion, an increase of 6% from $2.214 billion as of December 31, 2010, primarily a result of the continued core business growth in both loans and deposits. Net loans were $1.462 billion as of December 31, 2011, up $136.0 million, or 10%,
when compared to $1.326 billion as of December 31, 2010. The increase in net loans was primarily attributed to the continued expansion of the indirect lending program in existing and new markets and commercial business development efforts.
Non-performing assets totaled $9.2 million as of December 31, 2011, up $292 thousand from a year ago. An increase in non-performing investment securities for which we have stopped accruing interest was partly offset by a decrease in
non-performing loans and a decrease in foreclosed assets. Total deposits amounted to $1.932 billion and $1.883 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, borrowed funds totaled $150.7 million, compared
to $103.9 million as of December 31, 2010. Book value per common share was $15.92 and $14.48 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 our total shareholders’ equity was $237.2 million compared to
$212.1 million a year earlier.  INVESTING ACTIVITIES  The following table summarizes the composition of the available for sale and held to maturity security portfolios (in thousands). 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Investment Securities Portfolio Composition
 

 
    
At December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 
    
Amortized
 
    
Fair
 
    
Amortized
 
    
Fair
 
    
Amortized
 
    
Fair
 

 
    
Cost
 
    
Value
 
    
Cost
 
    
Value
 
    
Cost
 
    
Value
 

 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agency and government-sponsored enterprise securities
    
$
94,947
  
    
$
97,712
  
    
$
141,591
  
    
$
140,784
  
    
$
134,564
  
    
$
134,105
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
119,099
  
    
 
124,424
  
    
 
105,622
  
    
 
105,666
  
    
 
80,812
  
    
 
83,659
  

 Mortgage-backed securities:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 Agency mortgage-backed securities
    
 
390,375
  
    
 
401,596
  
    
 
414,502
  
    
 
417,709
  
    
 
356,044
  
    
 
356,355
  

 Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities
    
 
327
  
    
 
2,089
  
    
 
981
  
    
 
1,572
  
    
 
5,087
  
    
 
5,160
  

 Asset-backed securities
    
 
297
  
    
 
1,697
  
    
 
564
  
    
 
637
  
    
 
1,295
  
    
 
1,222
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total available for sale securities
    
 
605,045
  
    
 
627,518
  
    
 
663,260
  
    
 
666,368
  
    
 
577,802
  
    
 
580,501
  

 Securities held to maturity:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 State and political subdivisions
    
 
23,297
  
    
 
23,964
  
    
 
28,162
  
    
 
28,849
  
    
 
39,573
  
    
 
40,629
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
    
$
628,342
  
    
$
651,482
  
    
$
691,422
  
    
$
695,217
  
    
$
617,375
  
    
$
621,130
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 Our investment policy is contained within our overall Asset-Liability Management and Investment Policy.
This policy dictates that investment decisions will be made based on the safety of the investment, liquidity requirements, potential returns, cash flow targets, need for collateral and desired risk parameters. In pursuing these objectives, we
consider the ability of an investment to provide earnings consistent with factors of quality, maturity, marketability, pledgeable nature and risk diversification. Our Treasurer, guided by ALCO, is responsible for investment portfolio decisions
within the established policies.  Impairment Assessment  We review investment securities on an ongoing basis for the presence of OTTI with formal reviews performed quarterly. Declines in the fair value of held-to-maturity and available-for-sale securities below
their cost that are deemed to be other than temporary are reflected in earnings as realized losses to the extent the impairment is related to credit losses or the security is intended to be sold or will be required to be sold. The amount of the
impairment related to non-credit related factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. Evaluating whether the impairment of a debt security is other than temporary involves assessing i.) the intent to sell the debt security or ii.) the
likelihood of being required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis. In determining whether the other-than-temporary impairment includes a credit loss, we use our best estimate of the present value of cash flows
expected to be collected from the debt security considering factors such as: a.) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis, b.) adverse conditions specifically related to the security, an
industry, or a geographic area, c.) the historical and implied volatility of the fair value of the security, d.) the payment structure of the debt security and the likelihood of the issuer being able to make payments that increase in the future, e.)
failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled interest or principal payments, f.) any changes to the rating of the security by a rating agency, and g.) recoveries or additional declines in fair value subsequent to the balance sheet date.

  45 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
As of December 31, 2011, management does not have the intent to sell any of the
securities in a loss position and believes that it is not likely that it will be required to sell any such securities before the anticipated recovery of amortized cost. The unrealized losses are largely due to increases in market interest rates over
the yields available at the time the underlying securities were purchased. The fair value is expected to recover as the bonds approach their maturity date, repricing date or if market yields for such investments decline. Management does not believe
any of the securities in a loss position are impaired due to reasons of credit quality. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2011, management has concluded that unrealized losses on its investment securities are temporary and no further impairment
loss has been realized in our consolidated statements of income. The following discussion provides further details of our assessment of the securities portfolio by investment category. 
The table below summarizes unrealized losses in each category of the securities portfolio at the end of the periods indicated (in
thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Unrealized Losses on Investment Securities
 

 
    
At December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
    
Unrealized
 
    
% of
 
 
Unrealized
 
    
% of
 
 
Unrealized
 
    
% of
 

 
    
Losses
 
    
Total
 
 
Losses
 
    
Total
 
 
Losses
 
    
Total
 

 Securities available for sale:
    



    



 



    



 



    




 U.S. Government agency and government-sponsored enterprise securities
    
$
5
  
    
 
11.9
% 
 
$
1,965
  
    
 
31.6
% 
 
$
545
  
    
 
19.8
% 

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
11
  
    
 
26.2
  
 
 
1,472
  
    
 
23.6
  
 
 
3
  
    
 
0.1
  

 Mortgage-backed securities:
    



    



 



    



 



    




 Agency mortgage-backed securities
    
 
26
  
    
 
61.9
  
 
 
2,655
  
    
 
42.7
  
 
 
1,638
  
    
 
59.3
  

 Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
 
 
330
  
    
 
12.0
  

 Asset-backed securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
 
 
131
  
    
 
2.1
  
 
 
244
  
    
 
8.8
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total investment securities
    
$
42
  
    
 
100.0
% 
 
$
6,223
  
    
 
100.0
% 
 
$
2,760
  
    
 
100.0
% 


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 There were no unrealized losses on investment securities classified as held to maturity as of
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  U.S. Government Agencies and Government Sponsored Enterprises
(“GSE”). As of December 31, 2011, there were five securities in the U.S. Government agencies and GSE portfolio with unrealized losses totaling $5 thousand. Of these, four were in an unrealized loss position for 12
months or longer and had an aggregate amortized cost of $5.3 million and unrealized losses of $4 thousand. The decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates, and not credit quality, and because we do not have the intent to sell
these securities and it is likely that we will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery, we do not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011. 
State and Political Subdivisions. As of December 31, 2011, the state and political subdivisions (“municipals”)
portfolio totaled $147.7 million, of which $124.4 million was classified as available for sale. As of that date, $23.3 million was classified as held to maturity with a fair value of $24.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, there were three
municipals in an unrealized loss position, all of which were available for sale. Of these, one was in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or longer, and had an aggregate amortized cost of $655 thousand and an unrealized loss of $9 thousand.
 Although there has been a considerable amount of negative information regarding municipal entities in certain states in the
U.S., our portfolio is concentrated in municipalities within our geographic footprint and there is currently no indication that the underlying credit issuers (counties, towns, villages, cities, schools, etc.) are likely to default on their debt.
Additionally, most of the available for sale bonds are General Obligation issues that require the taxing authority to increase taxes as needed to repay the bond holders.  Because the decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates, and not credit quality, and because we do not have the intent to sell these securities and it is not likely that we will be
required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery, we do not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2011.  Agency Mortgage-backed Securities. With the exception of the non-Agency mortgage-backed securities (“non-Agency MBS”) discussed below, all of the mortgage-backed securities held by us as
of December 31, 2011, were issued by U.S. Government sponsored entities and agencies (“Agency MBS”), primarily GNMA. The contractual cash flows of our Agency MBS are guaranteed by FNMA, FHLMC or GNMA. The GNMA mortgage-backed
securities are backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government. 
  46 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
As of December 31, 2011, there were six securities in the U.S. Government agencies
and GSE portfolio that were in an unrealized loss position. Of these, only four were in an unrealized loss position for 12 months or longer and had an aggregate amortized cost of $2.2 million and unrealized losses of $8 thousand. Given the high
credit quality inherent in Agency MBS, we do not consider any of the unrealized losses as of December 31, 2011, on such MBS to be credit related or other-than-temporary. As of December 31, 2011, we did not intend to sell any of Agency MBS
that were in an unrealized loss position, all of which were performing in accordance with their terms.  Non-Agency
Mortgage-backed Securities. Our non-Agency MBS portfolio consists of positions in three privately issued whole loan collateralized mortgage obligations with a fair value of $2.1 million and net unrealized gains of $1.8 million as of
December 31, 2011. As of that date, each of the three non-Agency MBS were rated below investment grade. None of these securities were in an unrealized loss position. During the fourth quarter of 2011 we recognized an OTTI charge of $18 thousand
against one of the non-Agency MBS.  Asset-backed Securities (“ABS”). As of December 31, 2011, the fair
value of the ABS portfolio totaled $1.7 million and consisted of positions in eleven securities, the majority of which are pooled trust preferred securities (“TPS”) issued primarily by financial institutions and, to a lesser extent,
insurance companies located throughout the United States. As a result of some issuers defaulting and others electing to defer interest payments, we considered the TPS to be non-performing and stopped accruing interest on the investments during 2009.
 Since the second quarter of 2008, we have written down each of the securities in the ABS portfolio, resulting in aggregate
OTTI charges of $22.5 million through December 31, 2011. We expect to recover the remaining amortized cost of $297 thousand on the securities. As of December 31, 2011, each of the securities in the ABS portfolio was rated below investment
grade. None of these securities were in an unrealized loss position.  The market for these securities began to improve during
the second quarter of 2011, resulting in substantial increases to their fair value since the beginning of the year. During that time, there were no additions to the portfolio as the increase relates solely to an increase in the fair value of the
securities in the portfolio. During 2011, we recognized gains totaling $2.3 million from the sale of four ABS securities. The four securities had a fair value of $251 thousand at December 31, 2010. We continue to monitor the market for these
securities and evaluate the potential for future dispositions.  Other Investments. As a member of the FHLB the Bank is
required to hold FHLB stock. The amount of required FHLB stock is based on the Bank’s asset size and the amount of borrowings from the FHLB. We have assessed the ultimate recoverability of our FHLB stock and believe that no impairment currently
exists. As a member of the FRB system, we are required to maintain a specified investment in FRB stock based on a ratio relative to our capital. At December 31, 2011, our ownership of FHLB and FRB stock totaled $6.8 million and $3.9 million,
respectively and is included in other assets and recorded at cost. 
  47 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
LENDING ACTIVITIES  Total loans were $1.485 billion at December 31, 2011, an increase of $138.8 million or 10% from December 31, 2010. Commercial loans increased $63.1 million or 11% and represented 42.2% of total
loans at the end of 2011. Residential mortgage loans were $113.9 million, down $15.7 million or 12% and represented 7.7% of total loans compared to 9.6% at December 31, 2010 while consumer loans increased $91.3 million to represent 50.1% of
total loans at December 31, 2011 and 48.5% at December 31, 2010. The composition of our loan portfolio, excluding loans held for sale and including net unearned income and net deferred fees and costs, is summarized as follows (in
thousands):   





XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX


 
 
Loan Portfolio Composition
 

 
 
At December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
 
Percent
 

 Commercial business
 
$
233,836
  
 
 
15.7
% 
 
$
211,031
  
 
 
15.7
% 
 
$
206,383
  
 
 
16.3
% 
 
$
180,100
  
 
 
16.1
% 
 
$
157,550
  
 
 
16.3
% 

 Commercial mortgage
 
 
393,244
  
 
 
26.5
  
 
 
352,930
  
 
 
26.2
  
 
 
330,748
  
 
 
26.2
  
 
 
285,383
  
 
 
25.5
  
 
 
272,394
  
 
 
28.3
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total commercial
 
 
627,080
  
 
 
42.2
  
 
 
563,961
  
 
 
41.9
  
 
 
537,131
  
 
 
42.5
  
 
 
465,483
  
 
 
41.6
  
 
 
429,944
  
 
 
44.6
  













 Residential mortgage
 
 
113,911
  
 
 
7.7
  
 
 
129,580
  
 
 
9.6
  
 
 
144,215
  
 
 
11.4
  
 
 
177,683
  
 
 
15.8
  
 
 
166,863
  
 
 
17.3
  













 Home equity
 
 
231,766
  
 
 
15.6
  
 
 
208,327
  
 
 
15.5
  
 
 
200,684
  
 
 
15.9
  
 
 
189,794
  
 
 
16.9
  
 
 
194,144
  
 
 
20.1
  

 Consumer indirect
 
 
487,713
  
 
 
32.9
  
 
 
418,016
  
 
 
31.1
  
 
 
352,611
  
 
 
27.9
  
 
 
255,054
  
 
 
22.8
  
 
 
134,977
  
 
 
14.0
  

 Other consumer
 
 
24,306
  
 
 
1.6
  
 
 
26,106
  
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
29,365
  
 
 
2.3
  
 
 
33,065
  
 
 
2.9
  
 
 
38,245
  
 
 
4.0
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total consumer
 
 
743,785
  
 
 
50.1
  
 
 
652,449
  
 
 
48.5
  
 
 
582,660
  
 
 
46.1
  
 
 
477,913
  
 
 
42.6
  
 
 
367,366
  
 
 
38.1
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total loans
 
 
1,484,776
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
1,345,990
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
1,264,006
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
1,121,079
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
 
964,173
  
 
 
100.0
% 

 Allowance for loan losses
 
 
23,260
  
 



 
 
20,466
  
 



 
 
20,741
  
 



 
 
18,749
  
 



 
 
15,521
  
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 




 Total loans, net
 
$
1,461,516
  
 



 
$
1,325,524
  
 



 
$
1,243,265
  
 



 
$
1,102,330
  
 



 
$
948,652
  
 





 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 The decrease in residential mortgage loans from $144.2 million to $129.6 million to $113.9 million for
the periods ending December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively, and the increase in consumer indirect loans from $352.6 million to $418.0 million to $487.7 million for the same periods reflects a strategic shift to increase our consumer
indirect loan portfolio, while placing less emphasis on expanding our residential mortgage loan portfolio, coupled with our practice of selling the majority of our fixed-rate residential mortgages in the secondary market with servicing rights
retained.  Commercial loans are generally viewed as having more inherent risk of default than residential mortgage or consumer
loans. Also, the commercial loan balance per borrower is typically larger than that for residential mortgage and consumer loans, inferring higher potential losses on an individual customer basis. Commercial loans increased during 2011 as we
continued our commercial business development efforts. The credit risk related to commercial loans is largely influenced by general economic conditions and the resulting impact on a borrower’s operations or on the value of underlying
collateral, if any.  The Company participates in various lending programs in which guarantees are supplied by U.S. government
agencies, such as the SBA, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Rural Economic and Community Development and Farm Service Agency, among others. As of December 31, 2011, the principal balance of such loans (included in commercial loans) was $60.1
million and the guaranteed portion amounted to $42.5 million. Most of these loans were guaranteed by the SBA.  Commercial
business loans were $233.8 million at the end of 2011, up $22.8 million or 11% since year-end 2010, and comprised 15.7% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010. We typically originate business loans of up to $15.0 million for
small to mid-sized businesses in our market area for working capital, equipment financing, inventory financing, accounts receivable financing, or other general business purposes. Loans of this type are in a diverse range of industries. Within the
commercial business classification, loans to finance agricultural production totaled approximately 1% of commercial business loans as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, commercial business SBA loans accounted for a total of
$32.9 million or 14% of our commercial business loan portfolio.  Commercial mortgage loans totaled $393.2 million at
December 31, 2011, up $40.3 million or 11% from December 31, 2010, and comprised 26.5% of total loans, compared to 26.2% at December 31, 2010. Commercial mortgage includes both owner occupied and non-owner occupied commercial real
estate loans. Approximately 45% and 51% of the commercial mortgage portfolio at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, was owner occupied commercial real estate. The majority of our commercial real estate loans are secured by office
buildings, manufacturing facilities, distribution/warehouse facilities, and retail centers, which are generally located in our local market area. As of December 31, 2011, commercial mortgage SBA loans accounted for a total of $20.5 million or
5% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. 
  48 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Our current lending standards for commercial real estate and real estate construction
lending are determined by property type and specifically address many criteria, including: maximum loan amounts, maximum loan-to-value (“LTV”), requirements for pre-leasing and / or pre-sales, minimum debt-service coverage ratios, minimum
borrower equity, and maximum loan to cost. Currently, the maximum standard for LTV is 85%, with lower limits established for certain higher risk types, such as raw land which has a 65% LTV maximum. Our LTV guidelines are in compliance with
regulatory supervisory limits.  Residential mortgage loans totaled $113.9 million at the end of 2011, down $15.7 million or
12% from the prior year and comprised 7.7% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 9.6% at December 31, 2010. Residential mortgage loans include conventional first lien home mortgages and we generally limit the maximum loan to
85% of collateral value without credit enhancement (e.g. PMI insurance). As part of management’s historical practice of originating and servicing residential mortgage loans, the majority of our fixed-rate residential mortgage loans are sold in
the secondary market with servicing rights retained.  Our underwriting guidelines for consumer-related real estate loans
include a combination of borrower FICO (credit score), the LTV of the property securing the loan and evidence of the borrower having sufficient income to repay the loan. Currently, for home equity products, the maximum acceptable LTV is 90%. The
average FICO score for new home equity production in 2011 was 755 comparable to 759 in 2010. Residential mortgage products continue to be underwritten using FHLMC and FNMA secondary marketing guidelines. 
Consumer loans totaled $743.8 million at December 31, 2011, up $91.3 million or 14% compared to 2010, and represented 50.1% of the
2011 year-end loan portfolio versus 48.5% at year-end 2010. Loans in this classification include indirect consumer, home equity and other consumer installment loans. Credit risk for these types of loans is generally influenced by general economic
conditions, the characteristics of individual borrowers, and the nature of the loan collateral. Risks of loss are generally on smaller average balances per loan spread over many borrowers. Once charged off, there is usually less opportunity for
recovery on these smaller retail loans. Credit risk is primarily controlled by reviewing the creditworthiness of the borrowers, monitoring payment histories, and taking appropriate collateral and guaranty positions. 
Consumer indirect loans amounted to $487.7 million at December 31, 2011 up $69.7 million or 17% compared to 2010, and represented
32.9% of the 2011 year-end loan portfolio versus 31.1% at year-end 2010. The loans are primarily for the purchase of automobiles (both new and used) and light duty trucks primarily to individuals, but also to corporations and other organizations.
The loans are originated through dealerships and assigned to us with terms that typically range from 36 to 84 months. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we originated $266.7 million in indirect loans with a mix of approximately 46% new
auto and 54% used vehicles. This compares with $204.4 million in indirect loans with a mix of approximately 33% new auto and 67% used vehicles for the same period in 2010. The increase in loans for new autos reflects changes in market conditions in
2011. We do business with nearly 400 franchised auto dealers located in Western and Central New York, the Capital District of New York and Northern Pennsylvania.  Home equity consists of home equity lines, as well as home equity loans, some of which are first lien positions. Home equities amounted to $231.8 million at December 31, 2011 up $23.4 million or 11%
compared to 2010, and represented 15.6% of the 2011 year-end loan portfolio versus 15.5% at year-end 2010. The portfolio had a weighted average LTV at origination of approximately 53% and 52% at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Approximately 69% of the loans in the home equity portfolio are first lien positions at December 31, 2011, compared to 63% at December 31, 2010.  Other consumer loans totaled $24.3 million at December 31, 2011, down $1.8 million or 7% compared to 2010, and represented 1.6% of the 2011 year-end loan portfolio versus 1.9% at year-end 2010. Other
consumer consists of personal loans (collateralized and uncollateralized) and deposit account collateralized loans.  Factors
that are important to managing overall credit quality are sound loan underwriting and administration, systematic monitoring of existing loans and commitments, effective loan review on an ongoing basis, early identification of potential problems, an
appropriate allowance for loan losses, and sound nonaccrual and charge off policies.  An active credit risk management process
is used for commercial loans to further ensure that sound and consistent credit decisions are made. Credit risk is controlled by detailed underwriting procedures, comprehensive loan administration, and periodic review of borrowers’ outstanding
loans and commitments. Borrower relationships are formally reviewed and graded on an ongoing basis for early identification of potential problems. Further analyses by customer, industry, and geographic location are performed to monitor trends,
financial performance, and concentrations.  The loan portfolio is widely diversified by types of borrowers, industry groups,
and market areas within our core footprint. Significant loan concentrations are considered to exist for a financial institution when there are amounts loaned to numerous borrowers engaged in similar activities that would cause them to be similarly
impacted by economic or other conditions. At December 31, 2011, no significant concentrations, as defined above, existed in our portfolio in excess of 10% of total loans. 
  49 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Loans Held for Sale and Loan Servicing Rights. Loans held for sale (not included
in the loan portfolio composition table) were entirely comprised of residential real estate mortgages and totaled $2.4 million and $3.1 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
We sell certain qualifying newly originated or refinanced residential real estate mortgages on the secondary market. Residential real
estate mortgages serviced for others, which are not included in the consolidated statements of financial condition, amounted to $297.8 million and $328.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
During 2011, we sold $13.0 million of indirect auto loans, recognizing a gain of $153 thousand. The loans were reclassified from
portfolio to loans held for sale during the second quarter of 2011. As of December 31, 2011, a loan servicing asset for the sold and serviced indirect auto loans of $574 thousand is included in other assets in the consolidated statements of
financial condition.  Allowance for Loan Losses  The following table summarizes the activity in the allowance for loan losses (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Loan Loss Analysis
 

 
    
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Allowance for loan losses, beginning of year
    
$
20,466
  
 
$
20,741
  
 
$
18,749
  
 
$
15,521
  
 
$
17,048
  

 Charge-offs:
    



 



 



 



 




 Commercial business
    
 
1,346
  
 
 
3,426
  
 
 
2,360
  
 
 
720
  
 
 
618
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
751
  
 
 
263
  
 
 
355
  
 
 
1,192
  
 
 
439
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
152
  
 
 
290
  
 
 
225
  
 
 
320
  
 
 
319
  

 Home equity
    
 
449
  
 
 
259
  
 
 
195
  
 
 
110
  
 
 
255
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
4,713
  
 
 
4,669
  
 
 
3,637
  
 
 
2,011
  
 
 
988
  

 Other consumer
    
 
877
  
 
 
909
  
 
 
1,058
  
 
 
1,106
  
 
 
1,276
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total charge-offs
    
 
8,288
  
 
 
9,816
  
 
 
7,830
  
 
 
5,459
  
 
 
3,895
  

 Recoveries:
    



 



 



 



 




 Commercial business
    
 
401
  
 
 
326
  
 
 
428
  
 
 
684
  
 
 
1,140
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
245
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
150
  
 
 
315
  
 
 
216
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
90
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
50
  

 Home equity
    
 
44
  
 
 
36
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
12
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
2,066
  
 
 
1,485
  
 
 
1,030
  
 
 
548
  
 
 
235
  

 Other consumer
    
 
456
  
 
 
485
  
 
 
480
  
 
 
544
  
 
 
599
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recoveries
    
 
3,302
  
 
 
2,854
  
 
 
2,120
  
 
 
2,136
  
 
 
2,252
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net charge-offs
    
 
4,986
  
 
 
6,962
  
 
 
5,710
  
 
 
3,323
  
 
 
1,643
  

 Provision for loan losses
    
 
7,780
  
 
 
6,687
  
 
 
7,702
  
 
 
6,551
  
 
 
116
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Allowance for loan losses, end of year
    
$
23,260
  
 
$
20,466
  
 
$
20,741
  
 
$
18,749
  
 
$
15,521
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Net charge-offs to average loans
    
 
0.36
% 
 
 
0.54
% 
 
 
0.47
% 
 
 
0.32
% 
 
 
0.18
% 

 Allowance to end of period loans
    
 
1.57
% 
 
 
1.52
% 
 
 
1.64
% 
 
 
1.67
% 
 
 
1.61
% 

 Allowance to end of period non-performing loans
    
 
329
% 
 
 
270
% 
 
 
239
% 
 
 
229
% 
 
 
192
% 

  50 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
The following table sets forth the allocation of the allowance for loan losses by loan
category as of the dates indicated. The allocation is made for analytical purposes and is not necessarily indicative of the categories in which actual losses may occur. The total allowance is available to absorb losses from any segment of the loan
portfolio (in thousands).   





XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX


 
 
Allowance for Loan Losses by Loan Category
 

 
 
At December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
 
 
 
 
Percentage
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage
 

 
 
Loan
 
 
of loans by
 
 
Loan
 
 
of loans by
 
 
Loan
 
 
of loans by
 
 
Loan
 
 
of loans by
 
 
Loan
 
 
of loans by
 

 
 
Loss
 
 
category to
 
 
Loss
 
 
category to
 
 
Loss
 
 
category to
 
 
Loss
 
 
category to
 
 
Loss
 
 
category to
 

 
 
Allowance
 
 
total loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
total loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
total loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
total loans
 
 
Allowance
 
 
total loans
 

 Commercial business
 
$
4,036
  
 
 
15.7
% 
 
$
3,712
  
 
 
15.7
% 
 
$
4,407
  
 
 
16.3
% 
 
$
3,300
  
 
 
16.1
% 
 
$
2,505
  
 
 
16.3
% 

 Commercial mortgage
 
 
6,418
  
 
 
26.5
  
 
 
6,431
  
 
 
26.2
  
 
 
6,638
  
 
 
26.2
  
 
 
4,635
  
 
 
25.5
  
 
 
4,640
  
 
 
28.3
  

 Residential mortgage
 
 
858
  
 
 
7.7
  
 
 
1,013
  
 
 
9.6
  
 
 
1,251
  
 
 
11.4
  
 
 
2,516
  
 
 
15.8
  
 
 
1,763
  
 
 
17.3
  

 Home equity
 
 
1,242
  
 
 
15.6
  
 
 
972
  
 
 
15.5
  
 
 
1,043
  
 
 
15.9
  
 
 
2,374
  
 
 
16.9
  
 
 
1,869
  
 
 
20.1
  

 Consumer indirect
 
 
10,189
  
 
 
32.9
  
 
 
7,754
  
 
 
31.1
  
 
 
6,837
  
 
 
27.9
  
 
 
5,152
  
 
 
22.8
  
 
 
2,284
  
 
 
14.0
  

 Other consumer
 
 
517
  
 
 
1.6
  
 
 
584
  
 
 
1.9
  
 
 
565
  
 
 
2.3
  
 
 
772
  
 
 
2.9
  
 
 
798
  
 
 
4.0
  

 Unallocated (1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,662
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
 
$
23,260
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
20,466
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
20,741
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
18,749
  
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
15,521
  
 
 
100.0
% 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 During 2008, management revised estimation techniques related to allocation of the allowance to specific loan segments. The result was the
elimination of the unallocated portion of the allowance for loan losses and allocation of the entire balance to specific loan segments.  Management believes that the allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2011 is adequate to cover probable losses in the loan portfolio at that date. Factors beyond our control, however, such as
general national and local economic conditions, can adversely impact the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. As a result, no assurance can be given that adverse economic conditions or other circumstances will not result in increased losses in
the portfolio or that the allowance for loan losses will be sufficient to meet actual loan losses. See Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” for the risks impacting this estimate. Management presents a quarterly review of the adequacy of the
allowance for loan losses to our Board of Directors based on the methodology that is described in further detail in Part I, Item I “Business” under the section titled “Lending Activities”. See also “Critical Accounting
Estimates” for additional information on the allowance for loan losses.  Non-performing Assets and Potential Problem Loans
 The following table sets forth information regarding non-performing assets (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Non-performing Assets
 

 
    
At December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Non-accruing loans:
    



 



 



 



 




 Commercial business
    
$
1,259
  
 
$
947
  
 
$
650
  
 
$
510
  
 
$
839
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
2,928
  
 
 
3,100
  
 
 
2,288
  
 
 
2,670
  
 
 
3,294
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
1,644
  
 
 
2,102
  
 
 
2,376
  
 
 
3,365
  
 
 
2,987
  

 Home equity
    
 
682
  
 
 
875
  
 
 
880
  
 
 
1,143
  
 
 
661
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
558
  
 
 
514
  
 
 
621
  
 
 
445
  
 
 
278
  

 Other consumer
    
 
—  
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
56
  
 
 
16
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-accruing loans
    
 
7,071
  
 
 
7,579
  
 
 
6,822
  
 
 
8,189
  
 
 
8,075
  

 Restructured accruing loans
    
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accruing loans contractually past due over 90 days
    
 
5
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1,859
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
2
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-performing loans
    
 
7,076
  
 
 
7,582
  
 
 
8,681
  
 
 
8,196
  
 
 
8,077
  

 Foreclosed assets
    
 
475
  
 
 
741
  
 
 
746
  
 
 
1,007
  
 
 
1,421
  

 Non-performing investment securities
    
 
1,636
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
1,015
  
 
 
49
  
 
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total non-performing assets
    
$
9,187
  
 
$
8,895
  
 
$
10,442
  
 
$
9,252
  
 
$
9,498
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 








 Non-performing loans to total loans
    
 
0.48
% 
 
 
0.56
% 
 
 
0.69
% 
 
 
0.73
% 
 
 
0.84
% 

 Non-performing assets to total assets
    
 
0.39
% 
 
 
0.40
% 
 
 
0.51
% 
 
 
0.48
% 
 
 
0.51
% 

  51 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Non-performing assets include non-performing loans, foreclosed assets and non-performing
investment securities. Non-performing assets at December 31, 2011 were $9.2 million, an increase of $292 thousand from the $8.9 million balance at December 31, 2010. The primary component of non-performing assets is non-performing loans,
which were $7.1 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $508 thousand from the $7.6 million balance at December 31, 2010.  Approximately $3.1 million, or 44%, of the $7.1 million in non-performing loans as of December 31, 2011 were current with respect to payment of principal and interest, but were classified as
non-accruing because repayment in full of principal and/or interest was uncertain. For non-accruing loans outstanding as of December 31, 2011, the amount of interest income forgone totaled $438 thousand. Included in nonaccrual loans are
troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) of $90 thousand at December 31, 2011. We had no TDRs that were accruing interest as of December 31, 2011.  The ratio of non-performing loans to total loans was 0.48% at December 31, 2011, compared to 0.56% at December 31, 2010. This ratio continues to compare favorably to the average of our peer
group, which was 3.26% of total loans at September 30, 2011, the most recent period for which information is available (Source: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council—Bank Holding Company Performance Report as of
September 30, 2011—Top-tier bank holding companies having consolidated assets between $1 billion and $3 billion). 
Foreclosed assets consist of real property formerly pledged as collateral to loans, which we have acquired through foreclosure
proceedings or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure. Foreclosed asset holdings represented 8 properties totaling $475 thousand at December 31, 2011 and 13 properties totaling $741 thousand at December 31, 2010. 
Non-performing investment securities for which we have stopped accruing interest were $1.6 million at December 31, 2011, compared to
$572 thousand at December 31, 2010. Non-performing investment securities are included in non-performing assets at fair value and represent pooled trust preferred securities. The market for these securities began to improve during the second
quarter of 2011, resulting in substantial increases to their fair value since the beginning of the year. There have been no securities transferred to non-performing status since the first quarter of 2009. During 2011, we recognized gains of $2.3
million from the sale of four of the 14 securities classified as non-performing at December 31, 2010. The securities had a fair value of $251 thousand at December 31, 2010. 
Potential problem loans are loans that are currently performing, but information known about possible credit problems of the borrowers
causes management to have concern as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with the present loan payment terms and may result in disclosure of such loans as nonperforming at some time in the future. These loans remain in a performing status due
to a variety of factors, including payment history, the value of collateral supporting the credits, and/or personal or government guarantees. Management considers loans classified as substandard, which continue to accrue interest, to be potential
problem loans. We identified $8.6 million and $11.5 million in loans that continued to accrue interest which were classified as substandard as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
  52 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
FUNDING ACTIVITIES  Deposits  The following table summarizes the composition of our deposits (dollars in
thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
At December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
    
Amount
 
    
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
    
Percent
 
 
Amount
 
    
Percent
 

 Noninterest-bearing demand
    
$
393,421
  
    
 
20.3
% 
 
$
350,877
  
    
 
18.6
% 
 
$
324,303
  
    
 
18.6
% 

 Interest-bearing demand
    
 
362,555
  
    
 
18.8
  
 
 
374,900
  
    
 
19.9
  
 
 
363,698
  
    
 
20.9
  

 Savings and money market
    
 
474,947
  
    
 
24.6
  
 
 
417,359
  
    
 
22.2
  
 
 
368,603
  
    
 
21.1
  

 Certificates of deposit < $100,000
    
 
486,496
  
    
 
25.2
  
 
 
555,840
  
    
 
29.5
  
 
 
512,969
  
    
 
29.5
  

 Certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more
    
 
214,180
  
    
 
11.1
  
 
 
183,914
  
    
 
9.8
  
 
 
173,382
  
    
 
9.9
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total deposits
    
$
1,931,599
  
    
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,882,890
  
    
 
100.0
% 
 
$
1,742,955
  
    
 
100.0
% 


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 We offer a variety of deposit products designed to attract and retain customers, with the primary focus
on building and expanding long-term relationships. At December 31, 2011, total deposits were $1.932 billion, representing an increase of $48.7 million for the year. Certificates of deposit were approximately 36% and 39% of total deposits at
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Depositors were hesitant to invest in certificates of deposit for long periods due to the low rate environment and, as a result, reduced both the amount they placed in time deposits and the maturity
terms.  Nonpublic deposits, the largest component of our funding sources, represented 80% of total deposits and totaled $1.541
billion and $1.501 billion as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have managed this segment of funding through a strategy of competitive pricing that minimizes the number of customer relationships that have only a single service
high cost deposit account.  We had no traditional brokered deposits at December 31, 2011 or 2010, however, we do
participate in the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (“CDARS”) program, which enables depositors to receive FDIC insurance coverage for deposits otherwise exceeding the maximum insurable amount. Through the CDARS program,
deposits in excess of the maximum insurable amount are placed with multiple participating financial institutions. Reciprocal CDARS deposits totaled $46.5 million at December 31, 2011. 
As an additional source of funding, we offer a variety of public deposit products to the many towns, villages, counties and school
districts within our market. Public deposits generally range from 20% to 25% of our total deposits. There is a high degree of seasonality in this component of funding, because the level of deposits varies with the seasonal cash flows for these
public customers. We maintain the necessary levels of short-term liquid assets to accommodate the seasonality associated with public deposits. As of December 31, 2011, total public deposits were $390.2 million or 20% of total deposits, compared
to $382.2 million or 20% of total deposits, as of December 31, 2010. In general, the number of public relationships remained stable in comparison to the prior year.  Borrowings  Outstanding borrowings are summarized as follows as of December 31 (in
thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 

 Short-term borrowings:
    



    




 Federal funds purchased
    
$
11,597
  
    
$
38,200
  

 Repurchase agreements
    
 
36,301
  
    
 
38,910
  

 Short-term FHLB borrowings
    
 
102,800
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total short-term borrowings
    
 
150,698
  
    
 
77,110
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 





 Long-term borrowings:
    



    




 FHLB advances and repurchase agreements
    
 
—  
  
    
 
10,065
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
    
 
—  
  
    
 
16,702
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total long-term borrowings
    
 
—  
  
    
 
26,767
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
    
$
150,698
  
    
$
103,877
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 We classify borrowings as short-term or long-term in accordance with the original terms of the agreement. 
  53 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
We have credit capacity with the FHLB and can borrow through facilities that include
amortizing and term advances or repurchase agreements. We had approximately $36 million of immediate credit capacity with FHLB as of December 31, 2011. We had approximately $387 million in secured borrowing capacity at the Federal Reserve Bank
(“FRB”) Discount Window, none of which was outstanding at December 31, 2011. The FHLB and FRB credit capacity are collateralized by securities from our investment portfolio and certain qualifying loans. We had approximately $107
million of credit available under unsecured federal funds purchased lines with various banks as of December 31, 2011. 
Funds are borrowed on an overnight basis through retail repurchase agreements with bank customers and federal funds purchased from other
financial institutions. Retail repurchase agreement borrowings are collateralized by securities of U.S. Government agencies. Federal funds purchased are short-term borrowings that typically mature within one to ninety days. Federal funds purchased
totaled $11.6 million and $38.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Repurchase agreements are secured overnight borrowings with customers. These short-term repurchase agreements amounted to $36.3 million and $38.9 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Short-term FHLB borrowings have original maturities of less than one year and include overnight borrowings which we typically utilizes to address short term funding needs as they arise. Short-term
FHLB borrowings at December 31, 2011 consisted of $65.0 million in overnight borrowings and $37.8 million in short-term advances.  The
following table summarizes information relating to our short-term borrowings (dollars in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
At or for the Year Ended December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Year-end balance
    
$
150,698
  
 
$
77,110
  
 
$
59,543
  

 Year-end weighted average interest rate
    
 
0.39
% 
 
 
0.21
% 
 
 
0.59
% 

 Maximum outstanding at any month-end
    
$
188,355
  
 
$
77,110
  
 
$
85,912
  

 Average balance during the year
    
$
99,122
  
 
$
49,104
  
 
$
43,092
  

 Average interest rate for the year
    
 
0.50
% 
 
 
0.74
% 
 
 
0.63
% 
 Long-term borrowings totaled $26.8 million at December 31, 2010 and consisted of $10.0 million in
FHLB repurchase agreements, $65 thousand of FHLB amortizing advances and $16.7 million in 10.20% junior subordinated debentures. The $10.1 million of outstanding FHLB advances and repurchase agreements at December 31, 2010 were repaid upon
maturity during 2011. During the third quarter of 2011, we redeemed all of the junior subordinated debentures and recognized a $1.1 million loss on the extinguishment of debt.  Shareholders’ Equity  Total shareholders’ equity was $237.2
million at December 31, 2011, an increase of $25.1 million from $212.1 million at December 31, 2010. During February 2011, we redeemed $12.5 million of Series A preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury. During March 2011, we
successfully completed a follow-on common equity offering, issuing 2,813,475 shares of common stock at a price of $16.35 per share before associated offering expenses. After deducting underwriting and other offering costs, we received net proceeds
of approximately $43.1 million. Prior to the end of the first quarter of 2011, we utilized a portion of the net proceeds to redeem the remaining $25.0 million in Series A preferred stock. The warrant issued to the Treasury was repurchased for $2.1
million during the second quarter of 2011 and recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. For detailed information on shareholders’ equity, see Note 11, Shareholders’ Equity, of the notes to consolidated financial statements.
 The Company and Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements. At December 31, 2011, both the Company and
the Bank exceeded all regulatory requirements. For detailed information on regulatory capital, see Note 10, Regulatory Matters, of the notes to consolidated financial statements.  GOODWILL  The carrying amount of goodwill totaled $37.4 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010. The goodwill relates to our primary subsidiary and reporting unit, Five Star Bank. We perform a goodwill impairment test on an annual basis or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant. We
performed the annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2011 and determined the estimated fair value of our reporting unit to be in excess of its carrying amount. Accordingly, as of the annual impairment test date, there was no
indication of goodwill impairment. We test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount. 
Declines in the market value of our publicly traded stock price or declines in our ability to generate future cash flows may increase the
potential that goodwill recorded on our consolidated statements of financial condition be designated as impaired and that we may incur a goodwill write-down in the future. 
  54 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
The objective of maintaining adequate liquidity is to assure that we meet our financial obligations. These obligations include the
withdrawal of deposits on demand or at their contractual maturity, the repayment of matured borrowings, the ability to fund new and existing loan commitments and the ability to take advantage of new business opportunities. We achieve liquidity by
maintaining a strong base of core customer funds, maturing short-term assets, our ability to sell or pledge securities, lines-of-credit, and access to the financial and capital markets. 
Liquidity for the Bank is managed through the monitoring of anticipated changes in loans, the investment portfolio, core deposits and
wholesale funds. The strength of the Bank’s liquidity position is a result of its base of core customer deposits. These core deposits are supplemented by wholesale funding sources that include credit lines with the other banking institutions,
the FHLB and the FRB.  The primary sources of liquidity for FII are dividends from the Bank and access to financial and
capital markets. Dividends from the Bank are limited by various regulatory requirements related to capital adequacy and earnings trends. The Bank relies on cash flows from operations, core deposits, borrowings and short-term liquid assets. FSIS
relies on cash flows from operations and funds from FII when necessary.  Our cash and cash equivalents were $57.6 million as
of December 31, 2011, up from $39.1 million as of December 31, 2010. Our net cash provided by operating activities totaled $32.0 million and the principal source of operating activity cash flow was net income adjusted for noncash income
and expense items. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $104.9 million, which included outflows for net loan origination funding of $157.1 million and inflows from net securities transactions of $60.3 million. Net cash provided by financing
activities of $91.4 million was attributed to a $48.7 million increase in deposits, a $73.6 million increase in short-term borrowings and $43.1 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock, partly offset by the $37.5 million payment to
redeem the Series A preferred stock, $26.8 million of long-term debt repayments and $7.6 million in dividend payments.  Contractual
Obligations and Other Commitments  The following table summarizes the maturities of various contractual obligations and other commitments
(in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
At December 31, 2011
 

 
    
Within 1
 
    
Over 1 to 3
 
    
Over 3 to 5
 
    
Over 5
 
    
 
 

 
    
year
 
    
years
 
    
Years
 
    
years
 
    
Total
 

 On-Balance sheet:
    



    



    



    



    




 Certificates of deposit (1)
    
$
547,874
  
    
$
102,661
  
    
$
50,000
  
    
$
141
  
    
$
700,676
  

 Supplemental executive retirement plans
    
 
159
  
    
 
318
  
    
 
318
  
    
 
549
  
    
 
1,344
  








 Off-Balance sheet:
    



    



    



    



    




 Limited partnership investments (2)
    
$
594
  
    
$
1,187
  
    
$
593
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
2,374
  

 Commitments to extend credit (3)
    
 
374,266
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
374,266
  

 Standby letters of credit (3)
    
 
5,488
  
    
 
2,512
  
    
 
855
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
8,855
  

 Operating leases
    
 
1,242
  
    
 
2,066
  
    
 
1,889
  
    
 
4,963
  
    
 
10,160
  
  


(1) 
 Includes the maturity of certificates of deposit amounting to $100 thousand or more as follows: $77.7 million in three months or less; $32.4 million
between three months and six months; $57.7 million between six months and one year; and $46.4 million over one year.   


(2) 
 We have committed to capital investments in several limited partnerships of up to $6.1 million, of which we have contributed $3.7 million as of
December 31, 2011, including $407 thousand during 2011.   


(3) 
 We do not expect all of the commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit to be funded. Thus, the total commitment amounts do not
necessarily represent our future cash requirements.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
With the exception of obligations in connection with our irrevocable loan commitments, operating leases and limited partnership
investments, we had no other off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity,
capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. For additional information on off-balance sheet arrangements, see Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies, in the notes to
the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
  55 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Security Yields and Maturities Schedule 
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the amortized cost (“Cost”), weighted average yields
(“Yield”) and contractual maturities of our debt securities portfolio as of December 31, 2011. Mortgage-backed securities are included in maturity categories based on their stated maturity date. Actual maturities may differ from the
contractual maturities presented because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay certain investments. We have stopped accruing interest on our asset-backed securities. No tax-equivalent adjustments were made to the weighted average yields (in
thousands).   





XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX



XXXXX


 
 
Due in one yearor 
less
 
 
Due from one tofive 
years
 
 
Due after fiveyears
throughten years
 
 
Due after tenyears
 
 
Total
 

 
 
Cost
 
 
Yield
 
 
Cost
 
 
Yield
 
 
Cost
 
 
Yield
 
 
Cost
 
 
Yield
 
 
Cost
 
 
Yield
 

 Available for sale debt securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 U.S. Government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises
 
$
13,574
  
 
 
1.42
% 
 
$
32,137
  
 
 
2.21
% 
 
$
34,289
  
 
 
2.32
% 
 
$
14,947
  
 
 
0.86
% 
 
$
94,947
  
 
 
1.93
% 

 State and political subdivisions
 
 
9,573
  
 
 
3.57
  
 
 
43,534
  
 
 
2.67
  
 
 
65,992
  
 
 
2.44
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
119,099
  
 
 
2.62
  

 Mortgage-backed securities
 
 
878
  
 
 
4.52
  
 
 
5,812
  
 
 
3.82
  
 
 
83,358
  
 
 
1.77
  
 
 
300,654
  
 
 
3.49
  
 
 
390,702
  
 
 
3.13
  

 Asset-backed securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
297
  
 
 
—  
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 





 
 
24,025
  
 
 
2.39
  
 
 
81,483
  
 
 
2.57
  
 
 
183,639
  
 
 
2.11
  
 
 
315,898
  
 
 
3.49
  
 
 
605,045
  
 
 
2.91
  

 Held to maturity debt securities:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 State and political subdivisions
 
 
18,496
  
 
 
2.35
  
 
 
3,763
  
 
 
4.26
  
 
 
905
  
 
 
4.90
  
 
 
133
  
 
 
5.53
  
 
 
23,297
  
 
 
2.77
  


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 





 
$
42,521
  
 
 
2.37
% 
 
$
85,246
  
 
 
2.64
% 
 
$
184,544
  
 
 
2.13
% 
 
$
316,031
  
 
 
3.49
% 
 
$
628,342
  
 
 
2.90
% 


 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 
  
  
 
 



 Contractual Loan Maturity Schedule  The following table summarizes the contractual maturities of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2011. Loans, net of deferred loan origination costs, include principal amortization and non-accruing
loans. Demand loans having no stated schedule of repayment or maturity and overdrafts are reported as due in one year or less (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Due in lessthan one year
 
    
Due from oneto five
years
 
    
Due after 
fiveyears
 
    
Total
 

 Commercial business
    
$
135,627
  
    
$
82,926
  
    
$
15,283
  
    
$
233,836
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
109,782
  
    
 
187,205
  
    
 
96,257
  
    
 
393,244
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
28,673
  
    
 
56,585
  
    
 
28,653
  
    
 
113,911
  

 Home equity
    
 
46,468
  
    
 
105,726
  
    
 
79,572
  
    
 
231,766
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
161,053
  
    
 
310,214
  
    
 
16,446
  
    
 
487,713
  

 Other consumer
    
 
10,375
  
    
 
12,509
  
    
 
1,422
  
    
 
24,306
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total loans
    
$
491,978
  
    
$
755,165
  
    
$
237,633
  
    
$
1,484,776
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 Loans maturing after one year:
    



    



    



    




 With a predetermined interest rate
    



    
$
225,553
  
    
$
157,596
  
    
$
383,149
  

 With a floating or adjustable rate
    



    
 
529,612
  
    
 
80,037
  
    
 
609,649
  


    



    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total loans maturing after one year
    



    
$
755,165
  
    
$
237,633
  
    
$
992,798
  


    



    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  56 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Capital Resources  The FRB has adopted a system using risk-based capital guidelines to evaluate the capital adequacy of bank holding companies on a consolidated basis. The guidelines require a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio
of 4.00%, a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.00% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 8.00%. The following table reflects the ratios and their components (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
    
$
237,194
  
 
$
212,144
  

 Less: Unrealized gain on securities available for sale, net of tax
    
 
13,570
  
 
 
1,877
  

 Unrecognized net periodic pension & postretirement benefits (costs), net of tax
    
 
(12,625
) 
 
 
(6,599
) 

 Disallowed goodwill and other intangible assets
    
 
37,369
  
 
 
37,369
  

 Disallowed deferred tax assets
    
 
1,794
  
 
 
14,608
  

 Plus: Qualifying trust preferred securities
    
 
—  
  
 
 
16,200
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Tier 1 capital
    
$
197,086
  
 
$
181,089
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted average total assets (for leverage capital purposes)
    
$
2,282,755
  
 
$
2,177,911
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to adjusted average total assets)
    
 
8.63
% 
 
 
8.31
% 





 Total Tier 1 capital
    
$
197,086
  
 
$
181,089
  

 Plus: Qualifying allowance for loan losses
    
 
20,239
  
 
 
18,363
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Total risk-based capital
    
$
217,325
  
 
$
199,452
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Net risk-weighted assets
    
$
1,616,119
  
 
$
1,466,957
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 





 Tier 1 capital ratio (Tier 1 capital to net risk-weighted assets)
    
 
12.20
% 
 
 
12.34
% 





 Total risk-based capital ratio (Total risk-based capital to net risk-weighted assets)
    
 
13.45
% 
 
 
13.60
% 
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP and are consistent with predominant practices in the financial services industry. Application of critical accounting policies,
which are those policies that management believes are the most important to our financial position and results, requires management to make estimates, assumptions, and judgments that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes and are based on information available as of the date of the financial statements. Future changes in information may affect these estimates, assumptions and judgments, which, in turn, may affect amounts reported in
the financial statements.  We have numerous accounting policies, of which the most significant are presented in Note 1,
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. These policies, along with the disclosures presented in the other financial statement notes and in this discussion, provide information on how significant
assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are reported in the consolidated financial statements and how those reported amounts are determined. Based on the sensitivity of financial statement amounts to the methods, assumptions, and estimates
underlying those amounts, management has determined that the accounting policies with respect to the allowance for loan losses, valuation of goodwill and deferred tax assets, the valuation of securities and determination of OTTI, and accounting for
defined benefit plans require particularly subjective or complex judgments important to our financial position and results of operations, and, as such, are considered to be critical accounting policies as discussed below. These estimates and
assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment and are evaluated on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic environment. We adjust these estimates and assumptions when
facts and circumstances dictate. Illiquid credit markets and volatile equity have combined with declines in consumer spending to increase the uncertainty inherent in these estimates and assumptions. As future events cannot be determined with
precision, actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. 
  57 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Adequacy of the Allowance for Loan Losses 
The allowance for loan losses represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. Determining
the amount of the allowance for loan losses is considered a critical accounting estimate because it requires significant judgment and the use of subjective measurements including management’s assessment of the internal risk classifications of
loans, changes in the nature of the loan portfolio, industry concentrations, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. Because
current economic conditions can change and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses, could change significantly. As an
integral part of their examination process, various regulatory agencies also review the allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require additions to the allowance for loan losses or may require that certain loan balances be charged off or
downgraded into criticized loan categories when their credit evaluations differ from those of management, based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. We believe the level of the allowance for loan
losses is appropriate as recorded in the consolidated financial statements.  For additional discussion related to our
accounting policies for the allowance for loan losses, see the sections titled “Allowance for Loan Losses” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and
Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the notes to consolidated financial statements.  Valuation of Goodwill
 Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in accordance with the
purchase method of accounting for business combinations. Goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying amount. We complete our annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30 of each year. The impairment testing process is conducted by assigning net assets and goodwill to each reporting unit. Currently, our
goodwill is evaluated at the entity level as there is only one reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the recorded book value “step one”. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value,
goodwill is not considered impaired and “step two” is not considered necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the impairment test continues (“step two”) by comparing the carrying value of the
reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value is computed by adjusting all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to current fair value with the offset adjustment to goodwill. The adjusted
goodwill balance is the implied fair value of the goodwill. An impairment charge is recognized if the carrying fair value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill.  Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets  The determination of deferred tax
expense or benefit is based on changes in the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that generate temporary differences. The carrying value of our net deferred tax assets assumes that we will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income
based on estimates and assumptions (after consideration of historical taxable income as well as tax planning strategies). If these estimates and related assumptions change, we may be required to record valuation allowances against our deferred tax
assets resulting in additional income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income. Management evaluates deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis and assesses the need for a valuation allowance, if any. A valuation allowance is established
when management believes that it is more likely than not that some portion of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowance from period to period are included in our tax provision in the period of change. For
additional discussion related to our accounting policy for income taxes see Note 14, Income Taxes, of the notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  58 


MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
 
Valuation and Other Than Temporary Impairment of Securities 
We record all of our securities that are classified as available for sale at fair value. The fair value of equity securities are
determined using public quotations, when available. Where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are estimated based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques for which the determination
of fair value may require significant judgment or estimation. Fair values of public bonds and those private securities that are actively traded in the secondary market have been determined through the use of third-party pricing services using market
observable inputs. Private placement securities and other corporate fixed maturities for which we do not receive a public quotation are valued using a variety of acceptable valuation methods. Market rates used are applicable to the yield, credit
quality and average maturity of each security. Private equity securities may also utilize internal valuation methodologies appropriate for the specific asset. Fair values might also be determined using broker quotes or through the use of internal
models or analysis.  Securities are evaluated quarterly to determine whether a decline in their fair value is other than
temporary. Management utilizes criteria such as, the current intent or requirement to hold or sell the security, the magnitude and duration of the decline and, when appropriate, consideration of negative changes in expected cash flows,
creditworthiness, near term prospects of issuers, the level of credit subordination, estimated loss severity, and delinquencies, to determine whether a loss in value is other than temporary. The term “other than temporary” is not
intended to indicate that the decline is permanent, but indicates that the prospect for a near-term recovery of value is not necessarily favorable. Declines in the fair value of investment securities below their cost that are deemed to be other
than temporary are reflected in earnings as realized losses to the extent the impairment is related to credit issues or concerns, or the security is intended to be sold. The amount of impairment related to non-credit related factors on securities
not intended to be sold is recognized in other comprehensive income.  Defined Benefit Pension Plan 
Management is required to make various assumptions in valuing its defined benefit pension plan assets and liabilities. These assumptions
include, but are not limited to, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the weighted average discount rate used to value certain liabilities and the rate of compensation increase. We use a third-party specialist to assist in making
these estimates and assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions are reasonably possible and may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, results of income or liquidity. 
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  See Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.

  59 




ITEM 7A.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  Asset-Liability Management  The principal objective of our interest rate
risk management is to evaluate the interest rate risk inherent in assets and liabilities, determine the appropriate level of risk to us given our business strategy, operating environment, capital and liquidity requirements and performance
objectives, and manage the risk consistent with the guidelines approved by our Board of Directors. Management is responsible for reviewing with the Board of Directors our activities and strategies, the effect of those strategies on the net interest
margin, the fair value of the portfolio and the effect that changes in interest rates will have on the portfolio and exposure limits. Management has developed an Asset-Liability Policy that meets strategic objectives and regularly reviews the
activities of the Bank.  Net Interest Income at Risk Analysis  The primary tool we use to manage interest rate risk is a “rate shock” simulation to measure the rate sensitivity of the statement of financial condition. Rate shock simulation is a modeling
technique used to estimate the impact of changes in rates on net interest income and economic value of equity. The following table sets forth the results of the modeling analysis as of December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


Changes in
    
Net Interest Income
 
 
Economic Value of Equity
 

 interest rate
    
Amount
 
    
Change
 
 
Amount
 
    
Change
 

 + 300 basis points
    
$
85,243
  
    
$
2,621
  
  
 
3.17
% 
 
$
343,691
  
    
$
(19,853
) 
  
 
(5.46
)% 

 + 200 basis points
    
 
84,298
  
    
 
1,676
  
  
 
2.03
  
 
 
354,626
  
    
 
(8,918
) 
  
 
(2.45
) 

 + 100 basis points
    
 
83,050
  
    
 
429
  
  
 
0.52
  
 
 
361,887
  
    
 
(1,656
) 
  
 
(0.46
) 

 - 100 basis points
    
 
80,484
  
    
 
(2,138
) 
  
 
(2.59
) 
 
 
385,220
  
    
 
21,677
  
  
 
5.96
  
 We measure net interest income at risk by estimating the changes in net interest income resulting from
instantaneous and sustained parallel shifts in interest rates of different magnitudes over a period of 12 months. As of December 31, 2011, a 100 basis point increase in rates would increase net interest income by $429 thousand, or 0.5%, over
the next twelve-month period. A 100 basis point decrease in rates would decrease net interest income by $2.1 million, or 2.6%, over a twelve-month period. As of December 31, 2011, a 100 basis point increase in rates would decrease the economic
value of equity by $1.7 million, or 0.5%, over the next twelve-month period. A 100 basis point decrease in rates would increase the economic value of equity by $21.7 million, or 6.0%, over a twelve-month period. This simulation is based on
management’s assumption as to the effect of interest rate changes on assets and liabilities and assumes a parallel shift of the yield curve. It also includes certain assumptions about the future pricing of loans and deposits in response to
changes in interest rates. Further, it assumes that delinquency rates would not change as a result of changes in interest rates, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case. While this simulation is a useful measure as to net
interest income at risk due to a change in interest rates, it is not a forecast of the future results and is based on many assumptions that, if changed, could cause a different outcome. 
In addition to the changes in interest rate scenarios listed above, we typically run other scenarios to measure interest rate risk, which
vary depending on the economic and interest rate environments. 
  60 


The following table presents an analysis of our interest rate sensitivity gap position at
December 31, 2011. All interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities are shown based on the earlier of their contractual maturity or re-pricing date. The expected maturities are presented on a contractual basis or, if more relevant,
based on projected call dates. Investment securities are at amortized cost for both securities available for sale and securities held to maturity. Loans, net of deferred loan origination costs, include principal amortization adjusted for estimated
prepayments (principal payments in excess of contractual amounts) and non-accruing loans. Because the interest rate sensitivity levels shown in the table could be changed by external factors such as loan prepayments and liability decay rates or by
factors controllable by us, such as asset sales, it is not an absolute reflection of our potential interest rate risk profile (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
At December 31, 2011
 

 
 
 
Over Three
 
 
Over
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
    
Three
 
 
Months
 
 
One Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
    
Months
 
 
Through
 
 
Through
 
 
Over
 
 
 
 

 
    
or Less
 
 
One Year
 
 
Five Years
 
 
Five Years
 
 
Total
 

 INTEREST-EARNING ASSETS:
    



 



 



 



 




 Federal funds sold and interest-earning deposits in other banks
    
$
—  
  
 
$
94
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
94
  

 Investment securities
    
 
117,520
  
 
 
144,472
  
 
 
254,640
  
 
 
111,710
  
 
 
628,342
  

 Loans
    
 
469,602
  
 
 
257,217
  
 
 
667,411
  
 
 
92,956
  
 
 
1,487,186
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-earning assets
    
$
587,122
  
 
$
401,783
  
 
$
922,051
  
 
$
204,666
  
 
 
2,115,622
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Cash and due from banks
    



 



 



 



 
 
57,489
  

 Other assets (1)
    



 



 



 



 
 
163,242
  


    



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total assets
    



 



 



 



 
$
2,336,353
  


    



 



 



 



 
  
  
 








 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES:
    



 



 



 



 




 Interest-bearing demand, savings and money market
    
$
837,502
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
837,502
  

 Certificates of deposit
    
 
183,321
  
 
 
364,553
  
 
 
152,661
  
 
 
141
  
 
 
700,676
  

 Borrowings
    
 
130,698
  
 
 
20,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
150,698
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total interest-bearing liabilities
    
$
1,151,521
  
 
$
384,553
  
 
$
152,661
  
 
$
141
  
 
 
1,688,876
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 




 Noninterest-bearing deposits
    



 



 



 



 
 
393,421
  

 Other liabilities
    



 



 



 



 
 
16,862
  


    



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
    



 



 



 



 
 
2,099,159
  

 Shareholders’ equity
    



 



 



 



 
 
237,194
  


    



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
    



 



 



 



 
$
2,336,353
  


    



 



 



 



 
  
  
 








 Interest sensitivity gap
    
$
(564,399
) 
 
$
17,230
  
 
$
769,390
  
 
$
204,525
  
 
$
426,746
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cumulative gap
    
$
(564,399
) 
 
$
(547,169
) 
 
$
222,221
  
 
$
426,746
  
 





    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 











 Cumulative gap ratio (2)
    
 
51.0
% 
 
 
64.4
% 
 
 
113.2
% 
 
 
125.3
% 
 




 Cumulative gap as a percentage of total assets
    
 
(24.2
)% 
 
 
(23.4
)% 
 
 
9.5
% 
 
 
18.3
% 
 



  


(1)
 Includes net
unrealized gain on securities available for sale and allowance for loan losses.   


(2)
 Cumulative
total interest-earning assets divided by cumulative total interest-bearing liabilities.  For purposes of
interest rate risk management, we direct more attention on simulation modeling, such as “net interest income at risk” as previously discussed, rather than gap analysis. The net interest income at risk simulation modeling is considered by
management to be more informative in forecasting future income at risk. 
  61 




ITEM 8.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES  Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements   





September 30,


 
    
Page
 




 Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
    
 
63
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting)
    
 
64
  




 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (on the Consolidated Financial
Statements)
    
 
65
  




 Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition at December 31, 2011 and 2010
    
 
66
  




 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
    
 
67
  




 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
    
 
68
  




 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
    
 
70
  




 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    
 
71
  

  62 


Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting
for Financial Institutions, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”), as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). The Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting has been designed to provide reasonable
assurance to the Company’s management and board of directors regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.  Any system of internal control over financial reporting, no matter how well designed, has inherent
limitations, including the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time.
Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.  The Company’s management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. To make this assessment, we used the criteria for
effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our assessment and based on such criteria,
we believe that, as of December 31, 2011, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was effective. 
The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company’s consolidated financial statements has
issued an attestation report on internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. That report appears herein.   













 

 



 
 /s/ Peter G. Humphrey
 

 

 
 /s/ Karl F. Krebs


 
 President and Chief Executive Officer
 

 

 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


 
 March 9, 2012
 

 

 
 March 9, 2012
  
  63 


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Financial Institutions, Inc.:  We have audited Financial Institutions, Inc. and
subsidiaries’ (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also includes performing such other procedures
as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
statements of financial condition of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011, and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
/s/ KPMG LLP  Rochester, New
York  March 9, 2012 
  64 


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Financial Institutions, Inc.:  We have audited the accompanying consolidated
statements of financial condition of Financial Institutions, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each
of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO), and our report dated March 9, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.  /s/ KPMG LLP  Rochester, New York 
March 9, 2012 
  65 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
December 31,
 

 (Dollars in thousands, except share and per share data)
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 ASSETS
    



  




 Cash and cash equivalents:
    



  




 Cash and due from banks
    
$
57,489
  
  
$
38,964
  

 Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in other banks
    
 
94
  
  
 
94
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total cash and cash equivalents
    
 
57,583
  
  
 
39,058
  

 Securities available for sale, at fair value
    
 
627,518
  
  
 
666,368
  

 Securities held to maturity, at amortized cost (fair value of $23,964 and $28,849, respectively)
    
 
23,297
  
  
 
28,162
  

 Loans held for sale
    
 
2,410
  
  
 
3,138
  

 Loans (net of allowance for loan losses of $23,260 and $20,466, respectively)
    
 
1,461,516
  
  
 
1,325,524
  

 Company owned life insurance
    
 
45,556
  
  
 
26,053
  

 Premises and equipment, net
    
 
33,085
  
  
 
33,263
  

 Goodwill
    
 
37,369
  
  
 
37,369
  

 Other assets
    
 
48,019
  
  
 
55,372
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total assets
    
$
2,336,353
  
  
$
2,214,307
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 





 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
    



  




 Deposits:
    



  




 Noninterest-bearing demand
    
$
393,421
  
  
$
350,877
  

 Interest-bearing demand
    
 
362,555
  
  
 
374,900
  

 Savings and money market
    
 
474,947
  
  
 
417,359
  

 Certificates of deposit
    
 
700,676
  
  
 
739,754
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deposits
    
 
1,931,599
  
  
 
1,882,890
  

 Short-term borrowings
    
 
150,698
  
  
 
77,110
  

 Long-term borrowings
    
 
—  
  
  
 
26,767
  

 Other liabilities
    
 
16,862
  
  
 
15,396
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
    
 
2,099,159
  
  
 
2,002,163
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies (Note 9)
    



  




 Shareholders’ equity:
    



  




 Series A 3% preferred stock, $100 par value; 1,533 shares authorized; 1,500 and 1,533 shares issued, respectively
    
 
150
  
  
 
153
  

 Series A preferred stock, $5,000 liquidation preference per share, 7,503 shares authorized; 7,503 shares issued at
December 31, 2010
    
 
—  
  
  
 
36,210
  

 Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock, $100 par value, 200,000 shares authorized; 173,235 and 174,223 shares issued,
respectively
    
 
17,323
  
  
 
17,422
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total preferred equity
    
 
17,473
  
  
 
53,785
  

 Common stock, $0.01 par value, 50,000,000 shares authorized; 14,161,597 and 11,348,122 shares issued,
respectively
    
 
142
  
  
 
113
  

 Additional paid-in capital
    
 
67,247
  
  
 
26,029
  

 Retained earnings
    
 
158,079
  
  
 
144,599
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
    
 
945
  
  
 
(4,722
) 

 Treasury stock, at cost – 358,481 and 410,616 shares, respectively
    
 
(6,692
) 
  
 
(7,660
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total shareholders’ equity
    
 
237,194
  
  
 
212,144
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
    
$
2,336,353
  
  
$
2,214,307
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
  66 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Years ended December 31,
 

 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Interest income:
    



  



  




 Interest and fees on loans
    
$
77,105
  
  
$
75,877
  
  
$
72,706
  

 Interest and dividends on investment securities
    
 
18,013
  
  
 
20,622
  
  
 
21,694
  

 Other interest income
    
 
—  
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
82
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest income
    
 
95,118
  
  
 
96,509
  
  
 
94,482
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Interest expense:
    



  



  




 Deposits
    
 
11,434
  
  
 
14,853
  
  
 
19,090
  

 Short-term borrowings
    
 
500
  
  
 
365
  
  
 
270
  

 Long-term borrowings
    
 
1,321
  
  
 
2,502
  
  
 
2,857
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total interest expense
    
 
13,255
  
  
 
17,720
  
  
 
22,217
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest income
    
 
81,863
  
  
 
78,789
  
  
 
72,265
  

 Provision for loan losses
    
 
7,780
  
  
 
6,687
  
  
 
7,702
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net interest income after provision for loan losses
    
 
74,083
  
  
 
72,102
  
  
 
64,563
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Noninterest income:
    



  



  




 Service charges on deposits
    
 
8,679
  
  
 
9,585
  
  
 
10,065
  

 ATM and debit card
    
 
4,359
  
  
 
3,995
  
  
 
3,610
  

 Broker-dealer fees and commissions
    
 
1,829
  
  
 
1,283
  
  
 
1,022
  

 Company owned life insurance
    
 
1,424
  
  
 
1,107
  
  
 
1,096
  

 Loan servicing
    
 
835
  
  
 
1,124
  
  
 
1,308
  

 Net gain on sale of loans held for sale
    
 
880
  
  
 
650
  
  
 
699
  

 Net gain on sales and calls of investment securities
    
 
3,003
  
  
 
169
  
  
 
3,429
  

 Impairment charges on investment securities
    
 
(18
) 
  
 
(594
) 
  
 
(4,666
) 

 Net gain (loss) on sale and disposal of other assets
    
 
67
  
  
 
(203
) 
  
 
180
  

 Other
    
 
2,867
  
  
 
2,338
  
  
 
2,052
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total noninterest income
    
 
23,925
  
  
 
19,454
  
  
 
18,795
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Noninterest expense:
    



  



  




 Salaries and employee benefits
    
 
35,439
  
  
 
32,811
  
  
 
33,634
  

 Occupancy and equipment
    
 
10,868
  
  
 
10,818
  
  
 
11,062
  

 Computer and data processing
    
 
2,437
  
  
 
2,487
  
  
 
2,340
  

 Professional services
    
 
2,617
  
  
 
2,197
  
  
 
2,524
  

 Supplies and postage
    
 
1,778
  
  
 
1,772
  
  
 
1,846
  

 FDIC assessments
    
 
1,513
  
  
 
2,507
  
  
 
3,651
  

 Advertising and promotions
    
 
1,259
  
  
 
1,121
  
  
 
949
  

 Loss on extinguishment of debt
    
 
1,083
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
    
 
6,800
  
  
 
7,204
  
  
 
6,771
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total noninterest expense
    
 
63,794
  
  
 
60,917
  
  
 
62,777
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
    
 
34,214
  
  
 
30,639
  
  
 
20,581
  

 Income tax expense
    
 
11,415
  
  
 
9,352
  
  
 
6,140
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
    
$
22,799
  
  
$
21,287
  
  
$
14,441
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Preferred stock dividends
    
 
1,877
  
  
 
3,358
  
  
 
3,160
  

 Accretion of discount on Series A preferred stock
    
 
1,305
  
  
 
367
  
  
 
537
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income available to common shareholders
    
$
19,617
  
  
$
17,562
  
  
$
10,744
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Earnings per common share (Note 15):
    



  



  




 Basic
    
$
1.50
  
  
$
1.62
  
  
$
0.99
  

 Diluted
    
$
1.49
  
  
$
1.61
  
  
$
0.99
  

 Cash dividends declared per common share
    
$
0.47
  
  
$
0.40
  
  
$
0.40
  

 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
    



  



  




 Basic
    
 
13,067
  
  
 
10,767
  
  
 
10,730
  

 Diluted
    
 
13,157
  
  
 
10,845
  
  
 
10,769
  
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
  67 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 (Dollars in thousands,
except per share data)
 
PreferredEquity
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
 
$
53,074
  
 
$
113
  
 
$
26,397
  
 
$
124,952
  
 
$
(4,013
) 
 
$
(10,223
) 
 
$
190,300
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,441
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14,441
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
311
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
311
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
14,752
  

 Issuance costs of Series A preferred stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(68
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(68
) 

 Share-based compensation plans:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Share-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
852
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
854
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
19
  
 
 
15
  

 Restricted stock awards issued, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(207
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
207
  
 
 
—  
  

 Directors’ retainer
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
151
  
 
 
121
  

 Accrued undeclared cumulative dividend on Series A preferred stock, net of accretion
 
 
344
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(537
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(193
) 

 Cash dividends declared:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Series A 3% preferred-$3.00 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 

 Series A preferred-$223.61 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,678
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,678
) 

 Series B-1 8.48% preferred-$8.48 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,477
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,477
) 

 Common-$0.40 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,327
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,327
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
$
53,418
  
 
$
113
  
 
$
26,940
  
 
$
131,371
  
 
$
(3,702
) 
 
$
(9,846
) 
 
$
198,294
  

 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21,287
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21,287
  

 Other comprehensive loss, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,020
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,020
) 


 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
20,267
  

 Purchases of treasury stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(69
) 
 
 
(69
) 

 Share-based compensation plans:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Share-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,031
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,031
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(74
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
290
  
 
 
216
  

 Restricted stock awards issued, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,853
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,853
  
 
 
—  
  

 Directors’ retainer
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(15
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
112
  
 
 
97
  

 Accrued undeclared cumulative dividend on Series A preferred stock, net of accretion
 
 
367
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(367
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash dividends declared:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Series A 3% preferred-$3.00 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 

 Series A preferred-$250.00 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,876
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,876
) 

 Series B-1 8.48% preferred-$8.48 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,477
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,477
) 

 Common-$0.40 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,334
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,334
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
$
53,785
  
 
$
113
  
 
$
26,029
  
 
$
144,599
  
 
$
(4,722
) 
 
$
(7,660
) 
 
$
212,144
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 










 Continued on next page
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
  68 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity (Continued) 
Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 (Dollars in thousands,
except per share data)
 
PreferredEquity
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
TotalShareholders’Equity
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
$
53,785
  
 
$
113
  
 
$
26,029
  
 
$
144,599
  
 
$
(4,722
) 
 
$
(7,660
) 
 
$
212,144
  

 Balance carried forward
 



 



 



 



 



 



 













 Comprehensive income:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,799
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
22,799
  

 Other comprehensive income, net of tax
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,667
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
5,667
  


 



 



 



 



 



 



 
  
  
 

 Total comprehensive income
 



 



 



 



 



 



 
 
28,466
  

 Issuance of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
29
  
 
 
43,098
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
43,127
  

 Purchases of treasury stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(215
) 
 
 
(215
) 

 Repurchase of Series A 3% preferred stock
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3
) 

 Repurchase of warrant issued to U.S. Treasury
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,080
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,080
) 

 Redemption of Series A preferred stock
 
 
(37,515
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
68
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(37,447
) 

 Repurchase of Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock
 
 
(99
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(99
) 

 Share-based compensation plans:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Share-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,105
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,105
  

 Stock options exercised
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(28
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
119
  
 
 
91
  

 Restricted stock awards issued, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(954
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
954
  
 
 
—  
  

 Excess tax benefit on share-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21
  

 Directors’ retainer
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(12
) 
 



 



 
 
110
  
 
 
98
  

 Accretion of discount on Series A preferred stock
 
 
1,305
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,305
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash dividends declared:
 



 



 



 



 



 



 




 Series A 3% preferred-$3.00 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5
) 

 Series A preferred-$53.24 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(399
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(399
) 

 Series B-1 8.48% preferred-$8.48 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,473
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,473
) 

 Common-$0.47 per share
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,137
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,137
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
$
17,473
  
 
$
142
  
 
$
67,247
  
 
$
158,079
  
 
$
945
  
 
$
(6,692
) 
 
$
237,194
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
  69 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


  
    
Years ended December 31,
 

 (Dollars in thousands)
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
    



  



  




 Net income
    
$
22,799
  
  
$
21,287
  
  
$
14,441
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
    



  



  




 Depreciation and amortization
    
 
3,466
  
  
 
3,537
  
  
 
4,067
  

 Net amortization of premiums on securities
    
 
5,722
  
  
 
3,005
  
  
 
2,587
  

 Provision for loan losses
    
 
7,780
  
  
 
6,687
  
  
 
7,702
  

 Share-based compensation
    
 
1,105
  
  
 
1,031
  
  
 
854
  

 Deferred income tax expense
    
 
6,510
  
  
 
2,468
  
  
 
7,470
  

 Proceeds from sale of loans held for sale
    
 
32,839
  
  
 
42,195
  
  
 
90,290
  

 Originations of loans held for sale
    
 
(31,231
) 
  
 
(44,262
) 
  
 
(88,999
) 

 Net gain on sale of loans held for sale
    
 
(880
) 
  
 
(650
) 
  
 
(699
) 

 Increase in company owned life insurance
    
 
(1,424
) 
  
 
(1,107
) 
  
 
(1,096
) 

 Net gain on sales and calls of investment securities
    
 
(3,003
) 
  
 
(169
) 
  
 
(3,429
) 

 Impairment charges on investment securities
    
 
18
  
  
 
594
  
  
 
4,666
  

 Net (gain) loss on sale and disposal of other assets
    
 
(67
) 
  
 
203
  
  
 
(180
) 

 Loss on extinguishment of debt
    
 
1,083
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Increase in other assets
    
 
(7,756
) 
  
 
(353
) 
  
 
(8,773
) 

 (Decrease) increase in other liabilities
    
 
(4,943
) 
  
 
961
  
  
 
(6,633
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
    
 
32,018
  
  
 
35,427
  
  
 
22,268
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities:
    



  



  




 Purchases of investment securities:
    



  



  




 Available for sale
    
 
(158,013
) 
  
 
(430,952
) 
  
 
(602,259
) 

 Held to maturity
    
 
(17,188
) 
  
 
(19,791
) 
  
 
(29,280
) 

 Proceeds from principal payments, maturities and calls on investment securities:
    



  



  




 Available for sale
    
 
168,976
  
  
 
219,974
  
  
 
353,545
  

 Held to maturity
    
 
21,986
  
  
 
30,885
  
  
 
46,891
  

 Proceeds from sales and calls of securities available for sale
    
 
44,514
  
  
 
122,090
  
  
 
224,928
  

 Net increase in loans, excluding sales
    
 
(157,110
) 
  
 
(89,507
) 
  
 
(165,716
) 

 Loans sold
    
 
13,033
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Purchases of company owned life insurance
    
 
(18,079
) 
  
 
(79
) 
  
 
(79
) 

 Proceeds from sales of other assets
    
 
705
  
  
 
611
  
  
 
1,709
  

 Purchases of premises and equipment
    
 
(3,678
) 
  
 
(2,438
) 
  
 
(1,959
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
    
 
(104,854
) 
  
 
(169,207
) 
  
 
(172,220
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
    



  



  




 Net increase in deposits
    
 
48,709
  
  
 
139,935
  
  
 
109,692
  

 Net increase in short-term borrowings
    
 
73,588
  
  
 
17,567
  
  
 
36,078
  

 Repayments of long-term borrowings
    
 
(26,767
) 
  
 
(20,080
) 
  
 
(508
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs
    
 
43,127
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Purchases of common stock for treasury
    
 
(215
) 
  
 
(69
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of Series A 3% preferred stock
    
 
(3
) 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Issuance costs of Series A preferred stock
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(68
) 

 Repurchase of warrant issued to U.S. Treasury
    
 
(2,080
) 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Redemption of Series A preferred stock
    
 
(37,447
) 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Repurchase of Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock
    
 
(99
) 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
    
 
91
  
  
 
216
  
  
 
15
  

 Excess tax benefit on share-based compensation
    
 
21
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash dividends paid to preferred shareholders
    
 
(2,118
) 
  
 
(3,358
) 
  
 
(3,160
) 

 Cash dividends paid to common shareholders
    
 
(5,446
) 
  
 
(4,332
) 
  
 
(4,325
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by financing activities
    
 
91,361
  
  
 
129,879
  
  
 
137,724
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
    
 
18,525
  
  
 
(3,901
) 
  
 
(12,228
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period
    
 
39,058
  
  
 
42,959
  
  
 
55,187
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of period
    
$
57,583
  
  
$
39,058
  
  
$
42,959
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 
  70 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
Financial Institutions, Inc., a financial holding company organized under the laws of New York State (“New
York” or “NYS”), and its subsidiaries provide deposit, lending and other financial services to individuals and businesses in Central and Western New York. The Company has also expanded its indirect lending network to include
relationships with franchised automobile dealers in the Capital District of New York and Northern Pennsylvania. The Company owns all of the capital stock of Five Star Bank, a New York State chartered bank, and Five Star Investment Services, Inc., a
broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiary offering noninsured investment products. References to “the Company” mean the consolidated reporting entities and references to “the Bank” mean Five Star Bank. 
The accounting and reporting policies conform to general practices within the banking industry and to U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles (“GAAP”). Prior years’ consolidated financial statements are re-classified whenever necessary to conform to the current year’s presentation.  The Company has evaluated events and transactions for potential recognition or disclosure through the day the financial statements were issued.  The following is a description of the Company’s significant accounting policies.  (a.) Principles of Consolidation  The consolidated
financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
(b.) Use of Estimates 
In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management is required to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities as of the date of the statement of financial condition and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Material estimates relate to the determination of
the allowance for loan losses, the carrying value of goodwill and deferred tax assets, the valuation and other than temporary impairment (“OTTI”) considerations related to the securities portfolio, and assumptions used in the defined
benefit pension plan accounting,. These estimates and assumptions are based on management’s best estimates and judgment and are evaluated on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors, including the current economic
environment. The Company adjusts these estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from the Company’s estimates. 
(c.) Cash Flow Reporting 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in other
banks. Net cash flows are reported for loans, deposit transactions and short-term borrowings.  Supplemental
cash flow information is summarized as follows for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cash paid (received) during the year for:
    



  



  




 Interest expense
    
$
15,668
  
  
$
17,676
  
  
$
21,682
  

 Income taxes, net of income tax refunds
    
 
5,191
  
  
 
6,923
  
  
 
(1,312
) 

 Non-cash activity:
    



  



  




 Real estate and other assets acquired in settlement of loans
    
$
305
  
  
$
561
  
  
$
1,096
  

 Dividends declared and unpaid
    
 
2,144
  
  
 
1,694
  
  
 
1,692
  

 Decrease in net unsettled security purchases
    
 
(67
) 
  
 
(317
) 
  
 
(1,348
) 

 Loans securitized
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
15,983
  

  71 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
(d.) Investment Securities 
Investment securities are classified as either available for sale or held to maturity. Debt securities that management
has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. Other investment securities are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value, with unrealized gains and
losses excluded from earnings and reported as a component of shareholders’ equity.  Purchase premiums and
discounts are recognized in interest income using the interest method over the terms of the securities. Securities are evaluated periodically to determine whether a decline in their fair value is other than temporary. Management utilizes criteria
such as, the current intent to hold or sell the security, the magnitude and duration of the decline and, when appropriate, consideration of negative changes in expected cash flows, creditworthiness, near term prospects of issuers, the level of
credit subordination, estimated loss severity, and delinquencies, to determine whether a loss in value is other than temporary. The term “other than temporary” is not intended to indicate that the decline is permanent, but indicates
that the prospect for a near-term recovery of value is not necessarily favorable. Declines in the fair value of investment securities below their cost that are deemed to be other than temporary are reflected in earnings as realized losses to
the extent the impairment is related to credit issues or concerns, or the security is intended to be sold. The amount of impairment related to non-credit related factors is recognized in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses on the sale of
securities are recorded on the trade date and are determined using the specific identification method. 
(e.) Loans Held for Sale and Mortgage Servicing Rights 
The Company generally makes the determination of whether to identify a mortgage as held for sale at the time the loan is
closed based on the Company’s intent and ability to hold the loan. Loans held for sale are recorded at the lower of cost or market computed on the aggregate portfolio basis. The amount, by which cost exceeds market value, if any, is accounted
for as a valuation allowance with changes included in the determination of results of operations for the period in which the change occurs. The amount of loan origination cost and fees are deferred at origination of the loans and recognized as part
of the gain and loss on sale of the loans, determined using the specific identification method, in the consolidated statement of income.  The Company originates and sells certain residential real estate loans in the secondary market. The Company typically retains the right to service the mortgages upon sale. Mortgage-servicing rights
(“MSRs”) represent the cost of acquiring the contractual rights to service loans for others. MSRs are recorded at their fair value at the time a loan is sold and servicing rights are retained. MSRs are reported in other assets in the
consolidated statements of financial position and are amortized to noninterest income in the consolidated statements of income in proportion to and over the period of estimated net servicing income. The Company uses a valuation model that calculates
the present value of future cash flows to determine the fair value of servicing rights. In using this valuation method, the Company incorporates assumptions to estimate future net servicing income, which include estimates of the cost to service the
loan, the discount rate, an inflation rate and prepayment speeds. On a quarterly basis, the Company evaluates its MSRs for impairment and charges any such impairment to current period earnings. In order to evaluate its MSRs the Company stratifies
the related mortgage loans on the basis of their predominant risk characteristics, such as interest rates, year of origination and term, using discounted cash flows and market-based assumptions. Impairment of MSRs is recognized through a valuation
allowance, determined by estimating the fair value of each stratum and comparing it to its carrying value. Subsequent increases in fair value are adjusted through the valuation allowance, but only to the extent of the valuation allowance. The
Company recognized an impairment loss of $35 thousand during the year ended December 31, 2011. No impairment loss was recognized during the years ended December 31, 2010 or 2009. 
Mortgage loan servicing includes collecting monthly mortgagor payments, forwarding payments and related accounting
reports to investors, collecting escrow deposits for the payment of mortgagor property taxes and insurance, and paying taxes and insurance from escrow funds when due. Loan servicing income (a component of noninterest income in the consolidated
statements of income) consists of fees earned for servicing mortgage loans sold to third parties, net of amortization expense and impairment losses associated with capitalized mortgage servicing assets. 
  72 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
(f.) Loans 
Loans are classified as held for investment when management has both the intent and ability to hold the loan for the
foreseeable future, or until maturity or payoff. Loans are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of any unearned income and unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans. Loan origination fees and certain direct loan origination
costs are deferred, and the net amount is amortized into net interest income over the contractual life of the related loans or over the commitment period as an adjustment of yield. Interest income on loans is based on the principal balance
outstanding computed using the effective interest method.  A loan is considered delinquent when a payment has
not been received in accordance with the contractual terms. The accrual of interest income for commercial loans is discontinued when there is a clear indication that the borrower’s cash flow may not be sufficient to meet payments as they become
due, while the accrual of interest income for retail loans is discontinued when loans reach specific delinquency levels. Loans are generally placed on nonaccrual status when contractually past due 90 days or more as to interest or principal
payments, unless the loan is well secured and in the process of collection. Additionally, whenever management becomes aware of facts or circumstances that may adversely impact the collectability of principal or interest on loans, it is
management’s practice to place such loans on a nonaccrual status immediately, rather than delaying such action until the loans become 90 days past due. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is
reversed, amortization of related deferred loan fees or costs is suspended, and income is recorded only to the extent that interest payments are subsequently received in cash and a determination has been made that the principal balance of the loan
is collectible. If collectability of the principal is in doubt, payments received are applied to loan principal. A nonaccrual loan may be returned to accrual status when all delinquent principal and interest payments become current in accordance
with the terms of the loan agreement, the borrower has demonstrated a period of sustained performance (generally a minimum of six months) and the ultimate collectability of the total contractual principal and interest is no longer in doubt.
 The Company’s loan policy dictates the guidelines to be followed in determining when a loan is
charged-off. All charge offs are approved by the Bank’s senior loan officers or loan committees, depending on the amount of the charge off, and are reported in aggregate to the Bank’s Board of Directors. Commercial business and commercial
mortgage loans are charged-off when a determination is made that the financial condition of the borrower indicates that the loan will not be collectible in the ordinary course of business. Residential mortgage loans and home equities are generally
charged-off or written down when the credit becomes severely delinquent and the balance exceeds the fair value of the property less costs to sell. Indirect and other consumer loans, both secured and unsecured, are generally charged-off in full
during the month in which the loan becomes 120 days past due, unless the collateral is in the process of repossession in accordance with the Company’s policy. 
A loan is accounted for as a troubled debt restructuring if the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the
borrower’s financial condition, grants a significant concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. A troubled debt restructuring may involve the receipt of assets from the debtor in partial or full satisfaction of the loan,
or a modification of terms such as a reduction of the stated interest rate or face amount of the loan, a reduction of accrued interest, an extension of the maturity date at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for a new loan
with similar risk, or some combination of these concessions. Troubled debt restructurings generally remain on nonaccrual status until there is a sustained period of payment performance (usually six months or longer) and there is a reasonable
assurance that the payments will continue. See Allowance for Loan Losses below for further policy discussion and see Note 4 for additional information on loans. 
(g.) Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments 
In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into off-balance sheet financial instruments consisting of
commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and financial guarantees. Such financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated financial statements when they are funded or when related fees are incurred or received. The Company
periodically evaluates the credit risks inherent in these commitments and establishes loss allowances for such risks if and when these are deemed necessary.  The Company recognizes as liabilities the fair value of the obligations undertaken in issuing the guarantees under the standby letters of credit, net of the related amortization at inception. The fair
value approximates the unamortized fees received from the customers for issuing the standby letters of credit. The fees are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the commitment period. Standby letters of credit outstanding at
December 31, 2011 had original terms ranging from one to five years. 
  73 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
Fees received for providing loan commitments and letters of credit that
result in loans are typically deferred and amortized to interest income over the life of the related loan, beginning with the initial borrowing. Fees on commitments and letters of credit are amortized to other income as banking fees and commissions
over the commitment period when funding is not expected.  (h.) Allowance for Loan Losses
 The allowance for loan losses is established through charges to earnings in the form of a provision
for loan losses. When a loan or portion of a loan is determined to be uncollectible, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged against the allowance and subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. 
The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis and is based upon periodic review of the collectability of
the loans in light of historical experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral, and prevailing economic conditions. This
evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available.  The allowance consists of specific and general components. Specific allowances are established for impaired loans. Impaired commercial business and commercial mortgage loans are individually evaluated and
measured for impairment based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, a loan’s observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.
Regardless of the measurement method, impairment is based on the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. If the recorded investment in impaired loans exceeds the measure of estimated fair value, a specific allowance is established
as a component of the allowance for loan losses. Interest payments on impaired loans are typically applied to principal unless collectability of the principal amount is reasonably assured, in which case interest is recognized on a cash basis.
Impaired loans, or portions thereof, are charged off when deemed uncollectible.  A loan is considered impaired
when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered in
determining impairment include payment status and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired.
The Company determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for
the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Impairment is measured on a loan by loan basis by either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted
at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loans obtainable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. Large groups of homogeneous loans are collectively evaluated for impairment. Accordingly, the
Company does not separately identify individual consumer and residential loans for impairment disclosures unless the loan has been subject to a troubled debt restructure. 
General allowances are established for loan losses on a portfolio basis for loans that do not meet the definition of
impaired. The portfolio is grouped into similar risk characteristics, primarily loan type. The Company applies an estimated loss rate to each loan group. The loss rate is based on historical experience and as a result can differ from actual losses
incurred in the future. The historical loss rate is adjusted for qualitative factors such as levels and trends of delinquent and non-accruing loans, trends in volume and terms, effects of changes in lending policy, the experience, ability and depth
of management, national and local economic trends and conditions, concentrations of credit risk, interest rates, highly leveraged borrowers, information risk and collateral risk. The qualitative factors are reviewed at least quarterly and
adjustments are made as needed.  While management evaluates currently available information in establishing
the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary if conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in making the evaluations. In addition, various regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their
examination process, periodically review a financial institution’s allowance for loan losses. Such agencies may require the financial institution to recognize additions to the allowance based on their judgments about information available to
them at the time of their examination. 
  74 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
(i.) Other Real Estate Owned 
Other real estate owned consists of properties acquired through foreclosure or by acceptance of a deed in lieu of
foreclosure. These assets are recorded at the lower of fair value of the asset acquired less estimated costs to sell or “cost” (defined as the fair value at initial foreclosure). At the time of foreclosure, or when foreclosure occurs
in-substance, the excess, if any, of the loan over the fair market value of the assets received, less estimated selling costs, is charged to the allowance for loan losses and any subsequent valuation write-downs are charged to other expense. In
connection with the determination of the allowance for loan losses and the valuation of other real estate owned, management obtains appraisals for properties. Operating costs associated with the properties are charged to expense as incurred.
Gains on the sale of other real estate owned are included in income when title has passed and the sale has met the minimum down payment requirements prescribed by GAAP. The balance of other real estate owned at December 31, 2011 was $475
thousand.  (j.) Company Owned Life Insurance 
The Company holds life insurance policies on certain current and former employees. The Company is the owner and
beneficiary of the policies. The cash surrender value of these policies is included as an asset on the consolidated statements of financial condition, and any increase in cash surrender value is recorded as noninterest income on the consolidated
statements of income. In the event of the death of an insured individual under these policies, the Company would receive a death benefit which would be recorded as noninterest income. 
(k.) Premises and Equipment 
Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is computed on
the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. The Company generally amortizes buildings and building improvements over a period of 15 to 39 years and software, furniture and equipment over a period of 3 to 10 years.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the useful life of the improvements. Premises and equipment are periodically reviewed for impairment or when circumstances present indicators of impairment. 
(l.) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in accordance with the
purchase method of accounting for business combinations. Goodwill is not amortized but, instead, is subject to impairment tests on at least an annual basis or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company completes the annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30 of each year. The impairment testing process is conducted by assigning net assets and goodwill to each reporting unit.
Currently, the Company’s goodwill is evaluated at the entity level as there is only one reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the recorded book value “step one”. If the fair value of the reporting unit
exceeds its carrying value, goodwill is not considered impaired and “step two” is not considered necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the impairment test continues (“step two”) by comparing
the carrying value of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value is computed by adjusting all assets and liabilities of the reporting unit to current fair value with the offset adjustment to
goodwill. The adjusted goodwill balance is the implied fair value of the goodwill. An impairment charge is recognized if the carrying fair value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill. 
The company had other intangible assets, consisting entirely of core deposit intangibles, which were fully amortized as
of December 31, 2009. Amortization expense for these other intangible assets for the year ended December 31, 2009 was $280 thousand. Amortization of other intangible assets was computed using the straight-line method over the estimated
lives of the respective assets (primarily 5 and 7 years). 
  75 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
(m.) Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) and Federal Reserve
Bank (“FRB”) Stock  The non-marketable investments in FHLB and FRB stock are included in
other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition at par value or cost and are periodically reviewed for impairment. The dividends received relative to these investments are included in other noninterest income in the consolidated
statements of income.  As a member of the FHLB system, the Company is required to maintain a specified
investment in FHLB of New York (“FHLBNY”) stock in proportion to its volume of certain transactions with the FHLB. FHLBNY stock totaled $6.8 million and $2.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
As a member of the FRB system, the Company is required to maintain a specified investment in FRB stock based on a ratio
relative to the Company’s capital. FRB stock totaled $3.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
(n.) Equity Method Investments 
The Company has investments in limited partnerships and accounts for these investments under the equity method. These
investments are included in other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition and totaled $4.0 million and $3.6 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
(o.) Treasury Stock 
Acquisitions of treasury stock are recorded at cost. The reissuance of shares in treasury is recorded at weighted-average
cost.  (p.) Employee Benefits 
The Company participates in a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan for certain employees who previously met
participation requirements. The Company also provides post-retirement benefits, principally health and dental care, to employees of a previously acquired entity. The Company has closed the pension and post-retirement plans to new participants. The
actuarially determined pension benefit is based on years of service and the employee’s highest average compensation during five consecutive years of employment. The Company’s policy is to at least fund the minimum amount required by the
Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The cost of the pension and post-retirement plans are based on actuarial computations of current and future benefits for employees, and is charged to noninterest expense in the consolidated
statements of income.  The Company recognizes an asset or a liability for a plans’ overfunded status or
underfunded status, respectively, in the consolidated financial statements and reports changes in the funded status as a component of other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes, in the year in which changes occur. 
(q.) Share-Based Compensation Plans 
Compensation expense for stock options and restricted stock awards is based on the fair value of the award on the
measurement date, which, for the Company, is the date of grant and is recognized ratably over the service period of the award. The fair value of stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The fair value of restricted
stock awards is generally the market price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant.  Share-based
compensation expense is included in the consolidated statements of income under salaries and employee benefits for awards granted to management and in other noninterest expense for awards granted to directors. 
(r.) Income Taxes  Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. A valuation allowance is recognized on deferred tax assets if, based upon the
weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the assets may not be realized. The Company recognizes interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. 
  76 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
(s.) Earnings Per Common Share 
The Company calculates earnings per common share (“EPS”) using the two-class method in accordance with
Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 260, “Earnings Per Share”. The two-class method requires the Company to present EPS as if all of the earnings for the period
are distributed to common shareholders and any participating securities, regardless of whether any actual dividends or distributions are made. All outstanding unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends are
considered participating securities. Certain of the restricted shares issued under the Company’s share-based compensation plan are entitled to dividends at the same rate as common stock. The Company has determined that these outstanding
non-vested stock awards qualify as participating securities.  Basic EPS is computed by dividing distributed
and undistributed earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Distributed and undistributed earnings available to common shareholders represent net income reduced by preferred
stock dividends and distributed and undistributed earnings available to participating securities. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted stock awards. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all potential
dilutive securities. A reconciliation of the weighted-average shares used in calculating basic earnings per common share and the weighted average common shares used in calculating diluted earnings per common share for the reported periods is
provided in Note 15—Earnings Per Common Share.  (t.) Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standard Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting
Standards Update (“ASU”) 2011-12 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting
Standards Update No. 2011-05.” ASU 2011-12 defers changes in ASU No. 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments to allow the FASB time to reconsider whether to require presentation of such adjustments
on the face of the financial statements to show the effects of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income on the components of net income and other comprehensive income. ASU 2011-12 allows entities to continue to report
reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before ASU No. 2011-05. All other requirements in ASU No. 2011-05 are not affected by ASU No. 2011-12. ASU 2011-12
is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In November 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-11 “Balance Sheet (Topic 210)—“Disclosures about Offsetting
Assets and Liabilities.” ASU 2011-11 amends Topic 210, “Balance Sheet,” to require an entity to disclose both gross and net information about financial instruments, such as sales and repurchase agreements and reverse sale
and repurchase agreements and securities borrowing/lending arrangements, and derivative instruments that are eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and/or subject to a master netting arrangement or similar agreement. ASU 2011-11
is effective for annual and interim periods beginning on January 1, 2013, and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08 “Testing Goodwill for Impairment.” The
provisions of ASU 2011-08 permit an entity the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity believes, as a
result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is required. Otherwise, no further impairment testing is required. ASU
No. 2011-08 includes examples of events and circumstances that may indicate that a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying amount. The provisions of ASU No. 2011-08 are effective for annual and interim goodwill
impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. Early adoption is permitted provided that the entity has not yet performed its annual impairment test for goodwill. The Company performs its annual impairment test
for goodwill as of September 30 of each year. The adoption of ASU No. 2011-08 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
  77 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(1.) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued) 
 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05 “Comprehensive Income
(Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income.” ASU 2011-05 amends Topic 220, “Comprehensive Income,” to require that all non-owner changes in stockholders’ equity be presented in either a single continuous statement
of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Additionally, ASU 2011-05 requires entities to present, on the face of the financial statements, reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other
comprehensive income to net income in the statement or statements where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The option to present components of other comprehensive income as part of the
statement of changes in stockholders’ equity was eliminated. ASU 2011-05 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011; however, certain provisions related to the presentation of reclassification adjustments
have been deferred by ASU 2011-12 “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards
Update No. 2011-05,” as further discussed above. The adoption of ASU 2011-05 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04 “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820)—Amendments to Achieve Common
Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” ASU 2011-04 changes the wording used to describe many of the requirements in GAAP for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value
measurements. Consequently, the amendments in this update result in common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in GAAP and IFRSs (International Financial Reporting Standards). ASU 2011-04 is effective prospectively during interim and
annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011. Early adoption by public entities is not permitted. The adoption of ASU 2011-04 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
 In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-03 “Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)—Reconsideration
of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreement.” ASU 2011-03 removes from the assessment of effective control the criterion relating to the transferor’s ability to repurchase or redeem financial assets on substantially the agreed terms,
even in the event of default by the transferee. ASU 2011-03 is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after December 15, 2011. The guidance should be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing
transactions that occur on or after the effective date. Early adoption is not permitted. The adoption of ASU 2011-03 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-02 “A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a
Troubled Debt Restructuring”, which clarifies when creditors should classify loan modifications as troubled debt restructurings. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011, and applies
retrospectively to restructurings occurring on or after the beginning of the year. The guidance on measuring the impairment of a receivable restructured in a troubled debt restructuring, as clarified, is effective on a prospective basis. A provision
in ASU No. 2011-02 also ends the FASB’s deferral of the additional disclosures related to troubled debt restructurings as required by ASU No. 2010-20. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU No. 2010-20 retrospectively to all
modifications and restructuring activities that have occurred from January 1, 2011. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the disclosures required by ASU No. 2010-20. 
  78 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(2.) INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investment securities are summarized below (in thousands). 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
December 31, 2011
 

 
    
Amortized
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Fair
 

 
    
Cost
 
    
Gains
 
    
Losses
 
    
Value
 

 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
    
$
94,947
  
    
$
2,770
  
    
$
5
  
    
$
97,712
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
119,099
  
    
 
5,336
  
    
 
11
  
    
 
124,424
  

 Mortgage-backed securities:
    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
98,679
  
    
 
2,944
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
101,623
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
63,838
  
    
 
1,017
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
64,855
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
73,226
  
    
 
3,376
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
76,602
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations:
    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
28,339
  
    
 
581
  
    
 
7
  
    
 
28,913
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
22,318
  
    
 
675
  
    
 
1
  
    
 
22,992
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
103,975
  
    
 
2,654
  
    
 
18
  
    
 
106,611
  

 Privately issued
    
 
327
  
    
 
1,762
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,089
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total collateralized mortgage obligations
    
 
154,959
  
    
 
5,672
  
    
 
26
  
    
 
160,605
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total mortgage-backed securities
    
 
390,702
  
    
 
13,009
  
    
 
26
  
    
 
403,685
  

 Asset-backed securities
    
 
297
  
    
 
1,400
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,697
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total available for sale securities
    
$
605,045
  
    
$
22,515
  
    
$
42
  
    
$
627,518
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 Securities held to maturity:
    



    



    



    




 State and political subdivisions
    
$
23,297
  
    
$
667
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
23,964
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
December 31, 2010
 

 
    
Amortized
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Fair
 

 
    
Cost
 
    
Gains
 
    
Losses
 
    
Value
 

 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
    
$
141,591
  
    
$
1,158
  
    
$
1,965
  
    
$
140,784
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
105,622
  
    
 
1,516
  
    
 
1,472
  
    
 
105,666
  

 Mortgage-backed securities:
    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
96,300
  
    
 
798
  
    
 
1,030
  
    
 
96,068
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
83,745
  
    
 
321
  
    
 
1,317
  
    
 
82,749
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
102,633
  
    
 
2,422
  
    
 
7
  
    
 
105,048
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations:
    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
8,938
  
    
 
231
  
    
 
11
  
    
 
9,158
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
15,917
  
    
 
329
  
    
 
1
  
    
 
16,245
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
106,969
  
    
 
1,761
  
    
 
289
  
    
 
108,441
  

 Privately issued
    
 
981
  
    
 
591
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,572
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total collateralized mortgage obligations
    
 
132,805
  
    
 
2,912
  
    
 
301
  
    
 
135,416
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total mortgage-backed securities
    
 
415,483
  
    
 
6,453
  
    
 
2,655
  
    
 
419,281
  

 Asset-backed securities
    
 
564
  
    
 
204
  
    
 
131
  
    
 
637
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total available for sale securities
    
$
663,260
  
    
$
9,331
  
    
$
6,223
  
    
$
666,368
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 Securities held to maturity:
    



    



    



    




 State and political subdivisions
    
$
28,162
  
    
$
687
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
28,849
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  79 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(2.) INVESTMENT SECURITIES (Continued)   
Interest and dividends on securities for the years ended December 31 are summarized
as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Taxable interest and dividends
    
$
14,185
  
    
$
17,101
  
    
$
16,466
  

 Tax-exempt interest and dividends
    
 
3,828
  
    
 
3,521
  
    
 
5,228
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total interest and dividends on securities
    
$
18,013
  
    
$
20,622
  
    
$
21,694
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 Sales and calls of securities available for sale for the years ended December 31 were as follows (in
thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Proceeds from sales and calls
    
$
44,514
  
    
$
122,090
  
    
$
224,928
  

 Gross realized gains
    
 
3,051
  
    
 
173
  
    
 
6,826
  

 Gross realized losses
    
 
48
  
    
 
4
  
    
 
3,397
  
 The scheduled maturities of securities available for sale and securities held to maturity at
December 31, 2011 are shown below. Actual expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations (in thousands). 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Amortized
 
    
Fair
 

 
    
Cost
 
    
Value
 

 Debt securities available for sale:
    



    




 Due in one year or less
    
$
24,025
  
    
$
24,166
  

 Due from one to five years
    
 
81,483
  
    
 
84,008
  

 Due after five years through ten years
    
 
183,639
  
    
 
190,461
  

 Due after ten years
    
 
315,898
  
    
 
328,883
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
605,045
  
    
$
627,518
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Debt securities held to maturity:
    



    




 Due in one year or less
    
$
18,496
  
    
$
18,631
  

 Due from one to five years
    
 
3,763
  
    
 
4,062
  

 Due after five years through ten years
    
 
905
  
    
 
1,096
  

 Due after ten years
    
 
133
  
    
 
175
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
23,297
  
    
$
23,964
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  80 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(2.) INVESTMENT SECURITIES (Continued)   
There were no unrealized losses in held to maturity securities at December 31, 2011
or December 31, 2010. Unrealized losses on investment securities available for sale and the fair value of the related securities, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous
unrealized loss position as of December 31 are summarized as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
December 31, 2011
 

 
    
Less than 12 months
 
    
12 months or longer
 
    
Total
 

 
    
Fair
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Fair
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Fair
 
    
Unrealized
 

 
    
Value
 
    
Losses
 
    
Value
 
    
Losses
 
    
Value
 
    
Losses
 

 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
    
$
2,177
  
    
$
1
  
    
$
5,246
  
    
$
4
  
    
$
7,423
  
    
$
5
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
452
  
    
 
2
  
    
 
646
  
    
 
9
  
    
 
1,098
  
    
 
11
  

 Mortgage-backed securities:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 Collateralized mortgage obligations:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,817
  
    
 
7
  
    
 
1,817
  
    
 
7
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
388
  
    
 
1
  
    
 
388
  
    
 
1
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
6,138
  
    
 
18
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
6,138
  
    
 
18
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total collateralized mortgage obligations
    
 
6,138
  
    
 
18
  
    
 
2,205
  
    
 
8
  
    
 
8,343
  
    
 
26
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total mortgage-backed securities
    
 
6,138
  
    
 
18
  
    
 
2,205
  
    
 
8
  
    
 
8,343
  
    
 
26
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total temporarily impaired securities
    
$
8,767
  
    
$
21
  
    
$
8,097
  
    
$
21
  
    
$
16,864
  
    
$
42
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
December 31, 2010
 

 
    
Less than 12 months
 
    
12 months or longer
 
    
Total
 

 
    
Fair
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Fair
 
    
Unrealized
 
    
Fair
 
    
Unrealized
 

 
    
Value
 
    
Losses
 
    
Value
 
    
Losses
 
    
Value
 
    
Losses
 

 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
    
$
47,752
  
    
$
1,911
  
    
$
8,821
  
    
$
54
  
    
$
56,573
  
    
$
1,965
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
38,398
  
    
 
1,472
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
38,398
  
    
 
1,472
  

 Mortgage-backed securities:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
46,777
  
    
 
1,030
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
46,777
  
    
 
1,030
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
60,707
  
    
 
1,317
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
60,707
  
    
 
1,317
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
5,135
  
    
 
7
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
5,135
  
    
 
7
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations:
    



    



    



    



    



    




 Federal National Mortgage Association
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,332
  
    
 
11
  
    
 
2,332
  
    
 
11
  

 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
    
 
612
  
    
 
1
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
612
  
    
 
1
  

 Government National Mortgage Association
    
 
17,798
  
    
 
289
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
17,798
  
    
 
289
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total collateralized mortgage obligations
    
 
18,410
  
    
 
290
  
    
 
2,332
  
    
 
11
  
    
 
20,742
  
    
 
301
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total mortgage-backed securities
    
 
131,029
  
    
 
2,644
  
    
 
2,332
  
    
 
11
  
    
 
133,361
  
    
 
2,655
  

 Asset-backed securities
    
 
111
  
    
 
61
  
    
 
96
  
    
 
70
  
    
 
207
  
    
 
131
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total temporarily impaired securities
    
$
217,290
  
    
$
6,088
  
    
$
11,249
  
    
$
135
  
    
$
228,539
  
    
$
6,223
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  81 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(2.) INVESTMENT SECURITIES (Continued)   
The following summarizes the amounts of OTTI recognized during the years ended
December 31 by investment category (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Mortgage-backed securities—Privately issued whole loan CMOs
    
$
18
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
2,353
  

 Asset-backed securities—Trust preferred securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
526
  
    
 
1,787
  

 Asset-backed securities—Other
    
 
—  
  
    
 
68
  
    
 
526
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total OTTI
    
$
18
  
    
$
594
  
    
$
4,666
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 The Company reviews investment securities on an ongoing basis for the presence of OTTI with formal
reviews performed quarterly. When evaluating debt securities for OTTI, management considers many factors, including: (1) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the issuer, (3) whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions, and (4) whether the Company has the intention to sell the debt security or whether it is more likely than not that it will be
required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. The assessment of whether OTTI exists involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and is based on the information available to management at a point in time. 
The total number of security positions in the investment portfolio in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2011 was 14
compared to 156 at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, the Company had positions in 9 investment securities with an amortized cost of $8.1 million and an unrealized loss of $21 thousand that have been in a continuous unrealized loss
position for more than 12 months. There were a total of 5 securities positions in the Company’s investment portfolio, with an amortized cost of $8.8 million and a total unrealized loss of $21 thousand at December 31, 2011, that have been
in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months. The unrealized loss on these investment securities was predominantly caused by changes in market interest rates, average life or credit spreads subsequent to purchase. The fair value
of most of the investment securities in the Company’s portfolio fluctuates as market interest rates change.  Based on
management’s review and evaluation of the Company’s debt securities as of December 31, 2011, the debt securities with unrealized losses were not considered to be OTTI. As of December 31, 2011, the Company does not intend to sell
any debt securities which have an unrealized loss, it is unlikely the Company will be required to sell these securities before recovery and the Company expects to recover the entire amortized cost of these impaired securities. Accordingly, as of
December 31, 2011, management has concluded that unrealized losses on its investment securities are temporary and no further impairment loss has been realized in the Company’s consolidated statements of income. 
  82 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(3.) LOANS HELD FOR SALE AND LOAN SERVICING RIGHTS 
Loans held for sale were entirely comprised of residential real estate mortgages and totaled $2.4 million and $3.1
million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The Company sells certain qualifying newly originated or
refinanced residential real estate mortgages on the secondary market. Residential real estate mortgages serviced for others, which are not included in the consolidated statements of financial condition, amounted to $297.8 million and $328.9 million
as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In connection with these mortgage-servicing activities, the Company administered escrow and other custodial funds which amounted to approximately $5.9 million and $6.2 million as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The activity in capitalized mortgage servicing assets is summarized as follows
for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Mortgage servicing assets, beginning of year
    
$
1,642
  
  
$
1,534
  
  
$
925
  

 Originations
    
 
319
  
  
 
408
  
  
 
952
  

 Amortization
    
 
(352
) 
  
 
(300
) 
  
 
(343
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Mortgage servicing assets, end of year
    
 
1,609
  
  
 
1,642
  
  
 
1,534
  

 Valuation allowance
    
 
(210
) 
  
 
(175
) 
  
 
(185
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Mortgage servicing assets, net, end of year
    
$
1,399
  
  
$
1,467
  
  
$
1,349
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company did not securitize any residential mortgage loans in 2011 or 2010. During 2009, the Company
pooled $16.0 million of one-to-four family residential mortgage loans and converted the loans to FHLMC securities. The Company retained servicing responsibilities for this securitization. The mortgage-backed securities received in exchange for the
loans were classified as available-for-sale and subsequently sold. The $564 thousand gain recognized on the sale of the securities is included in the consolidated statements of income under net gain on sales and calls of investment securities.
 Automobile loan servicing rights are accounted for using the amortization method. A servicing asset is established at fair
value at the time of the sale. The servicing asset is reported in other assets in the consolidated statements of financial position and amortized to noninterest income in the consolidated statements of income in proportion to and over the period of
estimated net servicing income. Impairment, if any, is recognized when carrying value exceeds the fair value as determined by calculating the present value of expected net future cash flows. The primary risk characteristic for measuring servicing
assets is payoff rates of the underlying loan pools. Valuation calculations rely on the predicted payoff assumption and, if actual payoff is quicker than expected, then future value would be impaired. 
During 2011, the Company sold $13.0 million of indirect auto loans under a 90%/10% participation agreement, recognizing a gain of $153
thousand. The loans were reclassified from portfolio to loans held for sale during the second quarter of 2011. As of December 31, 2011, a loan servicing asset for these loans of $574 thousand is included in other assets in the consolidated
statements of financial condition. Management reviewed the servicing asset for impairment as of December 31, 2011 and determined that no valuation allowance was necessary. The Company will continue to service the loans for a fee in accordance
with the participation agreement. 
  83 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(4.) LOANS 
The Company’s loan portfolio consisted of the following at December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Loans, Gross
 
    
Net DeferredLoan (Fees)Costs
 
  
Loans, Net
 

 2011
    



    



  




 Commercial business
    
$
233,727
  
    
$
109
  
  
$
233,836
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
394,034
  
    
 
(790
) 
  
 
393,244
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
113,865
  
    
 
46
  
  
 
113,911
  

 Home equity
    
 
227,853
  
    
 
3,913
  
  
 
231,766
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
465,807
  
    
 
21,906
  
  
 
487,713
  

 Other consumer
    
 
24,138
  
    
 
168
  
  
 
24,306
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
    
$
1,459,424
  
    
$
25,352
  
  
 
1,484,776
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  




 Allowance for loan losses
    



    



  
 
(23,260
) 


    



    



  
  
  
 

 Total loans, net
    



    



  
$
1,461,516
  


    



    



  
  
  
 






 2010
    



    



  




 Commercial business
    
$
210,948
  
    
$
83
  
  
$
211,031
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
353,537
  
    
 
(607
) 
  
 
352,930
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
129,553
  
    
 
27
  
  
 
129,580
  

 Home equity
    
 
205,070
  
    
 
3,257
  
  
 
208,327
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
400,221
  
    
 
17,795
  
  
 
418,016
  

 Other consumer
    
 
25,937
  
    
 
169
  
  
 
26,106
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
    
$
1,325,266
  
    
$
20,724
  
  
 
1,345,990
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  




 Allowance for loan losses
    



    



  
 
(20,466
) 


    



    



  
  
  
 

 Total loans, net
    



    



  
$
1,325,524
  


    



    



  
  
  
 
 The Company’s significant concentrations of credit risk in the loan portfolio relate to a geographic
concentration in the communities that the Company serves.  Certain executive officers, directors and their business interests
are customers of the Company. Transactions with these parties are based on substantially the same terms as similar transactions with unrelated third parties and do not carry more than normal credit risk. Borrowings by these related parties amounted
to $378 thousand and $609 thousand at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2011, new borrowings amounted to $4 thousand (including borrowings of executive officers and directors that were outstanding at the time of their election),
and repayments and other reductions were $235 thousand. 
  84 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(4.) LOANS (Continued) 
 
Past Due Loans Aging  The following table provides an analysis, by loan class, of the Company’s delinquent and nonaccrual loans as of December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
30-59 DaysPast Due
 
    
60-89 DaysPast Due
 
    
GreaterThan 90Days
 
    
Total PastDue
 
    
Nonaccrual
 
    
Current
 
    
TotalLoans
 

 2011
    



    



    



    



    



    



    




 Commercial business
    
$
35
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
35
  
    
$
1,259
  
    
$
232,433
  
    
$
233,727
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
165
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
165
  
    
 
2,928
  
    
 
390,941
  
    
 
394,034
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
517
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
517
  
    
 
1,644
  
    
 
111,704
  
    
 
113,865
  

 Home equity
    
 
749
  
    
 
68
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
817
  
    
 
682
  
    
 
226,354
  
    
 
227,853
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
984
  
    
 
92
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,076
  
    
 
558
  
    
 
464,173
  
    
 
465,807
  

 Other consumer
    
 
106
  
    
 
10
  
    
 
5
  
    
 
121
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
24,017
  
    
 
24,138
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total loans, gross
    
$
2,556
  
    
$
170
  
    
$
5
  
    
$
2,731
  
    
$
7,071
  
    
$
1,449,622
  
    
$
1,459,424
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 










 2010
    



    



    



    



    



    



    




 Commercial business
    
$
172
  
    
$
92
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
264
  
    
$
947
  
    
$
209,737
  
    
$
210,948
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
163
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
163
  
    
 
3,100
  
    
 
350,274
  
    
 
353,537
  

 Residential mortgage
    
 
492
  
    
 
6
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
498
  
    
 
2,102
  
    
 
126,953
  
    
 
129,553
  

 Home equity
    
 
428
  
    
 
47
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
475
  
    
 
875
  
    
 
203,720
  
    
 
205,070
  

 Consumer indirect
    
 
656
  
    
 
107
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
763
  
    
 
514
  
    
 
398,944
  
    
 
400,221
  

 Other consumer
    
 
82
  
    
 
1
  
    
 
3
  
    
 
86
  
    
 
41
  
    
 
25,810
  
    
 
25,937
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total loans, gross
    
$
1,993
  
    
$
253
  
    
$
3
  
    
$
2,249
  
    
$
7,579
  
    
$
1,315,438
  
    
$
1,325,266
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 There were no loans past due greater than 90 days and still accruing interest as of December 31,
2011 and December 31, 2010. There were $5 thousand and $3 thousand in consumer overdrafts which were past due greater than 90 days as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Consumer overdrafts are overdrawn deposit
accounts which have been reclassified as loans but by their terms do not accrue interest.  Interest income on nonaccrual
loans, if recognized, is recorded using the cash basis method of accounting. There was no interest income recognized on nonaccrual loans during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009, estimated interest income of $438 thousand, $474 thousand, and $388 thousand, respectively, would have been recorded if all such loans had been accruing interest according to their original contractual terms. 
Troubled Debt Restructurings  A modification of a loan constitutes a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”) when a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty and the modification constitutes a concession. The Company offers
various types of concessions when modifying loans, however, forgiveness of principal is rarely granted. Commercial loans modified in a TDR may involve temporary interest-only payments, term extensions, reducing the interest rate for the remaining
term of the loan, extending the maturity date at an interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk, requesting additional collateral, releasing collateral for consideration, or substituting or adding a new borrower
or guarantor. The following presents, by loan class, information related to loans modified in a TDR during the year ended December 31, 2011 (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Number ofContracts
 
    
Pre-ModificationOutstandingRecorded
Investment
 
    
Post-ModificationOutstandingRecordedInvestment
 

 Commercial business
    
 
6
  
    
$
142
  
    
$
142
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
1
  
    
 
280
  
    
 
280
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total
    
 
7
  
    
$
422
  
    
$
422
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  85 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(4.) LOANS (Continued) 
 
All of the loans identified as TDRs by the Company were previously on nonaccrual status
and reported as impaired loans prior to restructuring. The modifications primarily related to extending the amortization periods of the loans. All loans restructured during the year ended December 31, 2011 are on nonaccrual status as of
December 31, 2011. Nonaccrual loans that are restructured remain on nonaccrual status, but may move to accrual status after they have performed according to the restructured terms for a period of time. The TDR classification did not have a
material impact on the Company’s determination of the allowance for loan losses because the modified loans were impaired and evaluated for a specific reserve both before and after restructuring. 
For purposes of this disclosure, a loan modified as a TDR is considered to have defaulted when the borrower becomes 90 days past due. As
of December 31, 2011, one commercial real estate loan restructured in 2011 with a balance of $261 thousand at December 31, 2011 was in default. This default did not significantly impact the Company’s determination of the allowance for
loan losses.  Impaired Loans  Management has determined that specific commercial loans on nonaccrual status and all loans that have had their terms restructured in a troubled debt restructuring are impaired loans. The following table
presents data on impaired loans at December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
RecordedInvestment
 
    
UnpaidPrincipalBalance
 
    
RelatedAllowance
 
    
AverageRecordedInvestment
 
    
InterestIncomeRecognized
 

 2011
    



    



    



    



    




 With no related allowance recorded:
    



    



    



    



    




 Commercial business
    
$
342
  
    
$
1,266
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
361
  
    
$
—  
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
605
  
    
 
696
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
583
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
 
947
  
    
 
1,962
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
944
  
    
 
—  
  

 With an allowance recorded:
    



    



    



    



    




 Commercial business
    
 
917
  
    
 
917
  
    
 
436
  
    
 
1,033
  
    
 
—  
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
2,323
  
    
 
2,323
  
    
 
644
  
    
 
2,172
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
 
3,240
  
    
 
3,240
  
    
 
1,080
  
    
 
3,205
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
4,187
  
    
$
5,202
  
    
$
1,080
  
    
$
4,149
  
    
$
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 








 2010
    



    



    



    



    




 With no related allowance recorded:
    



    



    



    



    




 Commercial business
    
$
372
  
    
$
524
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
275
  
    
$
—  
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
187
  
    
 
187
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
481
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
 
559
  
    
 
711
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
756
  
    
 
—  
  

 With an allowance recorded:
    



    



    



    



    




 Commercial business
    
 
576
  
    
 
576
  
    
 
149
  
    
 
1,828
  
    
 
—  
  

 Commercial mortgage
    
 
2,913
  
    
 
2,921
  
    
 
883
  
    
 
1,897
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
 
3,489
  
    
 
3,497
  
    
 
1,032
  
    
 
3,725
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
4,048
  
    
$
4,208
  
    
$
1,032
  
    
$
4,481
  
    
$
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company’s average investment in impaired loans was
$3.8 million. The Company recognized $69 thousand of interest income on impaired loans during the year ended December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2011, there were no commitments to lend additional funds to those borrowers whose loans were
classified as impaired. 
  86 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(4.) LOANS (Continued) 
 
Credit Quality Indicators 
The Company categorizes loans into risk categories based on relevant information about the ability of borrowers to service their debt
such as: current financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and current economic trends, among other factors such as the fair value of collateral. The Company analyzes commercial business and
commercial mortgage loans individually by classifying the loans as to credit risk. Risk ratings are updated any time the situation warrants. The Company uses the following definitions for risk ratings: 
Special Mention: Loans classified as special mention have a potential weakness that deserves management’s
close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or of the Company’s credit position at some future date. 
Substandard: Loans classified as substandard are inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying
capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the Company will
sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected.  Doubtful: Loans classified as doubtful have
all the weaknesses inherent in those classified as Substandard, with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and
improbable.  Loans not meeting the criteria above that are analyzed individually as part of the process
described above are considered “Uncriticized” or pass-rated loans and are included in groups of homogeneous loans with similar risk and loss characteristics.  The following table sets forth the Company’s commercial loan portfolio, categorized by internally assigned asset classification, as of December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
CommercialBusiness
 
    
CommercialMortgage
 

 2011
    



    




 Uncriticized
    
$
221,477
  
    
$
383,700
  

 Special mention
    
 
7,445
  
    
 
2,388
  

 Substandard
    
 
4,805
  
    
 
7,946
  

 Doubtful
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total
    
$
233,727
  
    
$
394,034
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 





 2010
    



    




 Uncriticized
    
$
194,510
  
    
$
338,061
  

 Special mention
    
 
11,479
  
    
 
4,931
  

 Substandard
    
 
4,959
  
    
 
10,545
  

 Doubtful
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total
    
$
210,948
  
    
$
353,537
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  87 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(4.) LOANS (Continued) 
 
The Company utilizes payment status as a means of identifying and reporting problem and
potential problem retail loans. The Company considers nonaccrual loans and loans past due greater than 90 days and still accruing interest to be non-performing. The following table sets forth the Company’s retail loan portfolio, categorized by
payment status, as of December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
ResidentialMortgage
 
    
HomeEquity
 
    
ConsumerIndirect
 
    
OtherConsumer
 

 2011
    



    



    



    




 Performing
    
$
112,221
  
    
$
227,171
  
    
$
465,249
  
    
$
24,138
  

 Non-performing
    
 
1,644
  
    
 
682
  
    
 
558
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total
    
$
113,865
  
    
$
227,853
  
    
$
465,807
  
    
$
24,138
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 2010
    



    



    



    




 Performing
    
$
127,451
  
    
$
204,195
  
    
$
399,707
  
    
$
25,896
  

 Non-performing
    
 
2,102
  
    
 
875
  
    
 
514
  
    
 
41
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total
    
$
129,553
  
    
$
205,070
  
    
$
400,221
  
    
$
25,937
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 Allowance for Loan Losses  The following tables set forth the changes in the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Commercial
 
  
CommercialMortgage
 
  
ResidentialMortgage
 
  
HomeEquity
 
  
ConsumerIndirect
 
  
OtherConsumer
 
  
Total
 

 2011
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Allowance for loan losses:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Beginning balance
    
$
3,712
  
  
$
6,431
  
  
$
1,013
  
  
$
972
  
  
$
7,754
  
  
$
584
  
  
$
20,466
  

 Charge-offs
    
 
(1,346
) 
  
 
(751
) 
  
 
(152
) 
  
 
(449
) 
  
 
(4,713
) 
  
 
(877
) 
  
 
(8,288
) 

 Recoveries
    
 
401
  
  
 
245
  
  
 
90
  
  
 
44
  
  
 
2,066
  
  
 
456
  
  
 
3,302
  

 Provision (credit)
    
 
1,269
  
  
 
493
  
  
 
(93
) 
  
 
675
  
  
 
5,082
  
  
 
354
  
  
 
7,780
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
    
$
4,036
  
  
$
6,418
  
  
$
858
  
  
$
1,242
  
  
$
10,189
  
  
$
517
  
  
$
23,260
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Evaluated for impairment:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Individually
    
$
436
  
  
$
644
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,080
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Collectively
    
$
3,600
  
  
$
5,774
  
  
$
858
  
  
$
1,242
  
  
$
10,189
  
  
$
517
  
  
$
22,180
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 










 Loans:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Ending balance
    
$
233,727
  
  
$
394,034
  
  
$
113,865
  
  
$
227,853
  
  
$
465,807
  
  
$
24,138
  
  
$
1,459,424
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Evaluated for impairment:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Individually
    
$
1,259
  
  
$
2,928
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
4,187
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Collectively
    
$
232,468
  
  
$
391,106
  
  
$
113,865
  
  
$
227,853
  
  
$
465,807
  
  
$
24,138
  
  
$
1,455,237
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  88 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(4.) LOANS (Continued) 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Commercial
 
  
CommercialMortgage
 
  
ResidentialMortgage
 
  
HomeEquity
 
  
ConsumerIndirect
 
  
OtherConsumer
 
  
Total
 

 2010
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Allowance for loan losses:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Beginning balance
    
$
4,407
  
  
$
6,638
  
  
$
1,251
  
  
$
1,043
  
  
$
6,837
  
  
$
565
  
  
$
20,741
  

 Charge-offs
    
 
(3,426
) 
  
 
(263
) 
  
 
(290
) 
  
 
(259
) 
  
 
(4,669
) 
  
 
(909
) 
  
 
(9,816
) 

 Recoveries
    
 
326
  
  
 
501
  
  
 
21
  
  
 
36
  
  
 
1,485
  
  
 
485
  
  
 
2,854
  

 Provision (credit)
    
 
2,405
  
  
 
(445
) 
  
 
31
  
  
 
152
  
  
 
4,101
  
  
 
443
  
  
 
6,687
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending balance
    
$
3,712
  
  
$
6,431
  
  
$
1,013
  
  
$
972
  
  
$
7,754
  
  
$
584
  
  
$
20,466
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Evaluated for impairment:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Individually
    
$
149
  
  
$
883
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
1,032
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Collectively
    
$
3,563
  
  
$
5,548
  
  
$
1,013
  
  
$
972
  
  
$
7,754
  
  
$
584
  
  
$
19,434
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 










 Loans:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Ending balance
    
$
210,948
  
  
$
353,537
  
  
$
129,553
  
  
$
205,070
  
  
$
400,221
  
  
$
25,937
  
  
$
1,325,266
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Evaluated for impairment:
    



  



  



  



  



  



  




 Individually
    
$
948
  
  
$
3,100
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
4,048
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Collectively
    
$
210,000
  
  
$
350,437
  
  
$
129,553
  
  
$
205,070
  
  
$
400,221
  
  
$
25,937
  
  
$
1,321,218
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  





September 30,


 2009
    
Total
 

 Allowance for loan losses:
    




 Beginning balance
    
$
18,749
  

 Charge-offs
    
 
(7,830
) 

 Recoveries
    
 
2,120
  

 Provision
    
 
7,702
  


    
  
  
 

 Ending balance
    
$
20,741
  


    
  
  
 
 Risk Characteristics  Commercial business loans primarily consist of loans to small to mid-sized businesses in our market area in a diverse range of industries. These loans are of higher risk and typically are made on the
basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from the cash flow of the borrower’s business. Further, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. The credit risk
related to commercial loans is largely influenced by general economic conditions and the resulting impact on a borrower’s operations or on the value of underlying collateral, if any. 
Commercial mortgage loans generally have larger balances and involve a greater degree of risk than residential mortgage loans, inferring
higher potential losses on an individual customer basis. Loan repayment is often dependent on the successful operation and management of the properties, as well as on the collateral securing the loan. Economic events or conditions in the real estate
market could have an adverse impact on the cash flows generated by properties securing the Company’s commercial real estate loans and on the value of such properties.  Residential mortgage loans and home equities (comprised of home equity loans and home equity lines) are generally made on the basis of the borrower’s ability to make repayment from his or her
employment and other income, but are secured by real property whose value tends to be more easily ascertainable. Credit risk for these types of loans is generally influenced by general economic conditions, the characteristics of individual
borrowers, and the nature of the loan collateral.  Consumer indirect and other consumer loans may entail greater credit risk
than residential mortgage loans and home equities, particularly in the case of other consumer loans which are unsecured or, in the case of indirect consumer loans, secured by depreciable assets, such as automobiles or boats. In such cases, any
repossessed collateral for a defaulted consumer loan may not provide an adequate source of repayment of the outstanding loan balance. In addition, consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, thus
are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances such as job loss, illness or personal bankruptcy. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which
can be recovered on such loans. 
  89 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(5.) PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT, NET 
Major classes of premises and equipment at December 31 are summarized as follows (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Land and land improvements
    
$
4,330
  
  
$
4,335
  

 Buildings and leasehold improvements
    
 
40,590
  
  
 
39,215
  

 Furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles
    
 
23,414
  
  
 
23,645
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Premises and equipment
    
 
68,334
  
  
 
67,195
  

 Accumulated depreciation and amortization
    
 
(35,249
) 
  
 
(33,932
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Premises and equipment, net
    
$
33,085
  
  
$
33,263
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Depreciation and amortization expense, included in occupancy and equipment expense in the consolidated
statements of income, amounted to $3.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, and $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. 
(6.) GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
The carrying amount of goodwill totaled $37.4 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The goodwill relates
to the Company’s primary subsidiary and reporting unit, Five Star Bank. The Company performs a goodwill impairment test on an annual basis or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant. As of September 30, 2011, the
Company performed the annual goodwill impairment test and determined the estimated fair value of our reporting unit to be in excess of its carrying amount. Accordingly, as of the Company’s annual impairment test date, there was no indication of
goodwill impairment. The Company tests its goodwill for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting unit below its carrying amount. 
Declines in the market value of the Company’s publicly traded stock price or declines in the Company’s ability to generate
future cash flows may increase the potential that goodwill recorded on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition be designated as impaired and that the Company may incur a goodwill write-down in the future. 
(7.) DEPOSITS 
A summary of deposits as of December 31 are as follows (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 

 Noninterest-bearing demand
    
$
393,421
  
    
$
350,877
  

 Interest-bearing demand
    
 
362,555
  
    
 
374,900
  

 Savings and money market
    
 
474,947
  
    
 
417,359
  

 Certificates of deposit, due:
    



    




 Within one year
    
 
547,874
  
    
 
554,104
  

 One to two years
    
 
84,687
  
    
 
126,955
  

 Two to three years
    
 
17,974
  
    
 
14,653
  

 Three to five years
    
 
50,000
  
    
 
43,888
  

 Thereafter
    
 
141
  
    
 
154
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total certificates of deposit
    
 
700,676
  
    
 
739,754
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total deposits
    
$
1,931,599
  
    
$
1,882,890
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 Certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
amounted to $214.2 million, $183.9 million and $173.4 million, respectively.  Interest expense by deposit type for the years ended
December 31 is summarized as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Interest-bearing demand
    
$
614
  
    
$
705
  
    
$
772
  

 Savings and money market
    
 
1,056
  
    
 
1,133
  
    
 
1,090
  

 Certificates of deposit
    
 
9,764
  
    
 
13,015
  
    
 
17,228
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total interest expense on deposits
    
$
11,434
  
    
$
14,853
  
    
$
19,090
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  90 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(8.) BORROWINGS 
Outstanding borrowings are summarized as follows as of December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 

 Short-term borrowings:
    



    




 Federal funds purchased
    
$
11,597
  
    
$
38,200
  

 Repurchase agreements
    
 
36,301
  
    
 
38,910
  

 Short-term FHLB borrowings
    
 
102,800
  
    
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total short-term borrowings
    
 
150,698
  
    
 
77,110
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Long-term borrowings:
    



    




 FHLB advances and repurchase agreements
    
 
—  
  
    
 
10,065
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
    
 
—  
  
    
 
16,702
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total long-term borrowings
    
 
—  
  
    
 
26,767
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total borrowings
    
$
150,698
  
    
$
103,877
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 The Company classifies borrowings as short-term or long-term in accordance with the original terms of the
agreement. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s short-term borrowings had a weighted average rate of 0.39%.  Short-term Borrowings
 Federal funds purchased are short-term borrowings that typically mature within one to ninety days. Federal funds
purchased totaled $11.6 million and $38.2 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Repurchase agreements are secured overnight borrowings with customers. These short-term repurchase agreements amounted to $36.3 million and $38.9
million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Short-term FHLB borrowings have original maturities of less than one year and include overnight borrowings which the Company typically utilizes to address short term funding needs as they
arise. Short-term FHLB borrowings at December 31, 2011 consisted of $65.0 million in overnight borrowings and $37.8 million in short-term advances.  Long-term Borrowings  The Company has credit capacity with the FHLB and
can borrow through facilities that include an overnight line of credit, amortizing and term advances, and repurchase agreements. The FHLB credit capacity is collateralized by securities from the Company’s investment portfolio and certain
qualifying loans. FHLB advances totaled $65 thousand as of December 31, 2010. FHLB repurchase agreements are stated at the amount of cash received in connection with the transaction. The Company may be required to provide additional collateral
based on the fair value of the underlying securities. FHLB repurchase agreements totaled $10.0 million as of December 31, 2010. The $10.1 million of outstanding FHLB advances and repurchase agreements at December 31, 2010 were repaid upon
maturity during 2011.  In February 2001, the Company formed Financial Institutions Statutory Trust I (the “Trust”)
for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. The Company’s $502 thousand investment in the common equity of the Trust was classified in the consolidated statements of financial condition as other assets and $16.7 million of
related 10.20% junior subordinated debentures were classified as long-term borrowings. In 2001, the Company incurred costs relating to the issuance of the debentures totaling $487 thousand. These costs, which were included in other assets on the
consolidated statements of financial condition, were deferred and were being amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method over a twenty year period.  In August 2011, the Company redeemed all of the 10.20% junior subordinated debentures at a redemption price equaling 105.1% of the principal amount redeemed, plus all accrued and unpaid interest. As a
result of the redemption, the Company recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.1 million, consisting of the redemption premium of $852 thousand and the write-off of the remaining unamortized issuance costs of $231 thousand. 
Interest expense on borrowings for the years ended December 31 is summarized as follows (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Short-term borrowings
    
$
500
  
    
$
365
  
    
$
270
  

 Long-term borrowings
    
 
1,321
  
    
 
2,502
  
    
 
2,857
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total interest expense on borrowings
    
$
1,821
  
    
$
2,867
  
    
$
3,127
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  91 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(9.) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk  The Company has financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk established in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments
to extend credit and standby letters of credit. These instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk extending beyond amounts recognized in the financial statements. 
The Company’s exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instrument for commitments
to extend credit and standby letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved with extending loans to customers. The Company uses the same credit underwriting policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as for on-balance
sheet instruments.  Off-balance sheet commitments as of December 31 consist of the following (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 

 Commitments to extend credit
    
$
374,266
  
    
$
357,240
  

 Standby letters of credit
    
 
8,855
  
    
 
6,524
  
 Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any
condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Commitments may expire without being drawn upon; therefore the total commitment amounts do not
necessarily represent future cash requirements. Each customer’s creditworthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if any, is based on management’s credit evaluation of the borrower. Standby letters
of credit are conditional lending commitments issued by the Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. These standby letters of credit are primarily issued to support private borrowing arrangements. The credit risk involved
in issuing standby letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers.  The
Company also extends rate lock agreements to borrowers related to the origination of residential mortgage loans. To mitigate the interest rate risk inherent in these rate lock agreements when the Company intends to sell the related loan, once
originated, as well as closed residential mortgage loans held for sale, the Company enters into forward commitments to sell individual residential mortgages. Rate lock agreements and forward commitments are considered derivatives and are recorded at
fair value. Forward sales commitments totaled $2.9 million and $8.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, the net change in the fair values of these derivatives was recognized as other noninterest income or other
noninterest expense in the consolidated statements of income.  Lease Obligations 
The Company is obligated under a number of noncancellable operating lease agreements for land, buildings and equipment. Certain of these
leases provide for escalation clauses and contain renewal options calling for increased rentals if the lease is renewed. Future minimum payments by year and in the aggregate, under the noncancellable leases with initial or remaining terms of one
year or more, are as follows at December 31, 2011 (in thousands):   





September 30,


 2012
    
$
1,242
  

 2013
    
 
1,049
  

 2014
    
 
1,017
  

 2015
    
 
962
  

 2016
    
 
927
  

 Thereafter
    
 
4,963
  


    
  
  
 


    
$
10,160
  


    
  
  
 
 Rent expense relating to these operating leases, included in occupancy and equipment expense in the
statements of income, was $1.5 million, $1.4 million and $1.5 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Contingent Liabilities
 In the ordinary course of business there are various threatened and pending legal proceedings against the Company. Based
on consultation with outside legal counsel, management believes that the aggregate liability, if any, arising from such litigation would not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. 
  92 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(10.) REGULATORY MATTERS 
General  The supervision and regulation of financial and bank holding companies and their subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit insurance funds regulated by the FDIC and
the banking system as a whole, and not for the protection of shareholders or creditors of bank holding companies. The various bank regulatory agencies have broad enforcement power over financial holding companies and banks, including the power to
impose substantial fines, operational restrictions and other penalties for violations of laws and regulations and for safety and soundness considerations.  Capital  Banks and financial holding companies are subject to various
regulatory capital requirements administered by state and federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could
have a direct material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Capital adequacy guidelines and, additionally for banks, prompt corrective action regulations, involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain
off-balance sheet items calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weighting and other factors. 
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Bank to maintain minimum amounts
and ratios of Total and Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets and of Tier 1 capital to average assets (all as defined in the regulations). These minimum amounts and ratios are included in the table below. 
The Company’s and the Bank’s Tier 1 capital consists of shareholders’ equity excluding unrealized gains and losses on
securities available for sale (except for unrealized losses which have been determined to be other than temporary and recognized as expense in the consolidated statements of income), goodwill and other intangible assets and disallowed portions of
deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2011, Tier 1 capital for the Company includes, subject to limitation, $17.5 million of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2010, Tier 1 capital for the Company also includes, subject to limitation,
$16.7 million of trust preferred securities issued by FISI Statutory Trust I (see Note 8, Borrowings) and $37.5 million of preferred stock issued to the U.S. Department of Treasury (the “Treasury”) through the Treasury’s Troubled
Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) (see Note 11, Shareholders’ Equity). The Company and the Bank’s total capital are comprised of Tier 1 capital for each entity plus a permissible portion of the allowance for loan losses. 
The Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios are calculated by dividing the respective capital amounts by risk-weighted assets.
Risk-weighted assets are calculated based on regulatory requirements and include total assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets and disallowed portions of deferred tax assets, allocated by risk weight category and certain
off-balance-sheet items (primarily loan commitments and securities more than one level below investment grade that are subject to the low level exposure rules). The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted quarterly
average total assets, which exclude goodwill and other intangible assets and disallowed portions of deferred tax assets. 
  93 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(10.) REGULATORY MATTERS (Continued)  The Company’s and the Bank’s actual and required regulatory capital ratios were as follows (in thousands):   




September 30,


September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
 
    
Actual
 
 
For CapitalAdequacy Purposes
 
 
Well Capitalized
 

 
    
 
    
Amount
 
    
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
    
Ratio
 
 
Amount
 
    
Ratio
 

 December 31, 2011:
    

    



    



 



    



 



    




 Tier 1 leverage:
    
Company
    
$
197,086
  
    
 
8.63
% 
 
$
91,310
  
    
 
4.00
% 
 
$
114,138
  
    
 
5.00
% 


    
Bank
    
 
184,639
  
    
 
8.10
  
 
 
91,192
  
    
 
4.00
  
 
 
113,990
  
    
 
5.00
  

 Tier 1 capital:
    
Company
    
 
197,086
  
    
 
12.20
  
 
 
64,645
  
    
 
4.00
  
 
 
96,967
  
    
 
6.00
  


    
Bank
    
 
184,639
  
    
 
11.46
  
 
 
64,445
  
    
 
4.00
  
 
 
96,667
  
    
 
6.00
  

 Total risk-based capital:
    
Company
    
 
217,325
  
    
 
13.45
  
 
 
129,290
  
    
 
8.00
  
 
 
161,612
  
    
 
10.00
  


    
Bank
    
 
204,817
  
    
 
12.71
  
 
 
128,890
  
    
 
8.00
  
 
 
161,112
  
    
 
10.00
  










 December 31, 2010:
    

    



    



 



    



 



    




 Tier 1 leverage:
    
Company
    
$
181,089
  
    
 
8.31
% 
 
$
87,116
  
    
 
4.00
% 
 
$
108,896
  
    
 
5.00
% 


    
Bank
    
 
156,957
  
    
 
7.22
  
 
 
86,958
  
    
 
4.00
  
 
 
108,697
  
    
 
5.00
  

 Tier 1 capital:
    
Company
    
 
181,089
  
    
 
12.34
  
 
 
58,678
  
    
 
4.00
  
 
 
88,017
  
    
 
6.00
  


    
Bank
    
 
156,957
  
    
 
10.74
  
 
 
58,450
  
    
 
4.00
  
 
 
87,674
  
    
 
6.00
  

 Total risk-based capital:
    
Company
    
 
199,452
  
    
 
13.60
  
 
 
117,357
  
    
 
8.00
  
 
 
146,696
  
    
 
10.00
  


    
Bank
    
 
175,250
  
    
 
11.99
  
 
 
116,899
  
    
 
8.00
  
 
 
146,124
  
    
 
10.00
  
 As of December 31, 2011, the Company and Bank were considered “well capitalized” under all
regulatory capital guidelines. Such determination has been made based on the Tier 1 leverage, Tier 1 capital and total risk-based capital ratios.  Federal Reserve Requirements  The Bank is required to maintain a reserve
balance at the FRB of New York. The reserve requirement for the Bank totaled $1.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Dividend
Restrictions  In the ordinary course of business, the Company is dependent upon dividends from Five Star Bank to provide
funds for the payment of interest expense on the junior subordinated debentures, dividends to shareholders and to provide for other cash requirements. Banking regulations may limit the amount of dividends that may be paid. Approval by regulatory
authorities is required if the effect of dividends declared would cause the regulatory capital of the Bank to fall below specified minimum levels. Approval is also required if dividends declared exceed the net profits for that year combined with the
retained net profits for the preceding two years. The Company is no longer subject to the limitations prescribed by the terms of the Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program (see Note 11, Shareholders’ Equity). 
  94 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(11.) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
The Company’s authorized capital stock consists of 50,210,000 shares of capital stock, 50,000,000 of which
are common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 210,000 of which are preferred stock, par value $100 per share, which is designated into two classes, Class A of which 10,000 shares are authorized, and Class B of which 200,000 shares
are authorized. There are two series of Class A preferred stock: Series A 3% preferred stock and the Series A preferred stock. There is one series of Class B preferred stock: Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock. There were 174,735 shares and
183,259 shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Common Stock 
The following table sets forth the changes in the number of shares of common stock for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Outstanding
 
  
Treasury
 
  
Issued
 

 2011
    



  



  




 Shares outstanding at beginning of year
    
 
10,937,506
  
  
 
410,616
  
  
 
11,348,122
  

 Shares issued in common stock offering
    
 
2,813,475
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,813,475
  

 Restricted stock awards issued, net of forfeitures
    
 
51,070
  
  
 
(51,070
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Stock options exercised
    
 
6,357
  
  
 
(6,357
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Treasury stock purchases
    
 
(11,181
) 
  
 
11,181
  
  
 
—  
  

 Directors’ retainer
    
 
5,889
  
  
 
(5,889
) 
  
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Shares outstanding at end of year
    
 
13,803,116
  
  
 
358,481
  
  
 
14,161,597
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 2010
    



  



  




 Shares outstanding at beginning of year
    
 
10,820,268
  
  
 
527,854
  
  
 
11,348,122
  

 Restricted stock awards issued, net of forfeitures
    
 
99,324
  
  
 
(99,324
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Stock options exercised
    
 
15,563
  
  
 
(15,563
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Treasury stock purchases
    
 
(3,658
) 
  
 
3,658
  
  
 
—  
  

 Directors’ retainer
    
 
6,009
  
  
 
(6,009
) 
  
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Shares outstanding at end of year
    
 
10,937,506
  
  
 
410,616
  
  
 
11,348,122
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Issuance of Common Stock  In March 2011, the Company completed the sale of 2,813,475 shares of its common stock through an underwritten public offering at a price of $16.35 per share. The net proceeds of the offering, after
deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses, were $43.1 million. A portion of the proceeds from this offering was used to redeem the Company’s Series A preferred stock and the 10.20% junior subordinated debentures.
 Preferred Stock  Series A 3% Preferred Stock. There were 1,500 shares and 1,533 shares of Series A 3% preferred stock issued and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Holders of
Series A 3% preferred stock are entitled to receive an annual dividend of $3.00 per share, which is cumulative and payable quarterly. Holders of Series A 3% preferred stock have no pre-emptive right in, or right to purchase or subscribe for, any
additional shares of the Company’s capital stock and have no voting rights. Dividend or dissolution payments to the Class A shareholders must be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, before any dividends or dissolution payments can
be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, to the holders of Class B preferred stock or common stock. The Series A 3% preferred stock is not convertible into any other of the Company’s securities. 
Series B-1 8.48% Preferred Stock. There were 173,235 shares and 174,223 shares of Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock issued
and outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Holders of Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock are entitled to receive an annual dividend of $8.48 per share, which is cumulative and payable quarterly. Holders of Series B-1 8.48%
preferred stock have no pre-emptive right in, or right to purchase or subscribe for, any additional shares of the Company’s common stock and have no voting rights. Accumulated dividends on the Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock do not bear
interest, and the Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock is not subject to redemption. Dividend or dissolution payments to the Class B shareholders must be declared and paid, or set apart for payment, before any dividends or dissolution payments are
declared and paid, or set apart for payment, to the holders of common stock. The Series B-1 8.48% preferred stock is not convertible into any other of the Company’s securities. 
  95 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(11.) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY (Continued) 
 
Redemption of Series A Preferred Stock and Warrant 
In December 2008, under the Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase
Agreement—Standard Terms with the Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Company sold to the Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $37.5 million, 7,503 shares of fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series A
(“Series A” preferred stock) and a warrant to purchase up to 378,175 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, at an exercise price of $14.88 per share (the “Warrant”), of the Company. 
Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company’s ability to declare or pay dividends on any of its shares was limited.
Specifically, the Company was prohibited from paying any dividend with respect to shares of common stock, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking pari passu with the Series A preferred stock or repurchasing or redeeming any shares
of the Company’s common stock, other junior securities or preferred stock ranking pari passu with the Series A preferred stock in any quarter unless all accrued and unpaid dividends were paid on the Series A preferred stock for all past
dividend periods (including the latest completed dividend period), subject to certain limited exceptions.  The $37.5 million
in proceeds was allocated to the Series A preferred stock and the Warrant based on their relative fair values at issuance ($35.5 million was allocated to the Series A preferred stock and $2.0 million to the Warrant). The resulting discount for the
Series A preferred stock was to be accreted over five years through retained earnings as a preferred stock dividend. The Warrant was to remain in additional paid-in-capital at its initial book value until it was exercised or expired. 
In February 2011, the Company redeemed one-third, or $12.5 million, of the Series A preferred stock. In March 2011, the remaining $25.0
million of the Series A preferred stock was redeemed. The unamortized discount related to the Series A preferred stock was charged to retained earnings upon redemption. The complete redemption of the Series A preferred stock removed the TARP
restrictions pertaining to the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase its common stock, as well as certain restrictions associated with executive compensation. 
In May 2011, the Company repurchased the Warrant issued to the Treasury. The repurchase price of $2.1 million was recorded as a reduction
of additional paid-in capital. 
  96 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(12.) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
Total comprehensive income is reported in the accompanying consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’
equity. Information related to comprehensive income for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Pre-taxAmount
 
  
Tax Expense(Benefit)
 
  
Net-of-taxAmount
 

 2011
    



  



  




 Securities available for sale:
    



  



  




 Change in net unrealized gain/loss during the period
    
$
22,350
  
  
$
8,855
  
  
$
13,495
  

 Reclassification adjustment for gains included in income
    
 
(3,003
) 
  
 
(1,190
) 
  
 
(1,813
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for impairment charges included in income
    
 
18
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
11
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
19,365
  
  
 
7,672
  
  
 
11,693
  

 Change in net actuarial gain/loss and prior service benefit (cost) on defined benefit pension and post-retirement
plans
    
 
(9,979
) 
  
 
(3,953
) 
  
 
(6,026
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income
    
$
9,386
  
  
$
3,719
  
  
 
5,667
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Net income
    



  



  
 
22,799
  


    



  



  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
    



  



  
$
28,466
  


    



  



  
  
  
 






 2010
    



  



  




 Securities available for sale:
    



  



  




 Change in net unrealized gain/loss during the period
    
$
(16
) 
  
$
19
  
  
$
(35
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for gains included in income
    
 
(169
) 
  
 
(67
) 
  
 
(102
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for impairment charges included in income
    
 
594
  
  
 
235
  
  
 
359
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
409
  
  
 
187
  
  
 
222
  

 Change in net actuarial gain/loss and prior service benefit (cost) on defined benefit pension and post-retirement
plans
    
 
(2,192
) 
  
 
(950
) 
  
 
(1,242
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive loss
    
$
(1,783
) 
  
$
(763
) 
  
 
(1,020
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Net income
    



  



  
 
21,287
  


    



  



  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
    



  



  
$
20,267
  


    



  



  
  
  
 






 2009
    



  



  




 Securities available for sale:
    



  



  




 Change in net unrealized gain/loss during the period
    
$
(4,186
) 
  
$
(1,619
) 
  
$
(2,567
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for gains included in income
    
 
(3,429
) 
  
 
(1,327
) 
  
 
(2,102
) 

 Reclassification adjustment for impairment charges included in income
    
 
4,666
  
  
 
1,805
  
  
 
2,861
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
(2,949
) 
  
 
(1,141
) 
  
 
(1,808
) 

 Change in net actuarial gain/loss and prior service benefit (cost) on defined benefit pension and post-retirement
plans
    
 
3,457
  
  
 
1,338
  
  
 
2,119
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income
    
$
508
  
  
$
197
  
  
 
311
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




 Net income
    



  



  
 
14,441
  


    



  



  
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
    



  



  
$
14,752
  


    



  



  
  
  
 
 The components of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, as of December 31 were
as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Net actuarial loss and prior service cost on defined benefit pension and post-retirement plans
    
$
(12,625
) 
  
$
(6,599
) 

 Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale
    
 
13,570
  
  
 
1,877
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
$
945
  
  
$
(4,722
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  97 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(13.) SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Company maintains certain stock-based compensation plans, approved by the Company’s shareholders that are
administered by the Board, or the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board. In May 2009, the shareholders of the Company approved two share-based compensation plans, the 2009 Management Stock Incentive Plan (“Management
Plan”) and the 2009 Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan (“Director’s Plan”). An aggregate of 690,000 shares has been reserved for issuance by the Company under the terms of the Management Plan pursuant to the grant of incentive
stock options (not to exceed 500,000 shares), non-qualified stock options and restricted stock grants, all which are defined in the plan. An aggregate of 250,000 shares has been reserved for issuance by the Company under the terms of the
Director’s Plan pursuant to the grant of non-qualified stock options and restricted stock grants, all which are defined in the plan. Under both plans, for purposes of calculating the number of shares of common stock available for issuance, each
share of common stock granted pursuant to a restricted stock grant shall count as 1.64 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 213,000 and 451,000 shares available for grant under the Director’s Plan and
Management Plan, respectively, of which 61% were available for issuance as restricted stock grants.  Under the Management Plan
and the Director’s Plan (the “Plans”), the Board (or the Compensation Committee) may establish and prescribe grant guidelines including various terms and conditions for the granting of stock-based compensation. For stock options, the
exercise price of each option equals the market price of the Company’s stock on the date of the grant. All options expire after a period of ten years from the date of grant and generally become fully exercisable over a period of 3 to 5 years
from the grant date. When option recipients exercise their options, the Company issues shares from treasury stock and records the proceeds as additions to capital. For restricted stock, shares generally vest over 2 to 3 years from the grant
date. Vesting of the shares may be based on years of service, established performance measures or both. If restricted stock grants are forfeited before they vest, the shares are reacquired into treasury stock. 
The share-based compensation plans were established to allow for the granting of compensation awards to attract, motivate and retain
employees, executive officers and non-employee directors who contribute to the success and profitability of the Company and to give such persons a proprietary interest in the Company, thereby enhancing their personal interest in the Company’s
success.  The share-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31 was as follows (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
    
2009
 

 Stock options:
    



    



    




 Management Stock Incentive Plan
    
$
55
  
    
$
110
  
    
$
222
  

 Director Stock Incentive Plan
    
 
14
  
    
 
43
  
    
 
46
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total stock option expense
    
 
69
  
    
 
153
  
    
 
268
  

 Restricted stock awards:
    



    



    




 Management Stock Incentive Plan
    
 
917
  
    
 
761
  
    
 
488
  

 Director Stock Incentive Plan
    
 
119
  
    
 
117
  
    
 
98
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total restricted stock award expense
    
 
1,036
  
    
 
878
  
    
 
586
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total share-based compensation
    
$
1,105
  
    
$
1,031
  
    
$
854
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 The Company uses the Black-Scholes valuation method to estimate the fair value of its stock option
awards. There were no stock options awarded during 2011, 2010 or 2009. The following is a summary of stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per share amounts): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


September 30,


September 30,


 
 
Number of
 
 
WeightedAverageExercise
 
 
WeightedAverageRemainingContractual
 
AggregateIntrinsic
 

 
 
Options
 
 
Price
 
 
Term
 
Value
 

 Outstanding at beginning of year
 
 
409,893
  
 
$
20.64
  
 

 




 Granted
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 

 




 Exercised
 
 
(6,357
) 
 
 
14.26
  
 

 




 Forfeited
 
 
(550
) 
 
 
15.85
  
 

 




 Expired
 
 
(34,928
) 
 
 
21.28
  
 

 





 
  
  
 
 



 

 




 Outstanding at end of year
 
 
368,058
  
 
$
20.70
  
 
3.65 years
 
$
9
  

 Exercisable at end of year
 
 
361,033
  
 
$
20.79
  
 
3.60 years
 
$
7
  

  98 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(13.) SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION (Continued) 
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was $13 thousand of unrecognized compensation
expense related to unvested stock options, all of which is expected to be recognized during 2012.  The aggregate intrinsic
value (the amount by which the market price of the stock on the date of exercise exceeded the market price of the stock on the date of grant) of option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $31 thousand, $59
thousand, and $1 thousand, respectively. The total cash received as a result of option exercises under stock compensation plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $91 thousand, $216 thousand, and $14 thousand,
respectively. The tax benefits realized in connection with these stock option exercises were not significant.  The following is a summary of
restricted stock award activity for the year ended December 31, 2011:   





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Number of
 
  
WeightedAverageMarketPrice at
 

 
    
Shares
 
  
Grant Date
 

 Outstanding at beginning of year
    
 
150,796
  
  
$
12.76
  

 Granted
    
 
53,070
  
  
 
18.88
  

 Vested
    
 
(35,212
) 
  
 
14.38
  

 Forfeited
    
 
(2,000
) 
  
 
15.44
  


    
  
  
 
  




 Outstanding at end of year
    
 
166,654
  
  
$
14.34
  


    
  
  
 
  



 As of December 31, 2011, there was $804 thousand of unrecognized compensation expense related to
unvested restricted stock awards that is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.48 years. 
(14.) INCOME TAXES 
Total income tax expense was allocated as follows for the years ended December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Income tax expense
    
$
11,415
  
    
$
9,352
  
  
$
6,140
  

 Shareholder’s equity
    
 
3,718
  
    
 
(763
) 
  
 
197
  
 The income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31 consisted of the following (in thousands):
  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Current tax expense (benefit):
    



    



  




 Federal
    
$
3,747
  
    
$
5,781
  
  
$
(1,355
) 

 State
    
 
1,158
  
    
 
1,103
  
  
 
25
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total current tax expense (benefit)
    
 
4,905
  
    
 
6,884
  
  
 
(1,330
) 


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Deferred tax expense (benefit):
    



    



  




 Federal
    
 
5,584
  
    
 
2,852
  
  
 
6,189
  

 State
    
 
926
  
    
 
(384
) 
  
 
1,281
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax expense
    
 
6,510
  
    
 
2,468
  
  
 
7,470
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total income tax expense
    
$
11,415
  
    
$
9,352
  
  
$
6,140
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  99 


FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(14.) INCOME TAXES (Continued)   
Income tax expense differed from the statutory federal income tax rate for the years ended
December 31 as follows:   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Statutory federal tax rate
    
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
34.0
% 

 Increase (decrease) resulting from:
    



 



 




 Tax exempt interest income
    
 
(4.3
) 
 
 
(4.2
) 
 
 
(8.6
) 

 Non-taxable earnings on company owned life insurance
    
 
(1.5
) 
 
 
(1.3
) 
 
 
(1.8
) 

 State taxes, net of federal tax benefit
    
 
4.0
  
 
 
1.5
  
 
 
4.2
  

 Nondeductible expenses
    
 
0.4
  
 
 
0.6
  
 
 
1.0
  

 Disallowed interest expense
    
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.2
  
 
 
0.5
  

 Other, net
    
 
(0.4
) 
 
 
(1.3
) 
 
 
0.5
  


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
    
 
33.4
% 
 
 
30.5
% 
 
 
29.8
% 


    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company’s net deferred tax asset is included in other assets in the Consolidated Statements of
Condition. The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows at December 31 (in thousands): 
 





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 

 Deferred tax assets:
    



    




 Other than temporary impairment of investment securities
    
$
11,326
  
    
$
15,418
  

 Allowance for loan losses
    
 
9,106
  
    
 
8,108
  

 Share-based compensation
    
 
1,437
  
    
 
1,250
  

 Interest on non-accruing loans
    
 
716
  
    
 
781
  

 Accrued pension costs
    
 
538
  
    
 
—  
  

 Tax attribute carryforward benefits
    
 
463
  
    
 
2,033
  

 Core deposit intangible
    
 
79
  
    
 
158
  

 Other
    
 
1,172
  
    
 
665
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Gross deferred tax assets
    
 
24,837
  
    
 
28,413
  

 Deferred tax liabilities:
    



    




 Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale
    
 
8,903
  
    
 
1,231
  

 Depreciation and amortization
    
 
1,741
  
    
 
1,489
  

 Deferred loan origination costs
    
 
930
  
    
 
2,263
  

 Loan servicing assets
    
 
781
  
    
 
581
  

 Prepaid pension costs
    
 
—  
  
    
 
139
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Gross deferred tax liabilities
    
 
12,355
  
    
 
5,703
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax asset
    
$
12,482
  
    
$
22,710
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 The Company recognizes deferred income taxes for the estimated future tax effects of differences between
the tax and financial statement bases of assets and liabilities considering enacted tax laws. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in other assets in the Company’s consolidated statements of
condition. The Company also assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be realizable based on, among other considerations, future taxable income and establishes, if necessary, a valuation allowance for those deferred tax assets determined
to not likely be realizable. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance is recognized if, based on the weight of available evidence (both positive and negative), it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not
be realized. The future realization of deferred tax benefits depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income within the carry-back and carry-forward periods. Management’s judgment is required in determining the appropriate recognition
of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including projections of future taxable income.  Based upon the Company’s
historical and projected future levels of pre-tax and taxable income, the scheduled reversals of taxable temporary differences to offset future deductible amounts, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies, management believes it is more
likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. As such, no valuation allowance has been recorded as of December 31, 2011 or 2010.  The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to federal and New York State (“NYS”) income taxes. The federal income tax years currently open for audits are 2007 through 2011. The NYS income tax
years currently open for audits are 2009 through 2011. 
  100



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(14.) INCOME TAXES (Continued)   
At December 31, 2011, the Company had no federal or NYS net operating loss
carryforwards. The Company has federal tax credits of approximately $463 thousand which have an unlimited carryforward period. 
The Company’s unrecognized tax benefits and changes in unrecognized tax benefits were not significant as of or for the years ended
December 31, 2011 and 2010. There were no interest or penalties recorded in the income statement in income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, there were no amounts accrued for interest or
penalties related to uncertain tax positions. 
(15.) EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
The following table presents a reconciliation of the earnings and shares used in calculating basic and diluted EPS for
each of the years ended December 31 (in thousands, except per share amounts).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Net income available to common shareholders
    
$
19,617
  
  
$
17,562
  
  
$
10,744
  

 Less: Earnings allocated to participating securities
    
 
38
  
  
 
105
  
  
 
87
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income available to common shareholders for EPS
    
$
19,579
  
  
$
17,457
  
  
$
10,657
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 






 Weighted average common shares outstanding:
    



  



  




 Total shares issued
    
 
13,599
  
  
 
11,348
  
  
 
11,348
  

 Unvested restricted stock awards
    
 
(166
) 
  
 
(154
) 
  
 
(92
) 

 Treasury shares
    
 
(366
) 
  
 
(427
) 
  
 
(526
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total basic weighted average common shares outstanding
    
 
13,067
  
  
 
10,767
  
  
 
10,730
  






 Incremental shares from assumed:
    



  



  




 Exercise of stock options
    
 
3
  
  
 
6
  
  
 
—  
  

 Vesting of restricted stock awards
    
 
65
  
  
 
27
  
  
 
39
  

 Exercise of warrant
    
 
22
  
  
 
45
  
  
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total diluted weighted average common shares outstanding
    
 
13,157
  
  
 
10,845
  
  
 
10,769
  






 Basic earnings per common share
    
$
1.50
  
  
$
1.62
  
  
$
0.99
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per common share
    
$
1.49
  
  
$
1.61
  
  
$
0.99
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For each of the periods presented, average shares subject to the following instruments were excluded from
the computation of diluted EPS because the effect would be antidilutive:   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 Stock options
    
 
339
  
    
 
353
  
    
 
459
  

 Restricted stock awards
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  

 Warrant
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
378
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
 
339
  
    
 
353
  
    
 
837
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  101



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(16.) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
Defined Benefit Pension Plan  The Company participates in The New York State Bankers Retirement System (the “Plan”), a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees, subject to the limitations related to
the plan closure effective December 31, 2006. The benefits are based on years of service and the employee’s highest average compensation during five consecutive years of employment. The defined benefit plan was closed to new participants
effective December 31, 2006. Only employees hired on or before December 31, 2006 and who met participation requirements on or before January 1, 2008 are eligible to receive benefits. 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the plan’s benefit obligations, fair value of assets and a statement
of the funded status as of and for the year ended December 31 (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Change in projected benefit obligation:
    



  




 Projected benefit obligation at beginning of period
    
$
38,381
  
  
$
33,441
  

 Service cost
    
 
1,756
  
  
 
1,633
  

 Interest cost
    
 
2,027
  
  
 
1,933
  

 Actuarial loss
    
 
7,939
  
  
 
2,969
  

 Benefits paid and plan expenses
    
 
(1,800
) 
  
 
(1,595
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Projected benefit obligation at end of period
    
 
48,303
  
  
 
38,381
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets:
    



  




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period
    
 
38,731
  
  
 
33,203
  

 Actual return on plan assets
    
 
12
  
  
 
2,823
  

 Employer contributions
    
 
10,000
  
  
 
4,300
  

 Benefits paid and plan expenses
    
 
(1,800
) 
  
 
(1,595
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of period
    
 
46,943
  
  
 
38,731
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Funded (unfunded) status at end of period
    
$
(1,360
) 
  
$
350
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The accumulated benefit obligation was $43.3 million and $34.3 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 The Company’s funding policy is to contribute, at a minimum, an actuarially determined amount that will satisfy the
minimum funding requirements determined under the appropriate sections of Internal Revenue Code. The Company satisfied the minimum required contribution to its pension plan of $1.7 million for the 2012 fiscal year by contributing $10.0 million prior
to December 31, 2011.  Estimated benefit payments under the pension plan over the next ten years at December 31,
2011 are as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,


 2012
    
$
 1,553
  

 2013
    
 
1,623
  

 2014
    
 
1,733
  

 2015
    
 
1,876
  

 2016
    
 
2,101
  

 2017 - 2021
    
 
12,782
  
 Net periodic pension cost consists of the following components for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
  





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Service cost
    
$
1,756
  
  
$
1,633
  
  
$
1,689
  

 Interest cost on projected benefit obligation
    
 
2,027
  
  
 
1,933
  
  
 
1,826
  

 Expected return on plan assets
    
 
(2,653
) 
  
 
(2,444
) 
  
 
(1,848
) 

 Amortization of unrecognized loss
    
 
608
  
  
 
458
  
  
 
728
  

 Amortization of unrecognized prior service cost
    
 
19
  
  
 
11
  
  
 
11
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net periodic pension cost
    
$
1,757
  
  
$
1,591
  
  
$
2,406
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  102



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(16.) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (Continued) 
 
The actuarial assumptions used to determine the net periodic pension cost were as follows: 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted average discount rate
    
 
5.38
% 
 
 
5.89
% 
 
 
6.03
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
    
 
3.00
% 
 
 
3.50
% 
 
 
3.50
% 

 Expected long-term rate of return
    
 
7.00
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 
 
7.50
% 
 The actuarial assumptions used to determine the projected benefit obligation were as follows: 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Weighted average discount rate
    
 
4.27
% 
 
 
5.38
% 
 
 
5.89
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
    
 
3.00
% 
 
 
3.00
% 
 
 
3.50
% 
 The weighted average discount rate was based upon the projected benefit cash flows and the market yields
of high grade corporate bonds that are available to pay such cash flows.  The weighted average expected long term rate of
return is estimated based on current trends in the Plan’s assets as well as projected future rates of return on those assets and reasonable actuarial assumptions based on the guidance provided by Actuarial Standard of Practice No. 27,
“Selection of Economic Assumptions for Measuring Pension Obligations”, for long term inflation, and the real and nominal rate of investment return for a specific mix of asset classes. The following assumptions were used in determining the
long term rate of return:   









 Equity securities
  
Dividend discount model, the smoothed earnings yield model and the equity risk premium model




 Fixed income securities
  
Current yield-to-maturity and forecasts of future yields




 Other financial instruments
  
Comparison of the specific investment’s risk to that of fixed income and equity instruments and using judgment
 The long term rate of return considers historical returns. Adjustments were made to historical
returns in order to reflect expectations of future returns. These adjustments were due to factor forecasts by economists and long-term U.S. Treasury yields to forecast long-term inflation. In addition forecasts by economists and others for long-term
GDP growth were factored into the development of assumptions for earnings growth and per capital income. The Plan’s overall investment strategy is to achieve a mix of approximately 97% of investments for long-term growth and 3% for near-term
benefit payments with a wide diversification of asset types, fund strategies, and fund managers. The target allocations for Plan assets are shown in the table below. Cash equivalents consist primarily of short term investment funds. Equity
securities primarily include investments in common stock and depository receipts. Fixed income securities include corporate bonds, government issues and mortgage backed securities. Other financial instruments primarily include rights and warrants.

  103



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(16.) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (Continued) 
 
Effective September 2011, the Plan revised its investment guidelines. The Plan currently
prohibits its investment managers from purchasing any security greater than 5% of the portfolio at the time of purchase or greater than 8% at market value in any one issuer. In addition, the following are prohibited: 
 









 Equity securities
  
 Short sales Unregistered
securities Margin purchases




 Fixed income securities
  
 Mortgage backed derivatives that have an inverse floating rate coupon or that are interest only securities
  Any ABS that is not issued by the U.S. Government or its agencies or its
instrumentalities   Generally securities of less than Baa2/BBB quality may
not be purchased   Securities of less than A-quality may not in the
aggregate exceed 10% of the investment manager’s portfolio




 Other financial instruments
  
Unhedged currency exposure in countries not defined as “high income economies” by the World Bank
 Prior to September 2011 investments in emerging countries as defined by the Morgan Stanley Emerging
Markets Index and structured notes were prohibited.  All other investments not prohibited by the Plan are permitted. At
December 31, 2011, the Plan holds certain investments which are no longer deemed acceptable to acquire. These positions will be liquidated when the investment managers deem that such liquidation is in the best interest of the Plan. 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
 2012 Target
 
 
Percentage of Plan Assetsat December 31,
 
 
WeightedAverageExpectedLong-term
 

 
    
Allocation
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
Rate of Return
 

 Asset category:
    



 



 



 




 Cash equivalents
    
 
0 – 20
% 
 
 
10.6
% 
 
 
11.2
% 
 
 
0.39
% 

 Equity securities
    
 
40 – 60
  
 
 
47.9
  
 
 
48.2
  
 
 
4.62
  

 Fixed income securities
    
 
40 – 60
  
 
 
41.5
  
 
 
40.6
  
 
 
1.85
  

 Other financial instruments
    
 
0 – 5
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

  104



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(16.) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (Continued) 
 
Assets are segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value
hierarchy established by ASC Topic 820 utilized to measure fair value (see Note 17—Fair Value Measurements). There were no assets classified as Level 3 assets during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. The major categories of Plan
assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis are presented in the following table (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Level 1
 
    
Level 2
 
    
Level 3
 
    
Total
 

 
    
Inputs
 
    
Inputs
 
    
Inputs
 
    
Fair Value
 

 December 31, 2011:
    



    



    



    




 Cash equivalents:
    



    



    



    




 Foreign currencies
    
$
81
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
81
  

 Short term investment funds
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,901
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,901
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total cash equivalents
    
 
81
  
    
 
4,901
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,982
  

 Equity securities:
    



    



    



    




 U.S. Large Cap
    
 
13,993
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
13,993
  

 U.S. Mid Cap
    
 
1,903
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,903
  

 U.S. Small Cap
    
 
44
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
44
  

 International
    
 
6,553
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
6,553
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total equity securities
    
 
22,493
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
22,493
  

 Fixed income securities:
    



    



    



    




 Corporate bonds:
    



    



    



    




 Rated single A or higher by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,949
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,949
  

 Rated below single A by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,281
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,281
  

 Government issues
    
 
—  
  
    
 
10,651
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
10,651
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations:
    



    



    



    




 Rated single A or higher by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,233
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,233
  

 Rated below single A by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
354
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
354
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total fixed income securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
19,468
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
19,468
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total Plan investments
    
$
22,574
  
    
$
24,369
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
46,943
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 







 December 31, 2010:
    



    



    



    




 Cash equivalents:
    



    



    



    




 Foreign currencies
    
$
84
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
84
  

 Short term investment funds
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,266
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,266
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total cash equivalents
    
 
84
  
    
 
4,266
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
4,350
  

 Equity securities:
    



    



    



    




 U.S. Large Cap
    
 
10,800
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
10,800
  

 U.S. Mid Cap
    
 
1,103
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,103
  

 U.S. Small Cap
    
 
82
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
82
  

 International
    
 
6,698
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
6,698
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total equity securities
    
 
18,683
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
18,683
  

 Fixed income securities:
    



    



    



    




 Corporate bonds:
    



    



    



    




 Rated single A or higher by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,113
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,113
  

 Rated below single A by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,483
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,483
  

 Government issues
    
 
—  
  
    
 
11,259
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
11,259
  

 Collateralized mortgage obligations:
    



    



    



    




 Rated single A or higher by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
582
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
582
  

 Rated below single A by S&P
    
 
—  
  
    
 
261
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
261
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total fixed income securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
15,698
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
15,698
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total Plan investments
    
$
18,767
  
    
$
19,964
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
38,731
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  105



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(16.) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (Continued) 
 
At December 31, 2011 the portfolio was managed by two investment firms, with
control of the portfolio split approximately 46% and 52% under the control of the investment managers with the remaining 2% under the direct control of the Plan. A portfolio concentration in the State Street Bank & Trust Co. Short Term
Investment Fund of 10% and 11% existed at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Postretirement Benefit Plan 
An entity acquired by the Company provided health and dental care benefits to retired employees who met specified age and service
requirements through a postretirement health and dental care plan in which both the acquired entity and the retirees shared the cost. The plan provided for substantially the same medical insurance coverage as for active employees until their death
and was integrated with Medicare for those retirees aged 65 or older. In 2001, the plan’s eligibility requirements were amended to curtail eligible benefit payments to only retired employees and active participants who were fully vested under
the Plan. In 2003, retirees under age 65 began contributing to health coverage at the same cost-sharing level as that of active employees. The retirees aged 65 or older were offered new Medicare supplemental plans as alternatives to the plan
historically offered. The cost sharing of medical coverage was standardized throughout the group of retirees aged 65 or older. In addition, to be consistent with the administration of the Company’s dental plan for active employees, all retirees
who continued dental coverage began paying the full monthly premium. The accrued liability included in other liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition related to this plan amounted to $122 thousand and $162 thousand as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The postretirement expense for the plan that was included in salaries and employee benefits in the consolidated statements of income was not significant for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010
and 2009. The plan is not funded.  The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the defined benefit plan
and postretirement benefit plan, on a pre-tax basis as of December 31 are summarized below (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Defined benefit plan:
    



  




 Net actuarial loss
    
$
(21,160
) 
  
$
(11,188
) 

 Prior service cost
    
 
(113
) 
  
 
(132
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
(21,273
) 
  
 
(11,320
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Postretirement benefit plan:
    



  




 Net actuarial loss
    
 
(210
) 
  
 
(252
) 

 Prior service credit
    
 
575
  
  
 
643
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
365
  
  
 
391
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total recognized in accumulated other comprehensive loss
    
$
(20,908
) 
  
$
(10,929
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) on a
pre-tax basis during the years ended December 31 are as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,


  
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Defined benefit plan:
    



  




 Net actuarial loss
    
$
(10,580
) 
  
$
(2,590
) 

 Amortization of net loss
    
 
608
  
  
 
458
  

 Amortization of prior service cost
    
 
19
  
  
 
11
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
(9,953
) 
  
 
(2,121
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Postretirement benefit plan:
    



  




 Net actuarial gain (loss)
    
 
42
  
  
 
(4
) 

 Amortization of prior service credit
    
 
(68
) 
  
 
(67
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


    
 
(26
) 
  
 
(71
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
    
$
(9,979
) 
  
$
(2,192
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 For the year ending December 31, 2012, the estimated net loss and prior service cost for the plan
that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost is $1.4 million and $20 thousand, respectively. 
  106



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(16.) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (Continued) 
 
Defined Contribution Plan 
Employees that meet certain age and service requirements are eligible to participate in the Company sponsored 401(k) plan. Under the
plan, participants may make contributions, in the form of salary deferrals, up to the maximum Internal Revenue Code limit. The Company matches a participant’s contributions up to 4.5% of compensation, calculated as 100% of the first 3% of
compensation and 50% of the next 3% of compensation deferred by the participant. The Company may also make additional discretionary matching contributions, although no such additional discretionary contributions were made in 2011, 2010 or 2009. The
expense included in salaries and employee benefits in the consolidated statements of income for this plan amounted to $1.0 million, $936 thousand and $914 thousand in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans  The Company has a non-qualified Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (“SERP”) covering three former executives. At December 31, 2011, there was a $1.0 million unfunded pension liability
related to the SERP. SERP expense was $67 thousand, $262 thousand, and $648 thousand for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   


(17.)
 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
Determination of Fair Value – Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring and Nonrecurring Basis 
Valuation Hierarchy 
The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to sell that asset or paid to transfer that liability in an
orderly transaction occurring in the principal market (or most advantageous market in the absence of a principal market) for such asset or liability. ASC Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures,” establishes a fair value
hierarchy for valuation inputs that gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs. The fair value hierarchy is as follows: 
 


 
•
 
 Level 1—Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to
access at the measurement date.   


 
•
 
 Level 2—Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or
indirectly. These might include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for
the asset or liability (such as interest rates, volatilities, prepayment speeds, credit risks, etc.) or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by market data by correlation or other means. 
 


 
•
 
 Level 3—Unobservable inputs for determining the fair values of assets or liabilities that reflect an entity’s own assumptions about
the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the assets or liabilities.  In general, fair
value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. If such quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that primarily use, as inputs, observable market-based parameters. Valuation adjustments
may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. These adjustments may include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality and the company’s creditworthiness, among other things, as well as unobservable
parameters. Any such valuation adjustments are applied consistently over time. The Company’s valuation methodologies may produce a fair value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.
While management believes the Company’s valuation methodologies are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could
result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Furthermore, the reported fair value amounts have not been comprehensively revalued since the presentation dates, and therefore, estimates of fair value after the balance sheet date
may differ significantly from the amounts presented herein. A more detailed description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the
valuation hierarchy, is set forth below. 
  107



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(17.) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (Continued) 
 
Investment securities available for sale: Pooled trust preferred
securities are reported at fair value utilizing Level 3 inputs. Fair values for these securities are determined through the use of internal valuation methodologies appropriate for the specific asset, which may include the use of a discounted
expected cash flow analysis or the use of broker quotes. Other securities classified as available for sale are reported at fair value utilizing Level 2 inputs. For these securities, the Company obtains fair value measurements from an
independent pricing service. The fair value measurements consider observable data that may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading levels, trade execution data, market consensus prepayment
speeds, credit information and the bond’s terms and conditions, among other things.  Loans held for
sale: The fair value of loans held for sale is determined using quoted secondary market prices and investor commitments. Loans held for sale are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. 
Collateral dependent impaired loans: The fair value of impaired loans with specific allocations of the allowance
for loan losses is generally based on recent real estate appraisals. These appraisals may utilize a single valuation approach or a combination of approaches including comparable sales and the income approach. Adjustments are routinely made in the
appraisal process by the appraisers to adjust for differences between the comparable sales and income data available. Such adjustments are typically significant and result in a Level 3 classification of the inputs for determining fair value.
 Other real estate owned (Foreclosed assets): Nonrecurring adjustments to certain commercial and
residential real estate properties classified as other real estate owned are measured at the lower of carrying amount or fair value, less costs to sell. Fair values are generally based on third party appraisals of the property, resulting in a Level
3 classification. In cases where the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized.  Mortgage servicing rights: Mortgage servicing rights do not trade in an active market with readily observable market data. As a result, the Company estimates the fair value of mortgage servicing
rights by using a discounted cash flow model to calculate the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The assumptions used in the discounted cash flow model are those that we believe market participants would use in estimating future
net servicing income, including estimates of loan prepayment rates, servicing costs, ancillary income, impound account balances, and discount rates. Significant assumptions in the valuation of mortgage servicing rights include changes in interest
rates, estimated loan repayment rates, and the timing of cash flows, among other factors. Mortgage servicing rights are classified as Level 3 measurements due to the use of significant unobservable inputs, as well as significant management judgment
and estimation.  Assets Measured at Fair Value  The following table presents for each of the fair-value hierarchy levels the Company’s assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 (in
thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Level 1
 
    
Level 2
 
    
Level 3
 
    
Total
 

 
    
Inputs
 
    
Inputs
 
    
Inputs
 
    
Fair Value
 

 Measured on a recurring basis:
    



    



    



    




 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
    
$
—  
  
    
$
97,712
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
97,712
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
—  
  
    
 
124,424
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
124,424
  

 Mortgage-backed securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
403,685
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
403,685
  

 Asset-backed securities:
    



    



    



    




 Trust preferred securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,636
  
    
 
1,636
  

 Other
    
 
—  
  
    
 
61
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
61
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
—  
  
    
$
625,882
  
    
$
1,636
  
    
$
627,518
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Measured on a nonrecurring basis:
    



    



    



    




 Loans:
    



    



    



    




 Loans held for sale
    
$
—  
  
    
$
2,410
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
2,410
  

 Collateral dependent impaired loans
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,160
  
    
 
2,160
  

 Other assets:
    



    



    



    




 Mortgage servicing rights
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,973
  
    
 
1,973
  

 Other real estate owned
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
475
  
    
 
475
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
—  
  
    
$
2,410
  
    
$
4,608
  
    
$
7,018
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  108



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(17.) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (Continued) 
 
The following table presents for each of the fair-value hierarchy levels the
Company’s assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands).   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
Level 1
 
    
Level 2
 
    
Level 3
 
    
Total
 

 
    
Inputs
 
    
Inputs
 
    
Inputs
 
    
Fair Value
 

 Measured on a recurring basis:
    



    



    



    




 Securities available for sale:
    



    



    



    




 U.S. Government agencies and government sponsored enterprises
    
$
—  
  
    
$
140,784
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
140,784
  

 State and political subdivisions
    
 
—  
  
    
 
105,666
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
105,666
  

 Mortgage-backed securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
419,281
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
419,281
  

 Asset-backed securities:
    



    



    



    




 Trust preferred securities
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
572
  
    
 
572
  

 Other
    
 
—  
  
    
 
65
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
65
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
—  
  
    
$
665,796
  
    
$
572
  
    
$
666,368
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Measured on a nonrecurring basis:
    



    



    



    




 Loans:
    



    



    



    




 Loans held for sale
    
$
—  
  
    
$
3,138
  
    
$
—  
  
    
$
3,138
  

 Collateral dependent impaired loans
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
2,457
  
    
 
2,457
  

 Other assets:
    



    



    



    




 Mortgage servicing rights
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
1,467
  
    
 
1,467
  

 Other real estate owned
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
741
  
    
 
741
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 


    
$
—  
  
    
$
3,138
  
    
$
4,665
  
    
$
7,803
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
 There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis during the years
ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Changes in Level 3 Fair Value Measurements 
The reconciliation for all assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the
years ended December 31 is as follows (in thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,


 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Securities available for sale (Level 3), beginning of year
    
$
572
  
  
$
1,015
  

 Transfers into Level 3
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Sales
    
 
(2,478
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Principal paydowns and other
    
 
(53
) 
  
 
263
  

 Total gains (losses) realized/unrealized:
    



  




 Included in earnings
    
 
2,263
  
  
 
(526
) 

 Included in other comprehensive income
    
 
1,332
  
  
 
(180
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Securities available for sale (Level 3), end of year
    
$
1,636
  
  
$
572
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  109



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(17.) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (Continued) 
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
The Fair Value of Financial Instruments Subsection of the ASC requires disclosure of the fair value of financial assets and financial
liabilities, including those financial assets and financial liabilities that are not measured and reported at fair value on a recurring basis or non-recurring basis.  The following discussion describes the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value. The techniques utilized in estimating the fair values of financial
instruments are reliant on the assumptions used, including discount rates and estimates of the amount and timing of future cash flows. Care should be exercised in deriving conclusions about our business, its value or financial position based on the
fair value information of financial instruments presented below.  Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time,
based on available market information and judgments about the financial instrument, including estimates of timing, amount of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer. Such estimates do not consider the tax impact of the
realization of unrealized gains or losses. In some cases, the fair value estimates cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent markets. In addition, the disclosed fair value may not be realized in the immediate settlement of the financial
instrument.  The estimated fair value approximates carrying value for cash and cash equivalents, FHLB and FRB stock, company
owned life insurance, accrued interest receivable, short-term borrowings and accrued interest payable. Fair value estimates for other financial instruments are discussed below. 
Loans held for sale. The fair value is based on estimates, quoted market prices and investor commitments.
 Loans. For variable rate loans that re-price frequently, fair value approximates carrying
amount. The fair value for fixed rate loans is estimated through discounted cash flow analysis using interest rates currently being offered on loans with similar terms and credit quality. For criticized and classified loans, fair value is estimated
by discounting expected cash flows at a rate commensurate with the risk associated with the estimated cash flows, or estimates of fair value discounts based on observable market information. 
Deposits. The fair values for demand accounts, money market and savings deposits are equal to their
carrying amounts. The fair values of certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flow approach that applies prevailing market interest rates for similar maturity instruments. 
Long-term borrowings (excluding junior subordinated debentures). The fair value for long-term
borrowings is estimated using a discounted cash flow approach that applies prevailing market interest rates for similar maturity instruments.  Junior subordinated debentures. The fair value for the junior subordinated debentures is estimated using a discounted cash flow approach that applies prevailing market interest rates for
similar maturity instruments.  The fair value of a financial instrument is the current amount that would be exchanged between
willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation. Fair value is best determined based upon quoted market prices. However, in many instances, there are no quoted market prices for the Company’s various financial instruments. In cases where
quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future
cash flows. Accordingly, the fair value estimates may not be realized in an immediate settlement of the instrument. The accounting guidelines exclude certain financial instruments and all non-financial instruments from its disclosure requirements.
Accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 may not necessarily represent the underlying fair value of the Company. 
  110



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(17.) FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS (Continued) 
 
The carrying values and fair values of financial instruments as of December 31 are as follows (in
thousands):   





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


 
    
December 31, 2011
 
    
December 31, 2010
 

 
    
 
 
    
Estimated
 
    
 
 
    
Estimated
 

 
    
Carrying
 
    
Fair
 
    
Carrying
 
    
Fair
 

 
    
Amount
 
    
Value
 
    
Amount
 
    
Value
 

 Financial assets:
    



    



    



    




 Cash and cash equivalents
    
$
57,583
  
    
$
57,583
  
    
$
39,058
  
    
$
39,058
  

 Securities available for sale
    
 
627,518
  
    
 
627,518
  
    
 
666,368
  
    
 
666,368
  

 Securities held to maturity
    
 
23,297
  
    
 
23,964
  
    
 
28,162
  
    
 
28,849
  

 Loans held for sale
    
 
2,410
  
    
 
2,442
  
    
 
3,138
  
    
 
3,138
  

 Loans
    
 
1,461,516
  
    
 
1,493,159
  
    
 
1,325,524
  
    
 
1,388,787
  

 Accrued interest receivable
    
 
7,655
  
    
 
7,655
  
    
 
7,613
  
    
 
7,613
  

 FHLB and FRB stock
    
 
10,674
  
    
 
10,674
  
    
 
6,353
  
    
 
6,353
  







 Financial liabilities:
    



    



    



    




 Demand, savings and money market deposits
    
 
1,230,923
  
    
 
1,230,923
  
    
 
1,143,136
  
    
 
1,143,136
  

 Certificate of deposit
    
 
700,676
  
    
 
702,720
  
    
 
739,754
  
    
 
740,440
  

 Short-term borrowings
    
 
150,698
  
    
 
150,698
  
    
 
77,110
  
    
 
77,110
  

 Long-term borrowings (excluding junior subordinated debentures)
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
10,065
  
    
 
10,244
  

 Junior subordinated debentures
    
 
—  
  
    
 
—  
  
    
 
16,702
  
    
 
10,564
  

 Accrued interest payable
    
 
5,207
  
    
 
5,207
  
    
 
7,620
  
    
 
7,620
  

(18.) PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
Condensed financial statements pertaining only to the Parent are presented below (in thousands). 
Condensed Statements of Condition   





September 30,



September 30,


  
    
December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 

 Assets:
    



    




 Cash and due from subsidiary
    
$
11,621
  
    
$
23,894
  

 Investment in and receivables due from subsidiary
    
 
223,577
  
    
 
202,754
  

 Other assets
    
 
4,337
  
    
 
4,623
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total assets
    
$
239,535
  
    
$
231,271
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Liabilities and shareholders’ equity:
    



    




 Junior subordinated debentures
    
$
—  
  
    
$
16,702
  

 Other liabilities
    
 
2,341
  
    
 
2,425
  

 Shareholders’ equity
    
 
237,194
  
    
 
212,144
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity
    
$
239,535
  
    
$
231,271
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 

  111



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(18.) PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (Continued) 
 
Condensed Statements of Income 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


  
    
Years ended December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
    
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Dividends from subsidiary and associated companies
    
$
9,233
  
    
$
23,151
  
  
$
5,051
  

 Management and service fees from subsidiary
    
 
1,161
  
    
 
1,163
  
  
 
603
  

 Other income (loss)
    
 
78
  
    
 
(134
) 
  
 
182
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total income
    
 
10,472
  
    
 
24,180
  
  
 
5,836
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating expenses
    
 
3,787
  
    
 
4,005
  
  
 
4,436
  

 Loss on extinguishment of debt
    
 
1,083
  
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total expenses
    
 
4,870
  
    
 
4,005
  
  
 
4,436
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income tax benefit and equity in undistributed earnings(excess distributions) of subsidiary
    
 
5,602
  
    
 
20,175
  
  
 
1,400
  

 Income tax benefit
    
 
1,539
  
    
 
1,323
  
  
 
1,286
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before equity in undistributed earnings (excess distributions) of subsidiary
    
 
7,141
  
    
 
21,498
  
  
 
2,686
  

 Equity in undistributed earnings (excess distributions) of subsidiary
    
 
15,658
  
    
 
(211
) 
  
 
11,755
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
    
$
22,799
  
    
$
21,287
  
  
$
14,441
  


    
  
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Condensed Statements of Cash Flows 
 





September 30,



September 30,



September 30,


  
    
Years ended December 31,
 

 
    
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
    



  



  




 Net income
    
$
22,799
  
  
$
21,287
  
  
$
14,441
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
    



  



  




 Equity in (undistributed earnings) excess distributions of subsidiary
    
 
(15,658
) 
  
 
211
  
  
 
(11,755
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
    
 
116
  
  
 
193
  
  
 
318
  

 Share-based compensation
    
 
1,105
  
  
 
1,031
  
  
 
854
  

 Decrease in other assets
    
 
771
  
  
 
980
  
  
 
797
  

 (Decrease) increase in other liabilities
    
 
(534
) 
  
 
8
  
  
 
(230
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
    
 
8,599
  
  
 
23,710
  
  
 
4,425
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
    



  



  




 Purchase of investment assets, net of disposals
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,323
) 

 Capital investment in subsidiary
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(15,000
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
    
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(16,323
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
    



  



  




 Redemption of junior subordinated debentures
    
 
(16,702
) 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of preferred and common shares, net of issuance costs
    
 
43,127
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(68
) 

 Purchase of preferred and common shares
    
 
(37,764
) 
  
 
(69
) 
  
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock warrant
    
 
(2,080
) 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from stock options exercised
    
 
91
  
  
 
216
  
  
 
15
  

 Dividends paid
    
 
(7,564
) 
  
 
(7,690
) 
  
 
(7,485
) 

 Other
    
 
20
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
    
 
(20,872
) 
  
 
(7,543
) 
  
 
(7,538
) 


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents
    
 
(12,273
) 
  
 
16,167
  
  
 
(19,436
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents as of beginning of year
    
 
23,894
  
  
 
7,727
  
  
 
27,163
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents as of end of the year
    
$
11,621
  
  
$
23,894
  
  
$
7,727
  


    
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  112



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009   
(19.) SUBSEQUENT EVENT (Unaudited) 
On January 19, 2012, Five Star Bank entered into an agreement to acquire four retail banking branches currently
owned by HSBC Bank USA, N.A. and four retail banking branches currently owned by First Niagara Bank, N.A. The deposits associated with these branches total approximately $376 million, while loans total approximately $94 million. The transactions are
subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals, and are expected to close by the end of the third quarter of 2012.   
  113





ITEM 9.
CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
None.   


ITEM 9A.
CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
Effectiveness of Controls and Procedures  As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company’s management, including the Company’s
Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Accounting Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b),
as adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the
Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Disclosure controls and procedures are the controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that
information required to be disclosed in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow
timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent
limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.  Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
Management of Financial Institutions, Inc. (the Company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting. Management assessed the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on criteria established in the Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting is included under Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II of this Form 10-K. 
KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K, and has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm that attests the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting is included under Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II of this Form 10-K.  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  There were no
changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting.   


ITEM 9B.
OTHER INFORMATION  Not
applicable. 
  114



PART III 
 


ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  In response to this Item, the information set forth in the Company’s Proxy Statement for its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the “2012 Proxy Statement”) to be filed within 120 days
following the end of the Company’s fiscal year, under the headings “Election of Directors,” “Business Experience and Qualification of Directors,” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” is
incorporated herein by reference.  The information under the heading “Executive Officers of the Registrant” in Part
I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K is also incorporated herein by reference.  Information concerning the Company’s Audit
Committee and the Audit Committee’s financial expert is set forth under the caption “Corporate Governance Information” in the 2012 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
The Company has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial
officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on the Company’s internet website at www.fiiwarsaw.com under the Corporate
Overview/Governance Documents tabs if the Investor Relations drop down menu. In addition, the Company will provide a copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics to anyone, without charge, upon request addressed to Director of Human Resources at
Financial Institutions, Inc., 220 Liberty Street, Warsaw, NY 14569. The Company intends to disclose any amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to the Company’s principal executive
officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions, and that relates to any element of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, by posting such information on the Company’s
website.   


ITEM  11.
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
In response to this Item, the information set forth in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the heading “Elements of Executive
Compensation” is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 12.
SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
In response to this Item, the information set forth in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the heading “Beneficial Ownership of Common
Stock” is incorporated herein by reference. The information under the heading “Equity Compensation Plan Information” in Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K is also incorporated herein by reference. 
 


ITEM  13.
CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  In response to this Item, the information set forth in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the headings “Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions” and “Corporate Governance
Information” is incorporated herein by reference.   


ITEM 14.
PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  In response to this Item, the information set forth in the 2012 Proxy Statement under the headings “Audit Committee Report” and “Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” is
incorporated herein by reference. 
  115



PART IV 
 


ITEM 15.
EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES   


 
(a)
 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  Reference is made to the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements of Financial Institutions, Inc. and Subsidiaries under Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II of
this Form 10-K.   


 
(b)
 EXHIBITS  The following is a list of all exhibits filed or incorporated by reference as part of this Report.   








 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description
  
 Location





3.1
  
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, dated March 12, 2009





3.2
  
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, dated March 12, 2009





4.1
  
Warrant to Purchase Common Stock, dated December 23, 2008 issued by the Registrant to the United States Department of the Treasury
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the Form 8-K, dated December 24, 2008





10.1
  
1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the S-1 Registration Statement





10.2
  
Amendment Number One to the FII 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1of the Form 8-K, dated July 28, 2006





10.3
  
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement Pursuant to the FII 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K, dated July 28, 2006





10.4
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Pursuant to the FII 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of the Form 8-K, dated July 28, 2006





10.5
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Pursuant to the FII 1999 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K, dated January 23, 2008





10.6
  
1999 Directors Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the S-1 Registration Statement





10.7
  
Amendment to the 1999 Director Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, dated March 12, 2009





10.8
  
2009 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009, dated August 5, 2009





10.9
  
2009 Directors’ Stock Incentive Plan
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2009, dated August 5, 2009





10.10
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Pursuant to the FII 2009 Management Stock Incentive Plan (Special, one-time Award)
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K, dated January 19, 2010





10.11
  
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement Pursuant to the FII 2009 Management Stock Incentive Plan (LTIP Award)
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K, dated March 1, 2010





10.12
  
Form of “Service Based” Restricted Stock Award Agreement Pursuant to the FII 2009 Management Stock Incentive Plan
  
Filed Herewith

  116











 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description
  
 Location





10.13
  
Form of 2012 Performance Program Master Agreement
  
Filed Herewith





10.14
  
Form of 2012 Performance Program Award Certificate
  
Filed Herewith





10.15
  
Amended Stock Ownership Requirements, dated December 14, 2005
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, dated March 15, 2006





10.16
  
Executive Agreement with Peter G. Humphrey
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K, dated June 30, 2005





10.17
  
Executive Agreement with Martin K. Birmingham
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Form 8-K, dated June 30, 2005





10.18
  
Executive Agreement with John J. Witkowski
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Form 8-K, dated September 14, 2005





10.19
  
Executive Agreement with George D. Hagi
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of the Form 8-K, dated February 2, 2006





10.20
  
Voluntary Retirement Agreement with Ronald A. Miller
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Form 8-K, dated September 26, 2008





10.21
  
Amendment to Voluntary Retirement Agreement with Ronald A. Miller
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K, dated March 3, 2010





10.22
  
Letter Agreement, dated December 23, 2008, including the Securities Purchase Agreement-Standard Terms attached thereto, by and between the Company and the United States Department
of the Treasury
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Form 8-K, dated December 24, 2008





10.23
  
Underwriting Agreement dated March 9, 2011 between Financial Institutions, Inc. and Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., as representative of the underwriters
  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of the Form 8-K, dated March 9, 2011





10.24
  
Assignment, Purchase and Assumption Agreement dated January 19, 2012 between First Niagara Bank, National Association and Five Star Bank
  
Filed Herewith





10.25
  
Purchase and Assumption Agreement dated January 19, 2012 between First Niagara Bank, National Association and Five Star Bank
  
Filed Herewith





11.1
  
Statement of Computation of Per Share Earnings
  
Incorporated by reference to Note 15 of the Registrant’s audited consolidated financial statements under Item 8 filed herewith.





21
  
Subsidiaries of Financial Institutions, Inc.
  
Filed Herewith





23
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
Filed Herewith





31.1
  
Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Principal Executive Officer
  
Filed Herewith





31.2
  
Certification pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 - Principal Financial Officer
  
Filed Herewith





32
  
Certification pursuant to18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
  
Filed Herewith





99.1
  
Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Section 111(b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
  
Filed Herewith





99.2
  
Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Section 111(b)(4) of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act
  
Filed Herewith

  117











 ExhibitNumber
  
 Description
  
 Location





*101.INS
  
XBRL Instance Document
  






*101.SCH
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document
  






*101.CAL
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
  






*101.LAB
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
  






*101.PRE
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
  






*101.DEF
  
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
  

  


*
 Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the information in this exhibit shall not be deemed to be “filed” for purposes of Section 18
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement, prospectus or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, or the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filings. 
  118



SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   











 

 
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS, INC.






 March 9, 2012
 

 
 By:
 
 /s/ Peter G. Humphrey


 

 

 
 Peter G. Humphrey


 

 

 
 President & Chief Executive Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signatures
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/ Peter G. Humphrey
  
Director, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
March 9, 2012

 Peter G. Humphrey
  
(Principal Executive Officer)
 






 /s/ Karl F. Krebs
  
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
March 9, 2012

Karl F. Krebs
  
(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 






 /s/ Karl V. Anderson, Jr.
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

Karl V. Anderson, Jr.
  

 






 /s/ John E. Benjamin
  
Director, Chairman
 
March 9, 2012

John E. Benjamin
  

 






 /s/ Barton P. Dambra
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

Barton P. Dambra
  

 






 /s/ Samuel M. Gullo
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

Samuel M. Gullo
  

 






 /s/ Susan R. Holliday
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

Susan R. Holliday
  

 






 /s/ Erland E. Kailbourne
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

Erland E. Kailbourne
  

 






 /s/ Robert N. Latella
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

Robert N. Latella
  

 






 /s/ James L. Robinson
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

James L. Robinson
  

 






 /s/ James H. Wyckoff
  
Director
 
March 9, 2012

James H. Wyckoff
  

 


  119




