
10-K
1
v244059_10k.htm
10-K






 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM
10-K
 
(Mark One)


x
Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended December
31, 2011
or


¨
Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the transition
period from ____________ to  ____________
 
	Commission File Number 1-10560
 
BENCHMARK
ELECTRONICS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)
 


Texas
74-2211011

(State or other jurisdiction of
(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)
Identification Number)

3000 Technology Drive
Angleton, Texas 77515
(979) 849-6550
(Address, including zip code, and telephone
number, including area code, of principal executive offices)
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section
12(b) of the Act:


Title of each class
Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
New York Stock Exchange, Inc.

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes þ
No ¨
 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ¨
No þ
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes þ No ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted
and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter periods that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files).
Yes þ
No ¨
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment
to this Form 10-K. þ
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions
of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b–2
of the Act.
Large accelerated filer þ
  Accelerated filer ¨   Non-accelerated filer ¨ 
  Smaller Reporting Company ¨
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b–2 of the Act).
Yes ¨
No þ
 
As of June 30, 2011, the number of outstanding
Common Shares was 59,943,294. As of such date, the aggregate market value of the Common Shares held by non-affiliates, based on
the closing price of the Common Shares on the New York Stock Exchange on such date, was approximately $975 million.
 
As of February 24, 2012, there were 57,763,420
Common Shares of Benchmark Electronics, Inc., par value $0.10 per share, outstanding.
Documents Incorporated by Reference:
Portions of the Company’s Proxy Statement
for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Part III, Items 10-14).
 


 
 


 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 



 
 
Page

 
PART I
 

 
 
 

Item  1.
Business.
3

Item  1A.
Risk Factors.
13

Item  1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments
24

Item  2.
Properties
25

Item  3.
Legal Proceedings
26

Item  4.
Mine Safety Disclosures
26

 
 
 

 
PART II
 

 
 
 

Item  5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
26

Item  6.
Selected Financial Data
29

Item  7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
30

Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
42

Item  8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
43

Item  9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
76

Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures
76

Item 9B.
Other Information
78

 
 
 

 
PART III
 

 
 
 

Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
78

Item 11.
Executive Compensation
78

Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters
79

Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
79

Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services
79

 
 
 

 
PART IV
 

 
 
 

Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
80

Signatures
 
85

 

 
 

  
PART I
 
Item 1. Business
 
Background
 
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (Benchmark), formerly named Electronics,
Inc., began operations in 1979 and was incorporated under Texas law in 1981 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Intermedics, Inc.,
a medical implant manufacturer based in Angleton, Texas. In 1986, Intermedics sold 90% of the outstanding common shares of the
Company to Electronic Investors Corp., a corporation formed by Donald E. Nigbor, Steven A. Barton and Cary T. Fu. Mr. Fu is currently
serving as our Chairman of the Board. Mr. Fu retired from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company on December 31,
2011 and will continue to serve as a director, if reelected, through the 2012 calendar year. In 1988, Electronic Investors Corp.
was merged into Benchmark, and in 1990 we completed the initial public offering of our common shares.
 
General
 
We are a worldwide provider of integrated electronic manufacturing
services. We provide our services to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of computers and related products for business enterprises,
medical devices, industrial control equipment (which includes equipment for the aerospace and defense industry), testing and instrumentation
products, and telecommunication equipment. The services that we provide are commonly referred to as electronics manufacturing services
(EMS). We offer our customers comprehensive and integrated design and manufacturing services from initial product design to volume
production including direct order fulfillment and post deployment services. Our manufacturing and assembly operations include printed
circuit boards and subsystem assembly, box build and systems integration, the process of integrating subsystems and, often, downloading
and integrating software, to produce a fully configured product. Our precision technology manufacturing capabilities complement
our proven electronic manufacturing expertise by providing further vertical integration of critical mechanical components. These
capabilities include precision machining, advanced metal joining, and functional testing for multiple industries including medical,
instrumentation, aerospace and semiconductor capital equipment. We also are able to provide specialized engineering services, including
product design, printed circuit board layout, prototyping, and test development. We believe that we have developed strengths in
the manufacturing process for large, complex, high-density printed circuit boards as well as the ability to manufacture high and
low volume products in lower cost regions such as Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania and Thailand.
 
We believe that our global manufacturing presence increases
our ability to be responsive to our customers’ needs by providing accelerated time-to-market and time-to-volume production
of high quality products. These capabilities enable us to build stronger strategic relationships with our customers and to become
a more integral part of their operations. Our customers face challenges in planning, procuring and managing their inventories efficiently
due to fluctuations in customer demand, product design changes, short product life cycles and component price fluctuations. We
employ production management systems to manage their procurement and manufacturing processes in an efficient and cost-effective
manner so that, where possible, components arrive on a just-in-time, as-and-when-needed basis. We are a significant purchaser of
electronic components and other raw materials, and can capitalize on the economies of scale associated with our relationships with
suppliers to negotiate price discounts, obtain components and other raw materials that are in short supply, and return excess components.
Our expertise in supply chain management and our relationships with suppliers across the supply chain enable us to reduce our customers’
cost of goods sold and inventory exposure.
 
We currently operate a total of 40 surface mount production
lines (where electrical components are placed and soldered directly onto printed circuit boards) at our domestic facilities and
93 surface mount production lines at our international facilities. Our worldwide facilities include 1.2 million square feet in
our domestic facilities in Alabama, Arizona, California, Minnesota, New Hampshire, North Dakota and Texas; and 1.9 million square
feet in our international facilities in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Romania, Singapore and Thailand.
 

3
 

 
Our capabilities have continued to grow through acquisitions
and through internal expansion. In January 2011, we acquired facilities and certain other assets to expand our precision technology
capabilities in Penang, Malaysia. In 2009, we added certain precision machining assets and capabilities in Arizona, California
and Mexico through a business acquisition, and we leased a larger facility in Brasov, Romania that expanded our manufacturing capability
in Eastern Europe. In 2008, we completed the construction of a new building in Suzhou, China and increased our China manufacturing
capacity. In January 2007, we acquired Pemstar Inc. (Pemstar), a publicly traded EMS company headquartered in Rochester, Minnesota.
This acquisition expanded our customer base and added depth to our engineering and systems integration capabilities. Additionally,
we expanded our relationships with certain customers during 2007 and added a new facility in Penang, Malaysia. Our global operations
now include 21 facilities in nine countries.
 
We believe our primary competitive advantages are our design,
manufacturing, testing and supply chain management capabilities. We offer our customers flexible manufacturing solutions throughout
the life cycle of their products. These solutions provide accelerated time-to-market, time-to-volume production, and reduced production
costs. As a result of working closely with our customers and responding promptly to their needs, we have become an integral part
of their operations.
 
Our Industry
 
The EMS industry experienced rapid change in growth during
the 1990s as an increasing number of OEMs outsourced their manufacturing requirements. In mid-2001 and again in late 2008, the
industry’s revenue declined as a result of significant cutbacks in its customers’ production requirements, which was
consistent with overall global economic downturns. OEMs have continued to turn to outsourcing in order to reduce product cost,
achieve accelerated time-to-market and time-to-volume production, access advanced design and manufacturing technologies, improve
inventory management and purchasing power, and reduce their capital investment in manufacturing resources. Outsourcing enables
OEMs to concentrate on what they believe to be their core strengths, such as new product definition, marketing and sales. In addition,
the number of industries serviced by EMS providers and these providers’ market penetration in certain industries has increased
in recent years. We believe further growth opportunities exist for EMS providers to penetrate the worldwide electronics markets.
 
Our Strategy
 
Our goal is to be the EMS outsourcing provider of choice to
leading OEMs in the electronics industry that we perceive from time to time to offer the greatest potential for growth. To meet
this goal, we have implemented the following strategies:
 


 
·
Maintain and Develop Close, Long-Term Relationships with Customers. Our core strategy is to maintain and establish long-term relationships with leading OEMs in expanding industries by becoming an integral part of our customers’ manufacturing operations. To accomplish this, we work closely with our customers throughout the design, manufacturing and distribution process, and we offer flexible and responsive services. We rely on our local management teams to respond to frequently changing customer design specifications and production requirements, which develops stronger customer relationships.

 

4
 

 


 
·
Focus on High-End Products in Growth Industries. EMS providers produce products for a wide range of OEMs in different industries, such as consumer electronics, internet-focused businesses and information technology equipment. The product scope ranges from easy to assemble, low-cost high-volume products targeted for the consumer market to complicated state-of-the-art, mission critical electronic hardware targeted for military, medical and other high-end computer use. Similarly, OEMs’ customers range from consumer-oriented companies that compete primarily on price and redesign their products every year to manufacturers of high-end telecommunications equipment and computer and related products for business enterprises that compete on technology and quality. We currently offer state-of-the-art products for industry leaders who require specialized engineering design and production services, as well as high volume manufacturing capabilities to our customer base. Our ability to offer both of these types of services enables us to expand our business relationships.

 
 
 

 
·
Deliver Complete High and Low Volume Manufacturing Solutions Globally. We believe OEMs are increasingly requiring a wide range of specialized engineering and manufacturing services from EMS providers in order to reduce costs and accelerate their time-to-market and time-to-volume production. Building on our integrated engineering and manufacturing capabilities, we offer services from initial product design and test to final product assembly and distribution to OEM customers. Our systems integration assembly and direct order fulfillment services allow our customers to reduce product cost and risk of product obsolescence by reducing their total work-in-process and finished goods inventory. These services are available at many of our manufacturing locations. In 2009, we added certain precision machining assets and capabilities to provide precision machining, metal joining and complex electromechanical manufacturing services in Arizona, California and Mexico. In January 2011, we acquired facilities and certain other assets to expand our precision technologies capabilities in Penang, Malaysia. This expansion added sheet metal and frames fabrication services, advanced metal joining and grinding services, along with complex mechanical assembly and machining services to our Asia service offerings. We also offer our customers high volume production in low cost regions of the world, such as Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania and Thailand. These full service capabilities allow us to offer customers the flexibility to move quickly from design and initial product introduction to production and distribution. We offer our customers the opportunity to combine the benefits of low cost manufacturing (for the portions of their products or systems that can benefit from the use of these geographic areas) with the benefits and capabilities of our higher complexity support of systems integration in Asia, Europe or the United States.

 
 
 

 
·
Leverage Advanced Technological Capabilities. In addition to traditional strengths in manufacturing large, complex high-density printed circuit boards and systems, we offer customers specialized and tailored advanced design, technology and manufacturing solutions for their primary products. We provide this engineering expertise through our design capabilities at our design centers and our advanced technology process development in each of our facilities. We believe our capabilities help our customers utilize cutting edge technologies to improve product performance and reduce costs.

 
 
 

 
·
Continue to Seek Cost Savings and Efficiency Improvements. We seek to optimize all of our facilities to provide cost-efficient services for our customers. This is done through our culture of continuous improvement, sharing best practices and implementing lean principles. We also provide operations in lower cost locations to further offer cost saving solutions to our customers. These sites include Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania and Thailand, and we continue to expand our presence and footprint in these lower cost locations as appropriate to meet the needs of our customers.

 
 
 

 
·
Continue Our Global Expansion. A network of strategically positioned facilities can reduce costs, simplify and shorten an OEM’s supply chain and provide regional solutions thus reducing the time it takes to bring product to market. We are committed to geographic expansion in order to support our customers with cost-effective and timely delivery of quality products and services worldwide. Our ongoing acquisition of facilities has in recent years expanded our presence globally to include Malaysia, Romania and the Netherlands. These added sites provide a global manufacturing solution to our customers through our 21 facilities in nine countries located in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Romania, Singapore, Thailand and the United States.

 


5
 


 


 
·
Pursue Strategic Acquisitions. Our capabilities have continued to grow through acquisitions and we will continue to selectively seek acquisition opportunities. Our acquisitions have enhanced our business in the following ways:

 


 
-
expanded geographic presence;

 
-
enhanced customer growth opportunities;

 
-
developed strategic relationships;

 
-
broadened service offerings;

 
-
provided vertical solutions;

 
-
diversified into new market sectors; and

 
-
added experienced management teams.

 
We believe that growth by selective
acquisitions is critical for achieving the scale, flexibility and breadth of customer services required to remain competitive in
the EMS industry.
  
Services We Provide
 
We offer a wide range of engineering, automation, test, manufacturing
and fulfillment solutions that support our customers’ products from initial design through prototyping, design validation,
testing, ramp-to-volume production, worldwide distribution and aftermarket support. We support all of our service offerings with
supply chain management systems, superior quality program management and sophisticated information technology systems. Our comprehensive
service offerings enable us to provide a complete solution for our customers’ outsourcing requirements.
 
Engineering Solutions
Our approach is to coordinate and integrate our design, prototype
and other engineering capabilities. Through this approach, we provide a broad range of engineering services and, in some cases,
dedicated production lines for prototypes. These services strengthen our relationships with manufacturing customers and attract
new customers requiring specialized engineering services.
 


 
·
New Product Design, Prototype, Test and Related Engineering Solutions. We offer a full spectrum of new product design, automation, test development, prototype and related engineering solutions. Our concurrent engineering approach shortens product development cycles and gives our customers a competitive advantage in time-to-market and time-to-profit. Our multi-disciplined engineering teams provide expertise in a number of core competencies critical to serving OEMs in our target markets, including award-winning industrial design, mechanical and electrical hardware, firmware, software and systems integration and support. We create specifications, designs and quick-turn prototypes, and validate and ramp our customers’ products into high volume manufacturing.

 
 
 

 
·
Custom Test and Automation Equipment Design and Build Solutions. We provide our customers with a comprehensive range of custom automated test equipment, functional test equipment, process automation and replication solutions. We have expertise in tooling, testers, equipment control, systems planning, automation, floor control, systems integration, replication and programming. Our custom functional test equipment, process automation and replication solutions are available to our customers as part of our full service product design and manufacturing solutions package or on a stand-alone basis for products designed and manufactured elsewhere. We also provide custom test equipment and automation system solutions to OEMs. Our ability to provide these solutions allows us to capitalize on OEMs’ increasing needs for custom manufacturing solutions and provides an additional opportunity for us to introduce these customers to our comprehensive engineering and manufacturing services.

 

6
 


Manufacturing and Fulfillment Solutions
As OEMs seek to provide greater functionality in smaller products,
they increasingly require more sophisticated manufacturing technologies and processes. Our investment in advanced manufacturing
equipment and process development as well as our experience in innovative packaging and interconnect technologies enable us to
offer a variety of advanced manufacturing solutions. These packaging and interconnect technologies include:
 


 
·
Printed Circuit Board Assembly & Test. We offer a wide range of printed circuit board assembly and test solutions, including printed circuit board assembly, assembly of subsystems, circuitry and functionality testing of printed assemblies, environmental and stress testing and component reliability testing.

 
 
 

 
·
Flex Circuit Assembly & Test. We provide our customers with a wide range of flex circuit assembly and test solutions. We utilize specialized tooling strategies and advanced automation procedures to minimize circuit handling and ensure that consistent processing parameters are maintained throughout the assembly process.

 
 
 

 
·
Systems Assembly & Test. We work with our customers to develop product-specific test strategies. Our test capabilities include manufacturing defect analysis, in-circuit tests to test the circuitry of the board and functional tests to confirm that the board or assembly operates in accordance with its final design and manufacturing specifications. We either custom design test equipment and software ourselves or use test equipment and software provided by our customers. We also offer our own internally designed functional test solutions for cost effective and flexible test solutions. In addition, we provide environmental stress tests of assemblies of boards or systems.

 
We also have expertise in advanced precision and electromechanical
technologies and optical manufacturing services. In order to meet our customers’ demand for systems assembly and test solutions,
we offer subassembly build, final assembly, functionality testing, configuration and software installation and final packaging
services.
 
Precision Electromechanical Assembly and Test. We offer
a full spectrum of precision subsystem and system integration services. These services include assembly, configuration and test
of complex computers and related products for business enterprises, medical devices, industrial control equipment (which includes
equipment for the aerospace and defense industry), testing and instrumentation products, and telecommunication equipment. We design,
develop and build product specific manufacturing processes utilizing manual, mechanized or fully automated lines to meet our customers’
product volume and quality requirements. All of our assembly and test processes are developed according to customer specifications
and replicated within our facilities. Product life cycle testing services are provided such as Ongoing Reliability Testing where
units are continuously cycled for extended testing while monitoring for early life failures.
 
Failure Analysis. We offer an array of analytical solutions
and expertise to challenging issues that face our customers. This includes focused techniques for failure mode, failure mechanism,
and root cause determination. Specialized analytical skill sets associated with electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical disciplines
are used in conjunction with a vast array of equipment such as ion chromatography, x-ray florescence, and scanning electron microscopy.
Our state-of-the-art lab facilities provide customers with detailed reporting and support in an unbiased, timely, and cost-effective
manner. Mastering emerging technologies coupled with a complete understanding of potential failure mechanisms positions us to exceed
customer expectations and maintain our technological diversity.
 

7
 

 
Direct Order Fulfillment. We provide direct order fulfillment
for certain of our OEM customers. Direct order fulfillment involves receiving customer orders, configuring products to quickly
fill the orders and delivering the products either to the OEM, a distribution channel or directly to the end customer. We manage
our direct order fulfillment processes using a core set of common systems and processes that receive order information from the
customer and provide comprehensive supply chain management, including procurement and production planning. These systems and processes
enable us to process orders for multiple system configurations and varying production quantities, including single units. Our direct
order fulfillment services include build-to-order (BTO) and configure-to-order (CTO) capabilities. BTO involves building a complete
system in real-time to a highly customized configuration ordered by the OEM customer. CTO involves configuring systems to an end
customer’s specifications at the time the product is ordered. The end customer typically places this order by choosing from
a variety of possible system configurations and options. We are capable of meeting a 2 to 24 hour turnaround time for BTO and CTO.
We support our direct order fulfillment services with logistics that include delivery of parts and assemblies to the final assembly
site, distribution and shipment of finished systems, and processing of customer returns.
 
Aftermarket Non-Warranty Services. We provide our customers
with a range of aftermarket non-warranty services, including repair, replacement, refurbishment, remanufacturing, exchange, systems
upgrade and spare part manufacturing throughout a product’s life cycle. These services are tracked and supported by specific
information technology systems that can be tailored to meet our customers’ individual requirements.
 
Value-Added Support Systems. We support our engineering,
manufacturing, distribution and aftermarket support services with an efficient supply chain management system and a superior quality
management program. All of our value-added support services are implemented and managed through web-based information technology
systems that enable us to collaborate with our customers throughout all stages of the engineering, manufacturing and order fulfillment
processes.
 
Supply Chain Management. Our inventory management and
volume procurement capabilities contribute to assurance of supply, cost reductions and reduce total cycle time. Our materials strategy
is focused on leveraging our procurement volume companywide while providing local execution for maximum flexibility at the division
level. In addition, our systems integration facilities have developed material processes required to support system integration
operations.
 
We utilize a full complement of electronic data interchange
transactions with our suppliers to coordinate forecasts, orders, reschedules, and inventory and component lead times. Our enterprise
resource planning systems provide product and production information to our supply chain management, engineering change management
and floor control systems. Our information systems also control serialization, production and quality data for all of our facilities
around the world utilizing state-of-the-art statistical process control techniques for continuous process improvements. To enhance
our ability to rapidly respond to changes in our customers’ requirements by effectively managing changes in our supply chain,
we utilize web-based interfaces and real-time supply chain management software products which allow for scaling operations to meet
customer needs, shifting capacity in response to product demand fluctuations, reducing materials costs and effectively distributing
products to our customers or their end-customers.
 

8
 

 
Manufacturing Technologies. We offer our customers expertise
in a wide variety of traditional and advanced manufacturing technologies. Our technical expertise supports standard printed circuit
board assembly as well as complex products that require advanced engineering skills and equipment.
 
We also provide our customers with a comprehensive set of manufacturing
technologies and solutions which include:
 


 
·
Pin Thru Hole;

 
·
Surface Mount Technology;

 
·
Fine Pitch;

 
·
Ball Grid Array;

 
·
Part on Part;

 
·
Flip Chip;

 
·
Chip On Board/Wire Bonding;

 
·
In-Circuit Test;

 
·
Board Level Functional Test; and

 
·
Stress Testing.

 
We also provide specialized solutions in support of our customers’
components, products and systems which include:
 


 
·
Adhesives;

 
·
Conformal Coating;

 
·
Ultrasonic Welding;

 
·
Splicing and Connectorization for Optical Applications;

 
·
Hybrid Optical/Electrical Printed Circuit Board Assembly and Test; and

 
·
Sub-Micron Alignment of Optical Sub-Assemblies.

 
Through our Component Engineering Services, we are helping
our customers deal with the changing international environmental regulations such as the European Union (EU) Restriction of the
Use of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS). Manufacturing sites in the Americas, Asia and European
regions are certified in both water soluble and no-clean processes and are currently producing products that are RoHS compliant.
 
Precision Technologies. We provide precision machining,
metal joining and complex electromechanical manufacturing services and utilize the following precision technologies:
 


 
·
Complex Small / Medium / Large Computer Numerical Controlled Machining;

 
·
Precision Multi-Axis Grinding of Aerospace Engine Blades, Vanes and Nozzles;

 
·
Precision Grinding of Mass Spectrometer Components;

 
·
Sinker Electrical Discharge Machining;

 
·
Turnkey Precision Clean Room Module Assembly and Functional Test;

 
·
Major Electromechanical Sub Assembly;

 
·
Laser Welding; and

 
·
Advanced Metal Joining.



9
 

 
Marketing and Customers
 
We market our services primarily through a direct sales force
and, in select markets, independent marketing representatives. In addition, our divisional and executive management teams are an
integral part of our sales and marketing teams. We generally enter into supply arrangements with our customers. These arrangements,
similar to purchase orders, generally govern the conduct of business between our customer and ourselves relating to, among other
things, the manufacture of products which in many cases were previously produced by the customer itself. Such arrangements generally
identify the specific products to be manufactured, quality and production requirements, product pricing and materials management.
There can be no assurance that at any time these arrangements will remain in effect or be renewed.
 
Our key customer accounts are supported by a dedicated team,
including a global account manager who is directly responsible for account management. Global account managers coordinate activities
across divisions to effectively satisfy customer requirements and have direct access to our executive management to quickly address
customer concerns. Local customer account teams further support the global teams and are linked by a comprehensive communications
and information management infrastructure. In addition, our executive management is heavily involved in customer relations and
devote significant attention to broadening existing and developing new customer relationships.
 
The following table sets forth the percentages of our sales
by industry for 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 


  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
    
    
   

Computers and related products for business enterprises 
 29% 
 32% 
 39%

Industrial control equipment 
 29  
 25  
 20 

Telecommunication equipment 
 23  
 23  
 23 

Testing and instrumentation products 
 10  
 10  
 4 

Medical devices 
 9  
 10  
 14 

 
Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been
made to a small number of customers. Sales to our ten largest customers represented 53%, 47% and 52% of our sales in 2011, 2010
and 2009, respectively. In 2011, sales to International Business Machines Corporation represented 14% of our sales. The loss of
a major customer, if not replaced, would adversely affect us. Our future sales are dependent on the success of our customers, some
of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change and consequent product obsolescence. Developments adverse
to our major customers or their products, or the failure of a major customer to pay for components or services, could have an adverse
effect on us.
 
Suppliers
 
We maintain a network of suppliers of components and other
materials used in our operations. We procure components when a purchase order or forecast is received from a customer and occasionally
utilize components or other materials for which a supplier is the single source of supply. If any of these single source suppliers
were to be unable to provide these materials, a shortage of these components could temporarily interrupt our operations and lower
our profits until such time as an alternate component could be identified and qualified for use. Although we experience component
shortages and longer lead times for various components from time to time, we have generally been able to reduce the impact of the
component shortages by working with customers to reschedule deliveries, by working with suppliers to provide the needed components
using just-in-time inventory programs, or by purchasing components at somewhat higher prices from distributors rather than directly
from manufacturers. In addition, by developing long-term relationships with suppliers, we have been better able to minimize the
effects of component shortages compared to manufacturers without such relationships. The goal of these procedures is to reduce
our inventory risk.
 

10
 

 
Backlog
 
We had sales backlog of approximately $1.6 billion at December
31, 2011, as compared to the 2010 year-end backlog of $1.5 billion. Backlog consists of purchase orders received, including, in
some instances, forecast requirements released for production under customer contracts. Although we expect to fill substantially
all of our year-end backlog during 2012, we currently do not have long-term agreements with all of our customers and customer orders
can be canceled, changed or delayed. The timely replacement of canceled, changed or delayed orders with orders from new customers
cannot be assured, nor can there be any assurance that any of our current customers will continue to utilize our services. Because
of these factors, our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future financial results.
 
Competition
 
The electronics manufacturing services we provide are available
from many independent sources as well as from the in-house manufacturing capabilities of current and potential customers. Our competitors
include Celestica Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Plexus
Corp and Sanmina-SCI Corporation, who may be more established in the industry and have substantially greater financial, manufacturing
or marketing resources than we do. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our targeted markets are engineering capabilities,
product quality, flexibility, cost and timeliness in responding to design and schedule changes, reliability in meeting product
delivery schedules, pricing, technological sophistication and geographic location.
 
In addition, in recent years, original design manufacturers
(ODMs) that provide design and manufacturing services to OEMs have significantly increased their share of outsourced manufacturing
services provided to OEMs in markets such as notebook and desktop computers, personal computer motherboards, and consumer electronic
products. Competition from ODMs may increase if our business in these markets grows or if ODMs expand further into or beyond these
markets.
 
Governmental Regulation
 
Our operations, and the operations of businesses that we acquire,
are subject to certain foreign, federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to security clearance, environmental,
waste management, and health and safety matters. We believe we operate in substantial compliance with all applicable requirements.
However, material costs and liabilities may arise from these requirements or from new, modified or more stringent requirements,
which could affect our earnings and competitive position. In addition, our past, current and future operations, and those of businesses
we acquire, may give rise to claims of exposure by employees or the public or to other claims or liabilities relating to environmental,
waste management or health and safety concerns.
 
We periodically generate and temporarily handle limited amounts
of materials that are considered hazardous waste under applicable law. We contract for the off-site disposal of these materials
and have implemented a waste management program to address related regulatory issues.
 

11
 

 
Employees
 
As of December 31, 2011, we employed 9,985 people, of whom
7,438 were engaged in manufacturing and operations, 1,299 in materials control and procurement, 467 in design and development,
286 in marketing and sales, and 495 in administration. None of our domestic employees are represented by a labor union. In certain
international locations, our employees are represented by labor unions and by works councils. Some European countries also often
have mandatory legal provisions regarding terms of employment, severance compensation and other conditions of employment that are
more restrictive than U.S. laws. We have never experienced a strike or similar work stoppage and we believe that our employee relations
are satisfactory.
 
Segments and International Operations
 
We have manufacturing facilities in the Americas, Asia and
Europe regions to serve our customers. Benchmark is operated and managed geographically and management evaluates performance and
allocates resources on a geographic basis. We currently operate outside the United States in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, the
Netherlands, Romania, Singapore and Thailand. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, 51%, 48% and 47%, respectively, of our sales were from
our international operations. As a result of customer demand overseas, we expect foreign sales to increase. Our foreign sales and
operations are subject to risk of doing business abroad, including fluctuations in the value of currency, export duties, import
controls and trade barriers, including stoppages, longer payment cycles, burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws
and, in certain parts of the world, political instability. Additionally, some of our operations are in developing countries. Certain
events, including natural disasters, can impact the infrastructure of a developing country more severely than they would impact
the infrastructure of a developed country. A developing country can also take longer to recover from such events, which could lead
to delays in our ability to resume full operations. There can be no assurances that there will not be an adverse impact on our
results of operations in the future. See Item 1A for factors pertaining to our international sales and fluctuations in the exchange
rates of foreign currency and for further discussion of potential adverse effects in operating results associated with the risks
of doing business abroad. See Note 9 and Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for segment
and geographical information.
 
Available Information
 
Our internet address is http://www.bench.com. We make available
free of charge through our internet website our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material
with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC’s
website at http://www.sec.gov or to read and copy at the SEC Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Information can be obtained on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
 

12
 

 
Item
1A. Risk Factors
 
Recent severe flooding in Thailand, which impacted our Ayudhaya
manufacturing facilities, resulted in the suspension of all production in those facilities and adversely affected our business,
results of operations and financial condition.
 
Our manufacturing facilities in Ayudhaya, Thailand generated
approximately 24% of our revenue in first nine months of 2011. The recent severe flooding in Thailand, and the October 13, 2011
suspension of production in our Ayudhaya manufacturing facilities, adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial
condition in the fourth quarter of 2011 and such adverse affects will continue at least in the near-term. We face material risks
and uncertainties as a result of the flooding, including those in the following areas:
 


 
·
Recommencement and Continuance of Full Operations. Our Ayudhaya manufacturing facilities restarted partial operations on December 21, 2011. At this time, we anticipate the facilities returning to full operations by the end of the first quarter of 2012. While we are restoring production capacity in Thailand, including at our recently restarted facility in Korat, Thailand, the extent of additional manufacturing we can achieve may be limited by our ability to attract and retain customers for these operations. Our profitability will be adversely impacted by significant underabsorption of our assets and infrastructure, any further delay in the commencement back to full operations in Ayudhaya and the inefficiencies resulting from operating facilities in both Korat and Ayudhaya.

 
 
 

 
·
Availability of Components. We are also experiencing component shortages from suppliers located in several Thailand industrial parks that were impacted by the flood. We are working with our suppliers to find alternative sources for our component materials, if required. Additionally, due to supply constraints, the cost of certain component materials may increase, which may adversely affect our results of operations.

 
 
 

 
·
Recovery and Related Charges and Expenses. We have incurred and expect to incur charges and expenses related to recovering from the flooding of our Ayudhaya facilities and its impact on our operations, including items such as damages to fixed assets and inventory and charges for restoration and recovery work. The timing of the incurrence of these charges and expenses is dependent on the time required to complete our recovery efforts and recommence production in Thailand at normal capacity.

 
 
 

 
·
Insurance. We maintain insurance coverage that provides for reimbursement from certain losses resulting from flood damage. We also maintain insurance for business interruption losses, and we are currently working with our insurance carrier to determine the amounts we may recover under our policies. We cannot estimate the timing of the receipt of insurance proceeds we will ultimately realize, and there may be a substantial delay between our incurrence of losses and our recovery under our insurance policies.

 
Because the situation in Thailand is still evolving, significant
uncertainty remains regarding the full financial impact that the flooding will have on us. Furthermore, if flooding in the region
recurs, disruptions to our facilities could continue over an extended period of time, restrict our ability to obtain components
from our Thailand suppliers, impair our ability to meet our customers’ production requirements, cause cancellations of customer
orders and reduce demand for our services, which could have a materially adverse affect on our business, results of operations
and financial condition.
 

13
 

  
Adverse market conditions in the electronics industry
could reduce our future sales and earnings per share.
 
There was an erosion of global consumer confidence amidst concerns
over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising
unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. These
concerns slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in many countries, including in the United States, Europe
and certain countries in Asia over the past several years. Even though we have seen signs of an overall economic recovery, such
recovery may be weak and/or short-lived and recessionary conditions may return. If any of these potential negative economic conditions
occur, they may result in lower spending by businesses in the future, which in turn may affect demand for our customers’
products and thus adversely affect our sales. Consequently, our past operating results, earnings and cash flows may not be indicative
of our future operating results, earnings and cash flows.
 
In addition to our customers or potential customers reducing
or delaying orders, a number of other negative effects on our business could materialize, including the insolvency of key suppliers,
which could result in production delays, shorter payment terms from suppliers due to reduced availability of credit default insurance
in the market, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could
impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables, increase our need for cash, and decrease our
net revenue and profitability.
 
Shortages or price increases of components specified by
our customers would delay shipments and adversely affect our profitability.
 
Substantially all of our sales are derived from manufacturing
services in which we purchase components specified by our customers. In the past, supply shortages have substantially curtailed
production of all assemblies using a particular component and industry-wide shortages of electronic components, particularly of
memory and logic devices, have occurred. In addition, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan disrupted the global supply
chain for certain components manufactured in Japan that are incorporated in the products we manufacture, and the flooding in Thailand
during the fourth quarter of 2011 had a similar impact. If shortages of these components occur or if components received are defective,
we may be forced to delay shipments, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins. Also, because of the continued increase
in demand for surface mount components, we anticipate component shortages and longer lead times for certain components to occur
from time to time. Also, we may bear the risk of component price increases that occur between periodic re-pricings of product during
the term of a customer contract. Accordingly, certain component price increases could adversely affect our gross profit margins.
 
We are dependent on the success of our customers. When
our customers experience a downturn in their business, we may be similarly affected.
 
We are dependent on the continued growth, viability and financial
stability of our customers. Our customers are OEMs of:
 


 
·
computers and related products for business enterprises;

 
·
medical devices;

 
·
industrial control equipment;

 
·
testing and instrumentation products; and

 
·
telecommunication equipment.

 
Often, these industries are subject to rapid technological
change, vigorous competition, short product life cycles and consequent product obsolescence. When our customers are adversely affected
by these factors, we may be similarly affected.
 


14
 

 
 
The loss of a major customer would adversely affect us.
 
Historically, a substantial percentage of our sales have been
made to a small number of customers. The loss of a major customer, if not replaced, would adversely affect us. Sales to our ten
largest customers represented 53%, 47% and 52% of our sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2011, sales to International
Business Machines Corporation represented 14% of our sales. Our future sales are dependent on the success of our customers, some
of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change and consequent product obsolescence. Developments adverse
to our major customers or their products, or the failure of a major customer to pay for components or services, could have an adverse
effect on us.
 
We expect to continue to depend on the sales to our largest
customers and any material delay, cancellation or reduction of orders from these customers or other significant customers would
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivables in connection
with providing manufacturing services to our customers. If one or more of our customers were to become insolvent or otherwise unable
to pay for the manufacturing services provided by us, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected.
 
Most of our customers do not commit to long-term production
schedules, which makes it difficult for us to schedule production and achieve maximum efficiency of our manufacturing capacity.
 
The volume and timing of sales to our customers may vary due
to:
 


 
·
variation in demand for our customers’ products;

 
·
our customers’ attempts to manage their inventory;

 
·
electronic design changes;

 
·
changes in our customers’ manufacturing strategy; and

 
·
acquisitions of or consolidations among customers.

 
Due in part to these factors, most of our customers do not
commit to firm production schedules for more than one quarter in advance. Our inability to forecast the level of customer orders
with certainty makes it difficult to schedule production and maximize utilization of manufacturing capacity. In the past, we have
been required to increase staffing and other expenses in order to meet the anticipated demand of our customers. Anticipated orders
from many of our customers have, in the past, failed to materialize or delivery schedules have been deferred as a result of changes
in our customers’ business needs, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. On other occasions, our customers
have required rapid increases in production, which have placed an excessive burden on our resources. Such customer order fluctuations
and deferrals have had a material adverse effect on us in the past, and we may experience such effects in the future. A business
downturn resulting from any of these external factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating income. See Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report.
 
Our customers may cancel their orders, change production
quantities, delay production or change their sourcing strategy.
 
EMS providers must provide increasingly rapid product turnaround
for their customers. We generally do not obtain firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers and we continue to experience
reduced lead-times in customer orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities, delay production or change
their sourcing strategy for a number of reasons. The degree of success or failure of our customers’ products in the market
affects our business. Cancellations, reductions, delays or changes in the sourcing strategy by a significant customer or by a group
of customers could negatively impact our operating income.
 


15
 

 
In addition, we make significant decisions, including determining
the levels of business that we will seek and accept, production schedules, component procurement commitments, personnel needs,
capital expenditures and other resource requirements, based on our estimate of customer requirements. The short-term nature of
our customers’ commitments and the possibility of rapid changes in demand for their products may impede our ability to accurately
estimate the future requirements of those customers.
 
On occasion, customers may require rapid increases in production,
which can stress our resources and reduce operating margins. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are
relatively fixed, a reduction in customer demand can harm our gross profits and operating results. See Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this report.
 
We may encounter significant delays or defaults in payments
owed to us by customers for products we have manufactured or components that are unique to particular customers.
 
We structure our agreements with customers to mitigate our
risks related to obsolete or unsold inventory. However, enforcement of these contracts may result in material expense and delay
in payment for inventory. If any of our significant customers become unable or unwilling to purchase such inventory, our business
may be materially harmed. See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item
7 of this report.
 
Our international operations may be subject to certain
risks.
 
We currently operate outside the United States in Brazil, China,
Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Romania, Singapore and Thailand. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, 51%, 48% and 47%, respectively,
of our sales were from our international operations. These international operations may be subject to a number of risks, including:
 


 
·
difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;

 
·
coordinating communications and logistics across geographic distances and multiple time zones;

 
·
less flexible employee relationships which can be difficult and expensive to terminate;

 
·
political and economic instability (including acts of terrorism and outbreaks of war), which could impact our ability to ship and/or receive product;

 
·
unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and laws;

 
·
changes in government policies, which could impact our business;

 
·
longer customer payment cycles and difficulty collecting accounts receivable;

 
·
export duties, import controls and trade barriers (including quotas);

 
·
governmental restrictions on the transfer of funds;

 
·
risk of governmental expropriation of our property;

 
·
burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and labor practices;

 
·
fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could affect component costs, local payroll, utility and other expenses; and

 
·
inability to utilize net operating losses incurred by our foreign operations to reduce our U.S. income taxes.

 
In addition, several of the countries where we operate have
emerging or developing economies, which may be subject to greater currency volatility, negative growth, high inflation, limited
availability of foreign exchange and other risks. Additionally, some of our operations are in developing countries. Certain events,
including natural disasters, can impact the infrastructure of a developing country more severely than they would impact the infrastructure
of a developed country. A developing country can also take longer to recover from such events, which could lead to delays in our
ability to resume full operations. These factors may harm our results of operations, and any measures that we may implement to
reduce the effect of volatile currencies and other risks of our international operations may not be effective. In our experience,
entry into new international markets requires considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development,
hiring and establishing office facilities before any significant revenues are generated. As a result, initial operations in a new
market may operate at low margins or may be unprofitable.
 


16
 


 
Our operations in certain foreign locations receive favorable
income tax treatment in the form of tax holidays or other incentives. In the event that such tax holidays or other incentives are
not extended or are repealed, or in the event that we no longer qualify for such programs, our taxes may increase, which would
reduce our net income.
 
Additionally, certain foreign jurisdictions restrict the amount
of cash that can be transferred to the U.S or impose taxes and penalties on such transfers of cash. To the extent we have excess
cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our operations in the United States, we may incur significant
penalties and/or taxes to repatriate these funds.
 
Another significant legal risk resulting from our international
operations is compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). In many foreign countries, particularly in those
with developing economies, it may be a local custom that businesses operating in such countries engage in business practices that
are prohibited by the FCPA or other U.S. laws and regulations. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed
to cause compliance with the FCPA and similar laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, and agents, as well as
those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any
such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 
We operate in a highly competitive industry; if we are not able
to compete effectively in the EMS industry, our business could be adversely affected.
 
We compete against many providers of electronics manufacturing
services. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater resources and more geographically diversified international operations
than we do. Our competitors include large independent manufacturers such as Celestica Inc., Flextronics International Ltd., Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc., Plexus Corp and Sanmina-SCI Corporation. In addition, we may in the future
encounter competition from other large electronic manufacturers that are selling, or may begin to sell, electronics manufacturing
services.
 
We also face competition from the manufacturing operations
of our current and future customers, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products internally against the
advantages of outsourcing to EMS providers. In addition, in recent years, ODMs that provide design and manufacturing services to
OEMs, have significantly increased their share of outsourced manufacturing services provided to OEMs in several markets, such as
notebook and desktop computers, personal computer motherboards, and consumer electronic products. Competition from ODMs may increase
if our business in these markets grows or if ODMs expand further into or beyond these markets.
 
During periods of recession in the electronics industry, our
competitive advantages in the areas of quick turnaround manufacturing and responsive customer service may be of reduced importance
to electronics OEMs, who may become more price sensitive. We may also be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when
compared to manufacturers with lower cost structures, particularly those with more offshore facilities located where labor and
other costs are lower.
 
We experience intense competition, which can intensify further
as more companies enter the markets in which we operate, as existing competitors expand capacity and as the industry consolidates.
The availability of excess manufacturing capacity at many of our competitors creates intense pricing and competitive pressure on
the EMS industry as a whole and Benchmark in particular. To compete effectively, we must continue to provide technologically advanced
manufacturing services, maintain strict quality standards, respond flexibly and rapidly to customers’ design and schedule
changes and deliver products globally on a reliable basis at competitive prices. Our inability to do so could have an adverse effect
on us.
 

17
 

 
 
The integration of acquired operations may pose difficulties
for us.
 
Our capabilities have continued to grow through acquisitions
and we may pursue additional acquisitions over time. These acquisitions involve risks, including:
 


 
·
integration and management of the operations;

 
·
retention of key personnel;

 
·
integration of purchasing operations and information systems;

 
·
retention of the customer base of acquired businesses;

 
·
management of an increasingly larger and more geographically disparate business; and

 
·
diversion of management’s attention from other ongoing business concerns.

 
Our profitability will suffer if we are unable to successfully
integrate any acquisition and manage any future acquisitions that we might pursue, or if we do not achieve sufficient revenue to
offset the increased expenses associated with these acquisitions.
 
We may experience fluctuations in quarterly results.
 
Our quarterly results may vary significantly depending on various
factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include:
 


 
·
the volume of customer orders relative to our capacity;

 
·
customer introduction and market acceptance of new products;

 
·
changes in demand for customer products;

 
·
pricing and other competitive pressures;

 
·
the timing of our expenditures in anticipation of future orders;

 
·
our effectiveness in managing manufacturing processes;

 
·
changes in cost and availability of labor and components;

 
·
changes in our product mix;

 
·
changes in political and economic conditions; and

 
·
local factors and events that may affect our production volume, such as local holidays or natural disasters.

 
Additionally, as is the case with many high technology companies,
a significant portion of our shipments typically occur in the last few weeks of a given quarter. Accordingly, sales shifts from
quarter to quarter may not be readily apparent until the end of a given quarter, and may have a significant effect on reported
results.
 
Our investments in auction rate securities are subject
to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we held $28.0 million (par value)
of auction rate securities, classified as long-term investments, whose underlying assets were in guaranteed student loans backed
by a U. S. Government agency and municipal issue bonds. These investments are of a high credit quality with a majority having AAA
type credit ratings because of the government agency guarantee and other insurance. Auction rate securities are adjustable rate
debt instruments whose interest rates were intended to reset every 7 to 35 days through an auction process. Overall changes in
the global credit and capital markets led to failed auctions for these securities beginning in early 2008. These failed auctions,
in addition to overall global economic conditions, impacted the liquidity of these investments and resulted in our continuing to
hold these securities beyond their typical auction reset dates. The market for these types of securities remains illiquid as of
December 31, 2011. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our adjustable rate securities
in the near term may be limited or not exist. If the issuers of these adjustable rate securities are unable to successfully close
future auctions or their credit quality deteriorates, we may in the future be required to record an impairment charge on these
investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of
the underlying notes (up to 40 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. As of December 31, 2011, we had $3.3 million
of unrealized losses on these securities that is recorded in other comprehensive loss. We estimated the fair value of each security
using Level 3 inputs with the assistance of an independent valuation firm. We have not to date incurred any payment defaults on
any maturing auction rate securities we hold.
 

18
 


 
Start-up costs and inefficiencies related to new or transferred
programs can adversely affect our operating results and such costs may not be recoverable if such new programs or transferred programs
are cancelled.
 
Start-up costs, the management of labor and equipment resources
in connection with the establishment of new programs and new customer relationships, and the need to estimate required resources
in advance can adversely affect our gross margins and operating results. These factors are particularly evident in the early stages
of the life cycle of new products and new programs or program transfers and in the opening of new facilities. These factors also
affect our ability to efficiently use labor and equipment. We are currently managing a number of new programs. If any of these
new programs or new customer relationships were terminated, our operating results could be harmed, particularly in the short
term. We may not be able to recoup these start-up costs or replace anticipated new program revenues.
 
We are exposed to general economic conditions, which could
have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
 
Our business is cyclical and has experienced economic and industry
downturns. If the economic conditions and demand for our customers’ products deteriorate, we may experience a material adverse
impact on our business, operating results and financial condition.
 
In cases where the evidence suggests a customer may not be
able to satisfy its obligation to us, we set up reserves in an amount we determine appropriate for the perceived risk. There can
be no assurance that our reserves will be adequate to meet this risk. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional receivable and inventory reserves may be required and
restructuring charges may be incurred.
 
We may be affected by consolidation in the electronics
industry, which could create increased pricing and competitive pressures on our business.
 
Consolidation in the electronics industry could result in an
increase in excess manufacturing capacity as companies seek to close plants or take other steps to increase efficiencies and realize
synergies of mergers. The availability of excess manufacturing capacity could create increased pricing and competitive pressures
for the EMS industry as a whole and our business in particular. In addition, consolidation could also result in an increasing number
of very large electronics companies offering products in multiple sectors of the electronics industry. The growth of these large
companies, with significant purchasing and marketing power, could also result in increased pricing and competitive pressures for
us. Accordingly, industry consolidation could harm our business. We may need to increase our efficiencies to compete and may incur
additional restructuring charges.
 
We are subject to the risk of increased taxes.
 
We base our tax position upon the anticipated nature and conduct
of our business and upon our understanding of the tax laws of the various countries in which we have assets or conduct activities.
Our tax position, however, is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law. We
cannot determine in advance the extent to which some jurisdictions may assess additional tax or interest and penalties on such
additional taxes.
 

19
 


 
Several countries in which we are located allow for tax holidays
or provide other tax incentives to attract and retain business. We have obtained holidays or other incentives where available.
Our taxes could increase if certain tax holidays or incentives are retracted, or if they are not renewed upon expiration, or tax
rates applicable to us in such jurisdictions are otherwise increased. In addition, further acquisitions may cause our effective
tax rate to increase. Given the scope of our international operations and our international tax arrangements, proposed changes
to the manner in which U.S. based multinational companies are taxed in the U.S. could have a material impact on our financial results
and competitiveness.
 
We are exposed to intangible asset risk; our goodwill
may become further impaired.
 
We have recorded intangible assets, including goodwill, in
connection with business acquisitions. We are required to perform goodwill and intangible asset impairment tests at least on an
annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable from estimated future
cash flows. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2008 indicated there was an impairment of goodwill
in two of our reporting segments, the Americas and Europe, primarily due to a decline in our market capitalization and market turmoil.
Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge in the fourth quarter of 2008 totaling $247.5 million. A further significant
and sustained decline in our market capitalization could result in material charges in future periods that could be adverse to
our operating results and financial position. As of December 31, 2011, we had $37.9 million in goodwill and $13.9 million of identifiable
intangible assets. See Note 1(h) to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report.
 
There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates,
judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. Any changes in estimates,
judgments and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
 
The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic
reports we file with the SEC are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (US
GAAP). The preparation of financial statements in accordance with US GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions
that affect reported amounts of assets (including intangible assets), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and
income. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result
in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
 
We are involved in various legal proceedings.
 
In the past, we have been notified of claims relating to various
matters including intellectual property rights, contractual matters or other issues arising in the ordinary course of business.
In the event of such a claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to defend or otherwise address the claim.
Any litigation, even where a claim is without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Accordingly,
the resolution or adjudication of such disputes, even those encountered in the ordinary course of business, could have a material
adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial conditions and results of operations. See Item 3 and Note 15 to the consolidated
financial statements in Item 8 of this report.
 
Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent
on our key personnel.
 
We depend significantly on our executive officers and other
key personnel. The unexpected loss of the services of any one of these executive officers or other key personnel would have an
adverse effect on us.
 
If we are unable to maintain our technological and manufacturing
process expertise, our business could be adversely affected.
 
The market for our manufacturing services is characterized
by rapidly changing technology and continuing process development. We are continually evaluating the advantages and feasibility
of new manufacturing processes. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and provide manufacturing
services which meet our customers’ changing needs. This requires that we maintain technological leadership and successfully
anticipate or respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our failure to
maintain our technological and manufacturing process expertise could have a material adverse effect on our business.
 

20
 


 
Our stock price is volatile.
 
Our common shares have experienced significant price volatility,
and such volatility may continue in the future. The price of our common shares could fluctuate widely in response to a range of
factors, including variations in our reported financial results and changing conditions in the economy in general or in our industry
in particular. In addition, stock markets generally experience significant price and volume volatility from time to time which
may affect the market price of our common shares for reasons unrelated to our performance.
 
Provisions in our shareholder rights plan, our charter documents
and state law may make it harder for others to obtain control of our company even though some shareholders might consider such
a development to be favorable.
 
Our shareholder rights plan, as amended, provisions of our
amended and restated articles of incorporation, as amended, and the Texas Business Corporation Act may delay, inhibit or prevent
someone from gaining control of our company through a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest or some other method. These
provisions include:
 


 
·
a “poison pill” shareholder rights plan;

 
·
a statutory restriction on the ability of shareholders to take action by less than unanimous written consent; and

 
·
a statutory restriction on business combinations with some types of interested shareholders.

 
Compliance or the failure to comply with governmental
regulations could cause us significant expense.
 
We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign
environmental laws and regulations relating to environmental, waste management, and health and safety concerns, including the handling,
storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials used in or derived from our manufacturing processes. If we or companies
we acquire have failed or fail in the future to comply with such laws and regulations, then we could incur liabilities and fines
and our operations could be suspended. Such laws and regulations could also restrict our ability to modify or expand our facilities,
could require us to acquire costly equipment, or could impose other significant expenditures. In addition, our operations may give
rise to claims of property contamination or human exposure to hazardous chemicals or conditions.
 
Our worldwide operations are subject to local laws and regulations.
Over the last several years, we have become subject to the RoHS directive and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive.
These directives restrict the distribution of products within the EU containing certain substances, including lead, and require
a manufacturer or importer to recycle products containing those substances. In addition, China has recently passed the Management
Methods for Controlling Pollution by Electronic Information Products, which will eventually prohibit the import of products for
use in China that contain substances similar to those banned by the RoHS directive.
 
Both directives affect the worldwide electronics and electronics
components industries as a whole. If we or our customers fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we could incur liabilities
and fines and our operations could be suspended.
 
In addition, as global warming issues become more prevalent,
the U.S. and foreign governments are beginning to respond to these issues. This increasing governmental focus on global warming
may result in new environmental regulations that may negatively affect us, our suppliers and our customers. This could cause us
to incur additional direct costs in complying with any new environmental regulations, as well as increased indirect costs resulting
from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that get passed on to us. These costs may adversely
impact our operations and financial condition.
 

21
 


 
Our business may be adversely impacted by geopolitical
events.
 
As a global business, we operate and have customers located
in many countries. Geopolitical events such as terrorist acts may affect the overall economic environment and negatively impact
the demand for our customers’ products or our ability to ship or receive products. As a result, customer orders may be lower
and our financial results may be adversely affected.
 
Our business may be adversely impacted by natural disasters.
 
Some of our facilities, including our corporate headquarters,
are located in areas which may be impacted by hurricanes, earthquakes, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, typhoons, fires, extreme
weather conditions and other natural or manmade disasters. Our insurance coverage with respect to natural disasters is limited
and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate, or may not continue to be available at commercially
reasonable rates and terms.
 
In addition, some of our facilities possess certifications
necessary to work on specialized products that our other locations lack. If work is disrupted at one of these facilities, it may
be impractical, or we may be unable, to transfer such specialized work to another facility without significant costs and delays.
Thus, any disruption in operations at a facility possessing specialized certifications could adversely affect our ability to provide
products and services to our customers, and thus negatively affect our relationships and financial results.
 
We may be exposed to interest rate fluctuations.
 
We will have exposure to interest rate risk under our variable
rate revolving credit facilities to the extent we incur indebtedness under such facilities. These facilities’ interest rates
are based on the spread over the bank’s prime rate or LIBOR. We are also exposed to interest rate risk on our invested cash
balances.
 
Changes in financial accounting standards or policies
have affected, and in the future may affect, our reported financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, changes in
securities laws and regulations have increased, and are likely to continue to increase, our operating costs.
 
We prepare our financial statements in conformity with US GAAP.
These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants (AICPA), the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change
in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions which are
completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of how we interpret or implement those rules
may have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results or on the way we conduct business. For example, although not
yet currently required, we could be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) which is different than
US GAAP.
 
In addition, in connection with our Section 404 certification
process, we may identify from time to time deficiencies in our internal controls. Any material weakness or deficiency in our internal
controls over financial reporting could materially and negatively impact our reported financial results and the market price of
our stock could significantly decline. Additionally, adverse publicity related to the disclosure of a material weakness or deficiency
in internal controls over financial reporting could have a negative impact on our reputation, business and stock price.
 

22
 


 
Finally, corporate governance, public disclosure and compliance
practices continue to evolve based upon continuing legislative action, agency rulemaking and stockholder advisory group policies.
As a result, the number of rules and regulations applicable to us may increase, which would also increase our legal and financial
compliance costs and the amount of time management must devote to compliance activities. For example, as a result of the enactment
of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC was required to issue proposed rules requiring disclosure
of the extent to which we use certain minerals in the production of our products. Increasing regulatory burdens could also make
it more difficult for us to attract and retain members of our board of directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee,
and executive officers in light of an increase in actual or perceived workload and liability for serving in such positions.
 
Energy price increases may negatively impact our results
of operations.
 
Certain of the components that we use in our manufacturing
activities are petroleum-based. In addition, we, along with our suppliers and customers, rely on various energy sources (including
oil) in our transportation activities. While significant uncertainty currently exists about the future levels of energy prices,
a significant increase is possible. Increased energy prices could cause an increase to our raw material costs and transportation
costs. In addition, increased transportation costs of certain of our suppliers and customers could be passed along to us. We may
not be able to increase our product prices enough to offset these increased costs. In addition, any increase in our product prices
may reduce our future customer orders and profitability.
 
Introducing programs requiring implementation of new competencies,
including new process technology within our mechanical operations, could affect our operations and financial results.
 
The introduction of programs requiring implementation of new
competencies, including new process technology within our mechanical operations, presents challenges in addition to opportunities.
Deployment of such programs may require us to invest significant resources and capital in facilities, equipment and/or personnel.
We may not meet our customers’ expectations or otherwise execute properly or in a cost-efficient manner, which could damage
our customer relationships and result in remedial costs or the loss of our invested capital and anticipated revenues and profits.
In addition, there are risks of market acceptance and product performance that could result in less demand than anticipated and
our having excess capacity. The failure to ensure that our agreed terms appropriately reflect the anticipated costs, risks, and
rewards of such an opportunity could adversely affect our profitability. If we do not meet one or more of these challenges, our
operations and financial results could be adversely affected.
 
If our manufacturing processes and services do not comply
with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, or if we manufacture products containing design or manufacturing defects,
demand for our services may decline and we may be subject to liability claims.
 
We manufacture and design products to our customers’
specifications, and, in some cases, our manufacturing processes and facilities may need to comply with applicable statutory and
regulatory requirements. For example, medical devices that we manufacture or design, as well as the facilities and manufacturing
processes that we use to produce them, are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and non-U.S. counterparts
of this agency. Similarly, items we manufacture for customers in the defense and aerospace industries, as well as the processes
we use to produce them, are regulated by the Department of Defense and the Federal Aviation Authority. In addition, our customers’
products and the manufacturing processes that we use to produce them often are highly complex. As a result, products that we manufacture
may at times contain manufacturing or design defects, and our manufacturing processes may be subject to errors or not be in compliance
with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Defects in the products we manufacture or design, whether caused by a design,
manufacturing or component failure or error, or deficiencies in our manufacturing processes, may result in delayed shipments to
customers or reduced or cancelled customer orders. If these defects or deficiencies are significant, our business reputation may
also be damaged. The failure of the products that we manufacture or our manufacturing processes and facilities to comply with applicable
statutory and regulatory requirements may subject us to legal fines or penalties and, in some cases, require us to shut down or
incur considerable expense to correct a manufacturing process or facility. In addition, these defects may result in liability claims
against us or expose us to liability to pay for the recall of a product. The magnitude of such claims may increase as we expand
our medical and aerospace and defense manufacturing services, as defects in medical devices and aerospace and defense systems could
seriously harm or kill users of these products and others. Even if our customers are responsible for the defects, they may not,
or may not have resources to, assume responsibility for any costs or liabilities arising from these defects, which could expose
us to additional liability claims.
 

23
 


 
Customer relationships with emerging companies may present
more risks than with established companies.
 
Customer relationships with emerging companies present special
risks because such companies do not have an extensive product history. As a result, there is less demonstration of market acceptance
of their products making it harder for us to anticipate needs and requirements than with established customers. In addition, due
to the current economic environment, additional funding for such companies may be more difficult to obtain and these customer relationships
may not continue or materialize to the extent we planned or we previously experienced. This tightening of financing for start-up
customers, together with many start-up customers’ lack of prior operations and unproven product markets increase our credit
risk, especially in trade accounts receivable and inventories. Although we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers
and adjust our allowance for doubtful accounts receivable for all customers, including start-up customers, based on the information
available, these allowances may not be adequate. This risk may exist for any new emerging company customers in the future.
 
We are subject to breach of our security systems.
 
We have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining
the physical security of our facilities and protecting our customers’ and our suppliers’ confidential information.
Despite such efforts, we are subject to breach of security systems which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and/or
the information we are trying to protect. If unauthorized parties gain physical access to one of our facilities or electronic access
to our information systems or such information is misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission or transport, any theft or misuse
of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty
in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected
parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have
a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flow.
  
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
 
None
 
 

24
 

 
Item 2. Properties
 
Our customers market numerous products throughout the world
and therefore need to access manufacturing services on a global basis. To enhance our EMS offerings, we seek to locate our facilities
either near our customers and our customers’ end markets in major centers for the electronics industry or, where appropriate,
in lower cost locations. Many of our plants located near customers and their end markets are focused primarily on final system
assembly and test, while plants located in lower cost areas are engaged primarily in less complex component and subsystem manufacturing
and assembly.
 
The following chart summarizes our principal manufacturing
facilities owned or leased by Benchmark and its subsidiaries:
 


Location
 
Sq. Ft.
 
Ownership

 
 
 
 
 

Almelo, the Netherlands
 
132,000
 
Leased

Angleton, Texas
 
110,000
 
Owned

Ayudhaya, Thailand
 
281,000
 
Owned

Ayudhaya, Thailand
 
224,000
 
Owned

Brasov, Romania
 
131,000
 
Leased

Campinas, Brazil
 
49,000
 
Leased

Concord, California
 
77,000
 
Leased

Dunseith, North Dakota
 
45,000
 
Owned

Dunseith, North Dakota
 
51,000
 
Leased

Freemont, California
 
52,000
 
Leased

Guadalajara, Mexico
 
214,000
 
Leased

Guaymas, Mexico
 
52,000
 
Leased

Huntsville, Alabama
 
180,000
 
Owned

Korat, Thailand
 
126,000
 
Owned

Nashua, New Hampshire
 
154,000
 
Leased

Penang, Malaysia
 
103,000
 
Owned

Penang, Malaysia
 
190,000
 
Owned

Rochester, Minnesota
 
250,000
 
Leased

Suzhou, China
 
327,000
 
Owned

Singapore
 
72,000
 
Leased

Tempe, Arizona
 
52,000
 
Leased

Winona, Minnesota
 
181,000
 
Owned

 
 
 
 
 

Total
 
3,053,000
 
 

  
We lease other facilities with a total of 13,000 sq. ft. that
house individuals that provide engineering and procurement services. We also own facilities with a total of 366,000 sq. ft. and
lease facilities with a total of 125,000 sq. ft. that are currently not in operation.
 

25
 

 
 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 
We are involved in various legal actions arising in the ordinary
course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect
on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
 
Not applicable.
 
PART II
 
Item 5. Market
for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
 
Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol “BHE.” The following table shows the high and low sales prices for our common shares as reported on
the New York Stock Exchange for the quarters (or portions thereof) indicated.
 


  
 High  
 Low 

  
    
   

2012 
    
   

First quarter (through February 24, 2012) 
$18.87  
$13.65 

2011 
    
   

Fourth quarter 
$15.54  
$12.01 

Third quarter 
$17.04  
$12.03 

Second quarter 
$19.21  
$15.21 

First quarter 
$20.24  
$17.18 

2010 
    
   

Fourth quarter 
$18.40  
$15.89 

Third quarter 
$17.85  
$13.91 

Second quarter 
$22.82  
$15.80 

First quarter 
$22.02  
$17.67 

 
The last reported sale price of our common shares on February
24, 2012, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was $17.10. There were approximately 874 record holders of our common shares
as of February 24, 2012.
 
We have not paid any cash dividends on our common shares in
the past. In addition, our credit facility includes restrictions on the amount of dividends we may pay to shareholders. We currently
expect to retain future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends
in the foreseeable future.
 

26
 

 
 
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
The following table provides information about the Company’s
repurchases of its equity securities that are registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act during the quarter ended December
31, 2011, at a total cost of $3.1 million:
 


  
   
   
   
(d) Maximum 

  
   
   
(c) Total  
Number (or 

  
   
   
Number of  
Approximate 

  
   
   
Shares (or  
Dollar Value) 

  
   
   
Units)  
of Shares (or 

  
   
   
Purchased as  
Units) that 

  
(a) Total  
   
Part of  
May Yet Be 

  
Number of  
(b) Average  
Publicly  
Purchased 

  
Shares (or  
Price Paid per  
Announced  
Under the 

  
Units)  
Share (or  
Plans or  
Plans or 

Period 
Purchased
    (1)  
Unit) (2)  
Programs  
Programs (3) 

  
    
    
    
   

October 1 to 31, 2011 
 162,794  
$13.54  
 162,794  
$ 36.0 million 

November 1 to 30, 2011 
 —  
 —  
 —  
$36.0 million 

December 1 to 31, 2011 
 65,000  
$13.59  
 65,000  
$ 35.1 million 

  
    
    
    
   

Total 
 227,794  
$13.55  
 227,794  
   

 
(1) All share repurchases were made on the open
market.
 
(2) Average price paid per share is calculated on
a settlement basis and excludes commission.
 
(3) On March 3, 2010, the Board of Directors of
the Company approved the repurchase of up to $100 million of the Company’s outstanding common shares. Share purchases may
be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or block transactions, at the discretion of the Company’s
management and as market conditions warrant. Purchases will be funded from available cash and may be commenced, suspended or discontinued
at any time without prior notice. Shares repurchased under the program will be retired.
 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company repurchased
a total of 3.7 million common shares for $56.3 million at an average price of $15.13 per share. All share purchases were made in
the open market and the shares repurchased through December 31, 2011 were retired.
 

27
 

  
Performance Graph
The following Performance Graph compares the cumulative total
shareholder return on our common shares for the five-year period commencing December 31, 2006 and ending December 31,
2011, with the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index (which does not include Benchmark),
and the Peer Group Index, which is composed of Celestica Inc., Suntron Corp, Flextronics International, Ltd., Jabil Circuit, Inc.,
Plexus Corp and Sanmina-SCI Corp. Dividend reinvestment has been assumed.
 

 


  
 Dec-06  
 Dec-07  
 Dec-08  
 Dec-09  
 Dec-10  
 Dec-11 

  
    
    
    
    
    
   

Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 
$100.00  
$72.80  
$52.40  
$77.60  
$74.50  
$55.30 

Peer Group 
$100.00  
$84.80  
$28.60  
$72.50  
$79.00  
$65.10 

S&P500 
$100.00  
$103.50  
$63.70  
$78.60  
$88.70  
$88.70 

 
NOTES:	 Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2006 in Benchmark
Electronics, Inc. Common Shares, in the S&P 500, and in the Peer Group Index. Reflects month-end dividend reinvestment, and
annual reweighting of the Peer Group Index portfolios.
 

28
 

  
Item 6. Selected Financial Data
  



  
Year Ended December 31, 

(in thousands, except per share data) 
2011  
2010(1)  
2009(1)  
2008  
2007 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Selected Statements of Income (Loss) Data  
    
    
    
   

Sales 
$2,253,030  
$2,402,143  
$2,089,253  
$2,590,167  
$2,915,919 

Cost of sales 
 2,114,195  
 2,214,728  
 1,943,188  
 2,414,231  
 2,717,425 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 138,835  
 187,415  
 146,065  
 175,936  
 198,494 

Selling, general and administrative  expenses 
 89,665  
 92,245  
 85,500  
 92,154  
 96,614 

Restructuring charges and integration costs (2) 
 4,515  
 6,724  
 8,264  
 2,780  
 11,581 

Thailand flood related charges, net of insurance (3) 
 3,362  
 —  
 —  
 —  
 — 

Goodwill impairment (4) 
 —  
 —  
 —  
 247,482  
 — 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Income (loss) from operations 
 41,293  
 88,446  
 52,301  
 (166,480) 
 90,299 

Interest expense 
 (1,327) 
 (1,362) 
 (1,399) 
 (1,455) 
 (2,183)

Interest income 
 1,768  
 1,621  
 2,210  
 8,675  
 11,217 

Other income (expense) 
 (602) 
 (1,689) 
 (1,705) 
 1,772  
 693 

Income tax expense (benefit) (5) 
 (10,827) 
 7,258  
 (1,974) 
 (21,856) 
 7,670 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Net income (loss) 
$51,959  
$79,758  
$53,381  
$(135,632) 
$92,356 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Earnings (loss) per share: (6) 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
$0.88  
$1.28  
$0.82  
$(2.02) 
$1.28 

Diluted 
$0.87  
$1.27  
$0.82  
$(2.02) 
$1.27 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Weighted-average number of shares outstanding: 
    
    
    
    
   

Basic 
 59,284  
 62,141  
 64,758  
 67,060  
 72,061 

Diluted 
 59,773  
 62,692  
 65,116  
 67,060  
 72,829 


 


  
December 31, 

(in thousands) 
2011  
2010(1)  
2009(1)  
2008  
2007 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Selected Balance Sheet Data 
    
    
    
    
   

Working capital 
$849,051  
$891,637  
$852,896  
$813,035  
$870,003 

Total assets 
 1,499,998  
 1,477,068  
 1,465,206  
 1,433,040  
 1,748,864 

Total debt 
 11,019  
 11,381  
 11,681  
 11,939  
 12,526 

Shareholders’ equity 
$1,115,748  
$1,119,225  
$1,090,389  
$1,050,574  
$1,283,367 

 

(1)See Note 1(q) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the correction of an immaterial
error related to costs incorrectly capitalized to inventory and accounting for consigned inventory.

(2)See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the restructuring charges
and integration costs occurring in 2011, 2010 and 2009. During 2008 and 2007, the Company recognized restructuring charges totaling
$2.8 million and $11.6 million related to reductions in workforce and the resizing and closure of certain facilities.

(3)See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of Thailand flood related charges,
net of insurance.

(4)During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge totaling
$247.5 million.

(5)See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of income taxes. During the third
quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a $3.4 million discrete tax benefit related to a previously closed facility. During the third
quarter of 2007, the Company recorded a $6.5 million discrete tax benefit related to a previously closed facility.

(6)See Note 1(j) to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the basis of computing earnings (loss)
per share.
 


29
 


 
Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
References in this report to “the Company,” “Benchmark,”
“we,” or “us” mean Benchmark Electronics, Inc. together with its subsidiaries. The following Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains certain forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
These forward-looking statements are identified as any statement that does not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “plan,” “projection,”
“forecast,” “strategy,” “position,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,”
“may,” “will,” or the negative of those terms or other variations of them or comparable terminology. In
particular, statements, express or implied, concerning future operating results or the ability to generate sales, income or cash
flow are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. They involve risks, uncertainties
and assumptions, including those discussed under Item 1A of this report. The future results of our operations may differ materially
from those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our
ability to control or predict. Undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements. Should one or more of these
risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from
those indicated.
 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto in Item 8 of this report.
 
OVERVIEW
 
We are a worldwide provider of integrated electronic manufacturing
services. We provide our services to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of computers and related products for business enterprises,
medical devices, industrial control equipment (which includes equipment for the aerospace and defense industry), testing and instrumentation
products, and telecommunication equipment. The services that we provide are commonly referred to as electronics manufacturing services
(EMS). We offer our customers comprehensive and integrated design and manufacturing services from initial product design to volume
production including direct order fulfillment and post deployment services. Our manufacturing and assembly operations include printed
circuit boards and subsystem assembly, box build and systems integration, the process of integrating subsystems and, often, downloading
and integrating software, to produce a fully configured product. Our recently added precision technology manufacturing capabilities
complement our proven electronic manufacturing expertise by providing further vertical integration of critical mechanical components.
These capabilities include precision machining, advanced metal joining, and functional testing for multiple industries including
medical, instrumentation, aerospace and semiconductor capital equipment. We also are able to provide specialized engineering services,
including product design, printed circuit board layout, prototyping, and test development. We believe that we have developed strengths
in the manufacturing process for large, complex, high-density printed circuit boards as well as the ability to manufacture high
and low volume products in lower cost regions such as Brazil, China, Malaysia, Mexico, Romania and Thailand.
 
During the past several years, we have made the necessary changes
to align our business operations with our customers’ demand. These changes include, among other activities, moving production
between facilities, reducing staff levels, realigning our business processes and reorganizing our management. During the year ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized $4.5 million, $6.7 million and $8.3 million (pre-tax) of restructuring
charges, primarily related to the closure of facilities, capacity reductions and costs associated with involuntary termination
of employees in connection with reductions in workforce of certain facilities worldwide.
 

30
 


 
We believe that our global manufacturing presence increases
our ability to be responsive to our customers’ needs by providing accelerated time-to-market and time-to-volume production
of high quality products. These capabilities enable us to build stronger strategic relationships with our customers and to become
a more integral part of their operations. Our customers face challenges in planning, procuring and managing their inventories efficiently
due to customer demand fluctuations, product design changes, short product life cycles and component price fluctuations. We employ
production management systems to manage their procurement and manufacturing processes in an efficient and cost-effective manner
so that, where possible, components arrive on a just-in-time, as-and-when-needed basis. We are a significant purchaser of electronic
components and other raw materials, and can capitalize on the economies of scale associated with our relationships with suppliers
to negotiate price discounts, obtain components and other raw materials that are in short supply, and return excess components.
Our expertise in supply chain management and our relationships with suppliers across the supply chain enables us to reduce our
customers’ cost of goods sold and inventory exposure.
 
We recognize revenue from the sale of manufactured products
built to customer specifications and excess inventory when title and risk of ownership have passed, the price to the buyer
is fixed and determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured, which generally is when the goods are shipped.
Revenue from design, development and engineering services is recognized when the services are performed and collectibility
is reasonably certain. Such services provided under fixed price contracts are accounted for using the percentage of completion
method. We generally assume no significant obligations after product shipment as we typically warrant workmanship only. Therefore,
our warranty provisions are generally not significant.
 
Our cost of sales includes the cost of materials, electronic
components and other materials that comprise the products we manufacture, the cost of labor and manufacturing overhead, and adjustments
for excess and obsolete inventory. Our procurement of materials for production requires us to commit significant working capital
to our operations and to manage the purchasing, receiving, inspection and stocking of materials. Although we bear the risk of fluctuations
in the cost of materials and excess scrap, we periodically negotiate cost of materials adjustments with our customers. Our gross
margin for any product depends on the sales price, the proportionate mix of the cost of materials in the product and the cost of
labor and manufacturing overhead allocated to the product. We typically have the potential to realize higher gross margins on products
where the proportionate level of labor and manufacturing overhead is greater than that of materials. As we gain experience in manufacturing
a product, we usually achieve increased efficiencies, which result in lower labor and manufacturing overhead costs for that product
and higher gross margins. Our operating results are impacted by the level of capacity utilization of manufacturing facilities.
Operating income margins have generally improved during periods of high production volume and high capacity utilization. During
periods of low production volume, we generally have idle capacity and reduced operating income margins.
 
Severe Flooding in Thailand and Suspension of Thailand
Operations
Our facilities in Ayudhaya, Thailand were flooded and remained
closed from October 13, 2011 to December 20, 2011. As a result of the flooding and temporary closing of our facilities, we recognized
estimated property losses of $46.2 million and incurred $13.4 million of flood related costs in 2011. We carry property and business
interruption insurance that we believe is appropriate and adequate for this situation. Our combined limit for real and personal
property as well as business interruption insurance is approximately $300 million. As such, we have recorded estimated recoveries
from insurance for these property losses and flood related costs totaling $56.2 million.
 
As of December 31, 2011,
Thailand flood related charges, net of insurance recoveries, were as follows (in thousands):
 


Inventory losses 
$39,919 

Property, plant and equipment losses 
 6,233 

Other flood related costs 
 13,362 

  
   

  
 59,514 

Estimated insurance recoveries recorded in prepaid expenses and other assets 
 (56,152)

  
   

  
$3,362 

 


31
 


 
The Ayudhaya, Thailand facilities are among our largest, generating
approximately 24% of our revenue in the first nine months of 2011. As a result, the impact on revenue and operations was significant
in the fourth quarter of 2011 and will be significant for the next several fiscal quarters. We are managing the situation on an
on-going basis and are working to mitigate the impact to us and our customers.
 
We and our customers implemented contingency and recovery plans
as a result of the flood to help enable us to meet customer needs. As part of those plans, we restarted production at our Korat,
Thailand facility in November 2011, and we shifted production from our Ayudhaya facilities to our various other sites around the
globe. As a result of the capital purchases associated with our contingency and recovery plans, we incurred approximately $10 million
in capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of 2011 and expect to incur up to $25 million in the first half of 2012.
 
Summary of 2011 Results
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased 6% to
$2.3 billion compared to $2.4 billion in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to reduced demand from customers in addition to the
Thailand flood. During the year ended December 31, 2011, sales to customers in the medical devices industry, testing and instrumentation
industry, computers and related products for business enterprises industry, and telecommunication equipment industry decreased
16%, 15%, 13% and 3%, respectively, from 2010. These decreases were partially offset by an 8% increase in sales to customers in
the industrial control equipment industry during the same period.
 
Our future sales are dependent on the success of our customers,
some of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change and consequent product obsolescence. Developments
adverse to our major customers or their products, or the failure of a major customer to pay for components or services, could have
an adverse effect on us. A substantial percentage of our sales have been made to a small number of customers, and the loss of a
major customer, if not replaced, would adversely affect us. Sales to our ten largest customers represented 53% and 47% of our sales
in 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2011, sales to International Business Machines Corporation represented 14% of our sales. No
one customer represented 10% or more of our sales in 2010.
 
Our gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased to 6.2%
for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 7.8% in the same period of 2010 primarily due to lower sales volumes, product mix, new
program ramp costs and capacity expansion costs, primarily in Asia, in addition to the impact of the Thailand flooding. We experience
fluctuations in gross profit from period to period. Different programs contribute different gross profits depending on factors
such as the types of services involved, location of production, size of the program, complexity of the product and level of material
costs associated with the various products. Moreover, new programs can contribute relatively less to our gross profit in their
early stages when manufacturing volumes are usually lower, resulting in inefficiencies and unabsorbed manufacturing overhead costs.
In addition, a number of our new and higher volume programs remain subject to competitive constraints that could exert downward
pressure on our margins. During periods of low production volume, we generally have idle capacity and reduced gross profit.
 
We have undertaken initiatives to restructure our business
operations with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. During the year ended December
31, 2011, the Company recognized $4.5 million (pre-tax) of restructuring charges, primarily related to capacity reduction
and reductions in workforce of certain facilities worldwide, primarily in Europe in connection with the closure of the Dublin,
Ireland facility.
 
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
AND ESTIMATES
Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition
and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make
estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure
of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to accounts receivable,
inventories, income taxes, long-lived assets, stock-based compensation and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates
on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results
of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies
affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.
 

32
 


 
Allowance for doubtful accounts
Our accounts receivable balance is recorded net of allowances
for amounts not expected to be collected from our customers. Because our accounts receivable are typically unsecured, we periodically
evaluate the collectibility of our accounts based on a combination of factors, including a particular customer’s ability
to pay as well as the age of the receivables. To evaluate a specific customer’s ability to pay, we analyze financial statements,
payment history, third-party credit analysis reports and various information or disclosures by the customer or other publicly available
information. In cases where the evidence suggests a customer may not be able to satisfy its obligation to us, we set up a specific
allowance in an amount we determine appropriate for the perceived risk. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate,
resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required.
 
Inventory obsolescence reserve
We purchase inventory based on forecasted demand and record
inventory at the lower of cost or market. We reserve for estimated obsolescence as necessary in an amount equal to the difference
between the cost of inventory and estimated market value based on assumptions of future demands and market conditions. We evaluate
our inventory valuation on a quarterly basis based on current and forecasted usage and the latest forecasts of product demand and
production requirements from our customers. Customers frequently make changes to their forecasts, requiring us to make changes
to our inventory purchases, commitments, and production scheduling and may require us to cancel open purchase commitments with
our vendors. This process may lead to on-hand inventory quantities and on-order purchase commitments that are in excess of our
customers’ revised needs, or parts that become obsolete before use in production. In addition, shifting production from Ayudhaya,
Thailand to Korat, Thailand and various other sites around the globe as a result of the severe flooding in Thailand may lead to
on-hand inventory quantities in excess of our customers’ needs. We record inventory reserves on excess and obsolete inventory.
These reserves are established on inventory which we have determined our customers are not responsible for or on inventory which
we believe our customers will be unable to fulfill their obligation to ultimately purchase. If actual market conditions are less
favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required.
 
Income Taxes
We estimate our income tax provision in each of the jurisdictions
in which we operate, including estimating exposures related to uncertain tax positions. We must also make judgments regarding the
ability to realize the deferred tax assets. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that
is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning
strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we were to subsequently determine that we would be able
to realize our deferred tax assets in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would increase
income in the period such determination was made. Similarly, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part
of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would reduce income in the period such determination
was made.
 
During 2011, we evaluated the recoverability of our deferred
tax assets using the criteria described above and concluded that our projected future taxable income in the U.S. is sufficient
to utilize additional net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. As a result, we reduced our valuation allowance
by $19.1 million in the U.S. and, at the same time, decreased our valuation allowance by $1.5 million in foreign jurisdictions.
 

33
 


 
We are subject to examination by tax authorities for varying
periods in various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. During the course of such examinations, disputes may occur as to matters
of fact and/or law. In most tax jurisdictions the passage of time without examination will result in the expiration of applicable
statutes of limitations, thereby precluding the taxing authority from conducting an examination of the tax period(s) for which
such statute of limitations has expired. We believe that we have adequately provided for our tax liabilities.
 
Our subsidiary in Thailand has filed for a refund of $8.2 million
of previously paid income taxes, which is included in other assets. The Thailand tax authorities are currently conducting an examination
of the applicable filings. During the third quarter of 2011, we recorded a reserve for uncertain tax benefits of $7.1 million against
this receivable.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, such as property, plant, and equipment,
and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a
comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge would be recognized
by the amount that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.
 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, and is tested for
impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss would be recognized
to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. Goodwill is measured at the reporting unit level,
which we have determined to be consistent with our operating segments as defined in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
in Item 8 of this report, by determining the fair values of the reporting units and comparing those fair values to the carrying
values, including goodwill, of the reporting unit. We determined the fair value of our reporting units, with the assistance of
an independent valuation firm, based upon a combination of the income approach (discounted cash flow method) and market approach
(market comparable model) methodologies. In concluding on the fair value estimates of our reporting units in 2011, 2010 and 2009,
the income approach was given a 75% weighting and the market approach was given a 25% weighting based on the quality and suitability
of information available in performing the income approach, relative to the market approach.
 
The income approach methodology utilized in estimating the
fair value of our reporting units for purposes of the goodwill impairment testing required various judgmental assumptions about
revenues, operating margins, growth rates, working capital requirements and appropriate discount rate. In determining those judgmental
assumptions, we considered a variety of data, including—for each reporting unit—its annual budget for the upcoming
year, its longer-term business plan, anticipated future cash flows, market data, and historical cash flow growth rates. The key
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units under the discounted cash flow method were (i) projected revenue
growth over a ten-year period and the annual compounded average growth rate; (ii) projected operating margins over a ten-year
period; and (iii) a weighted-average cost of capital.
 
Under the market approach, the value of our reporting units
was estimated by comparing it to publicly-traded firms in similar lines of business and geographic markets. The market approach
takes into account, among other things, the market value of total invested capital to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization (EBITDA) multiples of comparable companies adjusted to reflect differences in size and growth prospects. The
selected multiples were then applied to the present value of our reporting unit’s projected EBITDA to arrive at an indicated
range of value. This value was then adjusted for a control premium of 25% in 2011, 30% in 2010 and 35% in 2009 based on a review
of premiums paid for companies similar in nature to our reporting units and then adjusted for any working capital requirement
excess (deficit) to determine a final value under the market approach.
 


34
 

 
Changes
in economic and operating conditions that occur after the annual impairment analysis or an interim impairment analysis, and that
impact these assumptions, may result in a future goodwill impairment charge. As of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we had goodwill
associated with our Asia business segment of approximately $37.9 million. Based on the results of our annual impairment tests
performed during the fourth quarters of 2011, 2010 and 2009, no impairment existed as of December 31, 2011, 2010 or 2009. We estimated
that the fair value of our Asia business segment exceeded its carrying amount by approximately 25%, 117% and 147%, respectively,
at the time our 2011, 2010 and 2009 impairment tests were performed. The decrease in 2011 is primarily a result of the Thailand
flood. Circumstances that may lead to future impairment of goodwill include unforeseen decreases in future performance or industry
demand, the restructuring of our operations as a result of a change in our business strategy or other factors.
 
Stock-Based Compensation
We recognize stock-based compensation expense in our consolidated
statements of income. The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model. Option-pricing models require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the option and the expected
stock price volatility. Judgment is also required in estimating the number of stock-based awards that are expected to vest as a
result of satisfaction of time-based vesting schedules. If actual results or future changes in estimates differ significantly from
our current estimates, stock-based compensation could increase or decrease. For restricted stock unit awards with performance conditions,
compensation expense is initially based on the target number of shares that would vest if 100% of the target performance goal is
achieved, which was considered the probable outcome on the grant date. Throughout the service period, management monitors the probability
of achievement of the performance condition. If it becomes probable, based on our expectation of performance during the measurement
period, that more or less than the current estimate of the awarded shares will vest, an adjustment to stock-based compensation
expense will be recognized as a change in accounting estimate. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of
this report.
 
Recently Enacted Accounting Principles
See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
8 of this report for a discussion of recently enacted accounting principles.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
The following table presents the percentage relationship that
certain items in our Consolidated Statements of Income bear to sales for the periods indicated. The financial information and the
discussion below should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto in Item 8 of this report.


  
Year ended December 31, 

  
2011  
2010  
2009 

  
   
   
  

Sales 
 100.0% 
 100.0% 
 100.0%

Cost of sales 
 93.8  
 92.2  
 93.0 

  
    
    
   

Gross profit 
 6.2  
 7.8  
 7.0 

Selling, general and administrative expenses 
 4.0  
 3.8  
 4.1 

Restructuring charges and integration costs 
 0.2  
 0.3  
 0.4 

Thailand flood related charges, net of insurance 
 0.1  
 —  
 — 

  
    
    
   

Income from operations 
 1.8  
 3.7  
 2.5 

Other income, net 
 (0.0) 
 (0.1) 
 (0.0)

  
    
    
   

Income before income taxes 
 1.8  
 3.6  
 2.5 

Income tax expense (benefit) 
 (0.5) 
 0.3  
 (0.1)

  
    
    
   

Net income 
 2.3% 
 3.3% 
 2.6%

 

35
 

 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011 Compared With Year Ended
December 31, 2010
 
Sales
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased 6% to
$2.3 billion compared to $2.4 billion in 2010. This decrease is primarily due to reduced demand from customers in addition to the
Thailand flood. The following table sets forth the percentages of our sales by industry for 2011 and 2010.
 


  
2011  
2010 

  
   
  

Computers and related products for business enterprises 
 29% 
 32%

Industrial control equipment 
 29  
 25 

Telecommunication equipment 
 23  
 23 

Testing and instrumentation products 
 10  
 10 

Medical devices 
 9  
 10 

  
    
   

  
 100% 
 100%

 
During the year ended December 31, 2011, sales to customers
in the medical devices industry, testing and instrumentation industry, computers and related products for business enterprises
industry, and telecommunication equipment industry decreased 16%, 15%, 13% and 3%, respectively, from 2010. These decreases were
partially offset by an 8% increase in sales to customers in the industrial control equipment industry during the same period.
 
Our future sales are dependent on the success of our customers,
some of which operate in businesses associated with rapid technological change and consequent product obsolescence. Developments
adverse to our major customers or their products, or the failure of a major customer to pay for components or services, could have
an adverse effect on us. Adverse worldwide economic conditions have impacted our customers. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this report.
 
A substantial percentage of our sales have been made to a small
number of customers, and the loss of a major customer, if not replaced, would adversely affect us. Sales to our ten largest customers
represented 53% and 47% of our sales in 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2011, sales to International Business Machines Corporation
represented 14% of our sales. No one customer represented 10% or more of our sales in 2010.
 
Our international operations are subject to the risks of doing
business abroad. See Item 1A for factors pertaining to our international sales and fluctuations in the exchange rates of foreign
currency and for further discussion of potential adverse effects in operating results associated with the risks of doing business
abroad. During 2011 and 2010, 51% and 48%, respectively, of our sales were from our international operations.
 
We had a backlog of approximately $1.6 billion at December
31, 2011, as compared to the 2010 year-end backlog of $1.5 billion. Backlog consists of purchase orders received, including, in
some instances, forecast requirements released for production under customer contracts. Although we expect to fill substantially
all of our backlog at December 31, 2011 during 2012, we do not have long-term agreements with all of our customers and customer
orders can be canceled, changed or delayed by customers. The timely replacement of canceled, changed or delayed orders with orders
from new customers cannot be assured, nor can there be any assurance that any of our current customers will continue to utilize
our services. Because of these factors, backlog is not a meaningful indicator of future financial results.
 

36
 

 
 
Gross Profit
Gross profit decreased 26% to $138.8 million for 2011 from
$187.4 million in 2010. The impact on revenue and operations from the flooding in Thailand was significant in the fourth quarter
of 2011. In addition to the lower sales volume and the resulting under-absorbed manufacturing overhead costs, the decrease in gross
profit was also a result of $4.4 million of settlement costs associated with the transfer of a major program, new program ramp
costs and capacity expansion costs, primarily in Asia, incurred in 2011. Our gross profit as a percentage of sales decreased to
6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 7.8% in the same period of 2010 primarily due to lower sales volumes, product mix,
new program ramp costs and capacity expansion costs, primarily in Asia, which resulted in under-absorbed manufacturing overhead
costs, as well as the settlement costs noted above. We experience fluctuations in gross profit from period to period. Different
programs contribute different gross profits depending on factors such as the types of services involved, location of production,
size of the program, complexity of the product, and level of material costs associated with the various products. Moreover, new
programs can contribute relatively less to our gross profit in their early stages when manufacturing volumes are usually lower,
resulting in inefficiencies and under-absorbed manufacturing overhead costs. In addition, a number of our new and higher volume
programs remain subject to competitive constraints that could exert downward pressure on our margins. During periods of low production
volume, we generally have idle capacity and reduced gross profit.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 3% to
$89.7 million in 2011 from $92.2 million in 2010 primarily due to reduced stock-based compensation expenses, decreased overhead
resulting from cost controls and lower variable compensation expenses, which were partially offset by higher other employee related
costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 4.0% and 3.8%, respectively, for 2011 and 2010.
The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales is due to the impact of lower sales volumes
during 2011.
 
Restructuring Charges
We recognized $4.5 million in restructuring charges during
2011 primarily related to the decision to close our Dublin, Ireland facility.
 
The recognition of the restructuring charges requires that
we make certain judgments and estimates regarding the nature, timing and amount of costs associated with planned exit activities.
To the extent our actual results in exiting these facilities differ from our estimates and assumptions, we may be required to revise
the estimates of future liabilities, requiring the recognition of additional restructuring charges or the reduction of liabilities
already recognized. At the end of each reporting period, we evaluate the remaining accrued balances to ensure that no excess accruals
are retained and the utilization of the provisions are for their intended purpose in accordance with developed exit plans. See
Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
 
Thailand Flood Related Charges, Net of Insurance
We recognized $3.4 million in Thailand flood related charges,
net of estimated insurance recoveries during the fourth quarter of 2011. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
in Item 8 of this report.
 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
Income tax benefit of $10.8 million represented a negative
effective tax rate of 26.3% for 2011, compared with income tax expense of $7.3 million at an effective tax rate of 8.3% for the
same period in 2010. In 2011, we recorded a $0.6 million tax benefit as a result of a 2010 tax rate incentive received by one of
our China subsidiaries during the first quarter of 2011, a $19.1 million tax benefit as a result of a decrease in valuation allowances
on deferred tax assets in the U.S., a $2.7 million tax benefit related to the settlement of income tax audits, and $1.5 million
in decreased valuation allowances for foreign net operating loss carryforwards. These decreases in income tax expense were offset
by $7.1 million of additional reserves for uncertain tax benefits. In 2010, we recorded a $10.5 million tax benefit as a result
of a decrease in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in the U.S., and a $1.4 million tax benefit as a result of the expiration
of the statute of limitations primarily related to an intercompany transaction between two of our subsidiaries. Excluding these
tax benefits, the effective tax rate would have been 14.7% in 2011 compared to 22.0% in 2010. This decrease in the effective tax
rate is primarily due to a shift in the proportion of the consolidated taxable income earned in jurisdictions taxed at lower tax
rates, an increase in tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions and the reduced tax rate in China for one of our subsidiaries
during 2011. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
 


37
 

 
 
Net Income
We reported net income of approximately $52.0 million, or $0.87
per diluted share for 2011, compared with net income of approximately $79.8 million, or $1.27 per diluted share for 2010. The net
decrease of $27.8 million in 2011 was due to the factors discussed above.
 
Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared With Year Ended
December 31, 2009
 
Sales
Sales for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 15% to
$2.4 billion compared to $2.1 billion in 2009. The following table sets forth the percentages of our sales by industry for 2010
and 2009.
 


  
2010  
2009 

  
   
  

Computers and related products for business enterprises 
 32% 
 39%

Industrial control equipment 
 25  
 20 

Telecommunication equipment 
 23  
 23 

Medical devices 
 10  
 14 

Testing and instrumentation products 
 10  
 4 

  
    
   

  
 100% 
 100%

 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, sales to customers
in the testing and instrumentation products industry, industrial control equipment industry and telecommunication equipment industry
increased 193%, 41% and 11%, respectively, from 2009. These increases were partially offset by a 7% decrease in sales to customers
in computers and related products for business enterprises industry and an 11% decrease in sales to customers in the medical devices
industry.
 
During 2010 and 2009, 48% and 47%, respectively, of our sales
were from our international operations.
 
We had a backlog of approximately $1.5 billion at December
31, 2010, as compared to the 2009 year-end backlog of $1.2 billion.
 
Gross Profit
Gross profit increased 28% to $187.4 million for 2010 from
$146.1 million in 2009 primarily due to an increase in sales. Gross profit as a percentage of sales increased to 7.8% in 2010 from
7.0% during 2009 primarily due to a better product mix, our operating efficiencies and a better capacity utilization rate due to
the higher level of sales.
 
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 8% to
$92.2 million in 2010 from $85.5 million in 2009. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is primarily due
to resources necessary to support our customers’ higher sales volumes in 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses,
as a percentage of sales, were 3.8% and 4.1%, respectively, for 2010 and 2009. The decrease in selling, general and administrative
expenses as a percentage of sales is primarily associated with the impact of higher sales volumes during 2010.
 
Restructuring Charges
We recognized $6.7 million in restructuring charges during
2010 related to capacity reduction and reductions in workforce in certain facilities worldwide.
 

38
 


 
Income Tax Expense (Benefit)
Income tax expense of $7.3 million represented an effective
tax rate of 8.3% for 2010, compared with income tax benefit of $2.0 million at an effective tax rate of negative 3.8% for the same
period in 2009. In 2010, we recorded a $10.5 million tax benefit as a result of a decrease in valuation allowances on deferred
tax assets in the U.S., and a $1.4 million tax benefit as a result of the expiration of the statute of limitations primarily related
to an intercompany transaction between two of our subsidiaries. In the third quarter of 2009, we recorded a benefit related to
a previously closed facility that generated a worthless stock deduction of $2.7 million, a tax benefit related to a revaluation
loss in Mexico of $2.4 million and tax benefits totaling $1.9 million primarily related to intercompany pricing deductions.
Excluding these tax benefits, the effective tax rate would have been 22.0% in 2010 compared to 9.8% in 2009. The increase in the
effective tax rate is primarily due to a shift in the proportion of the consolidated taxable income earned in jurisdictions taxed
at higher tax rates and a decrease in tax incentives in certain foreign locations in 2010. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this report.
 
Net Income
We reported net income of approximately $79.8 million, or $1.27
per diluted share for 2010, compared with net income of approximately $53.4 million, or $0.82 per diluted share for 2009. The net
increase of $26.4 million in 2010 was due to the factors discussed above.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We have historically financed our growth and operations through
funds generated from operations and proceeds from the sale and maturity of our investments. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $283.9
million at December 31, 2011 and $346.3 million at December 31, 2010, of which $195.9 million at December 31, 2011 and $241.6 million
at December 31, 2010 was held outside the U.S. in various foreign subsidiaries. Substantially all of the amounts held outside of
the U.S. are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and
cash equivalents held outside the U.S. were to be distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject
to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes.
 
	Cash provided by operating activities was $54.8 million
in 2011. The cash provided by operations during 2011 consisted primarily of net income of $52.0 million adjusted for $35.5 million
of depreciation and amortization, $46.5 million of asset impairments, a $27.7 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $12.1
decrease in prepaid expense and other assets and a $28.4 million increase in accounts payable offset by a $56.2 million insurance
receivable, a $72.7 million increase in inventories and $18.0 million of deferred income taxes. Working capital was $849.0
million at December 31, 2011 and $891.6 million at December 31, 2010.
 
We are continuing the practice of purchasing components only
after customer orders or forecasts are received, which mitigates, but does not eliminate, the risk of loss on inventories. Supplies
of electronic components and other materials used in operations are subject to industry-wide shortages. In certain instances, suppliers
may allocate available quantities to us. If shortages of these components and other material supplies used in operations occur,
vendors may not ship the quantities we need for production and we may be forced to delay shipments, which would increase backorders
and therefore impact cash flows.
 
Cash used in investing activities was $60.5 million for the
year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to the purchases of additional property, plant and equipment totaling $71.4 million,
offset by redemptions of investments totaling $11.2 million. Purchases of additional property, plant and equipment consisted primarily
of facilities and certain other assets to expand our precision technologies capabilities in Penang, Malaysia and purchases associated
with contingency and recovery plans implemented as a result of the severe flooding in Thailand which caused the temporary closing
of our Ayudhaya, Thailand facilities.
 
Cash used in financing activities was $54.1 million for the
year ended December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, share repurchases totaled $56.3 million and we received
$2.6 million from the exercise of stock options.
 

39
 


 
Under the terms of a credit agreement (the U.S. Credit Agreement),
we have a $100.0 million five-year revolving credit facility to be used for general corporate purposes with a maturity date of
December 21, 2012. The U.S. Credit Agreement includes an accordion feature under which total commitments under the facility may
be increased by an additional $100 million, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and lender approval. Interest on outstanding
borrowings under the U.S. Credit Agreement is payable quarterly, at our option, at LIBOR plus 0.75% to 1.75% or a prime rate plus
0.00% to 0.25%, based upon our debt ratio as specified in the U.S. Credit Agreement. A commitment fee of 0.15% to 0.35% per annum
(based upon our debt ratio) on the unused portion of the revolving credit line is payable quarterly in arrears. As of December
31, 2011 and 2010, we had no borrowings outstanding under the U.S. Credit Agreement and $100.0 million was available for future
borrowings.
 
The U.S. Credit Agreement is secured by our domestic inventory
and accounts receivable, 100% of the stock of our domestic subsidiaries, and 65% of the voting capital stock of each direct foreign
subsidiary and substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ other tangible and intangible assets. The U.S. Credit
Agreement contains customary financial covenants as to working capital, debt leverage, fixed charges and consolidated net worth,
and restricts our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends, repurchase shares, sell assets and merge or consolidate with
other persons. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we were in compliance with all such covenants and restrictions.
 
Our Thailand subsidiary has a multi-purpose credit facility
with Kasikornbank Public Company Limited (the Thai Credit Facility) that provides for approximately $11.1 million (350 million
Thai baht) in working capital availability. The Thai Credit Facility is secured by land and buildings in Thailand. The availability
of funds under the Thai Credit Facility is reviewed annually and is currently accessible through October 2012. As of December 31,
2011 and 2010, our Thailand subsidiary had no working capital borrowings outstanding.
 
Our operations, and the operations of businesses we acquire,
are subject to certain foreign, federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, waste management, health
and safety matters. We believe we operate in substantial compliance with all applicable requirements and we seek to ensure that
newly acquired businesses comply or will comply substantially with applicable requirements. To date, the costs of compliance and
workplace and environmental remediation have not been material to us. However, material costs and liabilities may arise from these
requirements or from new, modified or more stringent requirements in the future. In addition, our past, current and future operations,
and the operations of businesses we have or may acquire, may give rise to claims of exposure by employees or the public, or to
other claims or liabilities relating to environmental, waste management or health and safety concerns.
 
As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents totaling
$283.9 million and $100.0 million available for borrowings under the U.S. Credit Agreement. We expect that our cash position will
be adversely impacted by the expenditures related to recovery from the flooding of our facilities in Ayudhaya, Thailand. Specifically,
we anticipate our cash flow for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, and possibly beyond, to be negative. In addition to capital expenditures,
we expect to incur unusual charges and expenses related to the flooding, some of which will be cash charges and expenses. During
the next twelve months, we believe our capital expenditures will be approximately $30 to $35 million, principally for machinery
and equipment to support our ongoing business around the globe, excluding capital expenditures for the recovery and reinstatement
of our Thailand facilities which could be up to $25 million.
 
On March 3, 2010, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase
of up to $100 million of our outstanding common shares (the 2010 Repurchase Program). As of December 31, 2011, we have $35.1 million
remaining under the 2010 Repurchase Program to repurchase additional shares. We are under no commitment or obligation to repurchase
any particular amount of common shares. Management believes that our existing cash balances and funds generated from operations
will be sufficient to permit us to meet our liquidity requirements over the next twelve months. Management further believes that
our ongoing cash flows from operations and any borrowings we may incur under our credit facilities will enable us to meet operating
cash requirements in future years. Should we desire to consummate significant acquisition opportunities, our capital needs would
increase and could possibly result in our need to increase available borrowings under our revolving credit facility or access public
or private debt and equity markets. There can be no assurance, however, that we would be successful in raising additional debt
or equity on terms that we would consider acceptable.
 

40
 


 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
 
We have certain contractual obligations that extend out beyond
2012 under lease obligations and debt arrangements. Non-cancelable purchase commitments do not typically extend beyond the normal
lead-time of several weeks. Purchase orders beyond this time frame are typically cancelable. We do not utilize off-balance sheet
financing techniques other than traditional operating leases and we have not guaranteed the obligations of any entity that is not
one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. The total contractual cash obligations in existence at December 31, 2011 due pursuant to
contractual commitments are:
 


  
Payments due by period 

  
   
Less than  
1-3  
3-5  
More than 

(in thousands) 
Total  
1 year  
years  
years  
5 years 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Operating lease obligations 
$31,615  
$8,801  
$11,209  
$8,088  
$3,517 

Capital lease obligations 
 18,960  
 1,520  
 3,131  
 3,258  
 11,051 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Total obligations 
$50,575  
$10,321  
$14,340  
$11,346  
$14,568 

 
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31,
2011 including interest and penalties was $21.3 million. We have not provided a detailed estimate of the timing of future
cash outflows associated with the liabilities recognized in this balance due to the uncertainty of when the related tax settlements
may become due. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
 
As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any significant off-balance
sheet arrangements. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.
 

41
 

  
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk
 
Our international sales are a significant portion of our net
sales; we are exposed to risks associated with operating internationally, including the following:
 


 
•
Foreign currency exchange risk;

 
•
Import and export duties, taxes and regulatory changes;

 
•
Inflationary economies or currencies; and

 
•
Economic and political instability.

 
Additionally, some of our operations are in developing countries.
Certain events, including natural disasters, can impact the infrastructure of a developing country more severely than they would
impact the infrastructure of a developed country. A developing country can also take longer to recover from such events, which
could lead to delays in our ability to resume full operations.
 
We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any foreign currency hedges. In the future, significant transactions involving
our international operations may cause us to consider engaging in hedging transactions to attempt to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations
in foreign exchange rates. These exposures are primarily, but not limited to, vendor payments and intercompany balances in currencies
other than the currency in which our foreign operations primarily generate and expend cash. Our international operations in some
instances operate in a natural hedge because both operating expenses and a portion of sales are denominated in local currency.
Our sales are substantially denominated in U.S. dollars. Our foreign currency cash flows are generated in certain Asian and European
countries, Mexico and Brazil.
 
We are also exposed to market risk for changes in interest
rates, a portion of which relates to our invested cash balances. We do not use derivative financial instruments in our investing
activities. We place cash and cash equivalents and investments with various major financial institutions. We protect our invested
principal funds by limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. We mitigate default risk by generally investing in
investment grade securities. As of December 31, 2011, the outstanding amount in the long-term investment portfolio included $28.0 million
(par value) of auction rate securities with an average annual return of approximately 0.24%.
 


42
 

  
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
BENCHMARK ELECTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Balance Sheets
 



 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands, except for par value)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 

Current assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cash and cash equivalents
 
$
283,920
 
 
$
346,345
 

Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $1,094 and $586, respectively
 
 
425,936
 
 
 
455,930
 

Inventories, net
 
 
391,580
 
 
 
361,570
 

Prepaid expenses and other assets
 
 
84,723
 
 
 
43,979
 

Income taxes receivable
 
 
6,667
 
 
 
2,437
 

Deferred income taxes
 
 
8,175
 
 
 
3,850
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total current assets
 
 
1,201,001
 
 
 
1,214,111
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Long-term investments
 
 
24,673
 
 
 
35,297
 

Property, plant and equipment, net
 
 
163,660
 
 
 
127,442
 

Goodwill, net
 
 
37,912
 
 
 
37,912
 

Deferred income taxes
 
 
37,420
 
 
 
23,975
 

Other, net
 
 
35,332
 
 
 
38,331
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
1,499,998
 
 
$
1,477,068
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Liabilities and Shareholders’ Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Current liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Current installments of capital lease obligations
 
$
419
 
 
$
362
 

Accounts payable
 
 
285,671
 
 
 
258,422
 

Income taxes payable
 
 
5,224
 
 
 
4,846
 

Accrued liabilities
 
 
60,636
 
 
 
58,844
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total current liabilities
 
 
351,950
 
 
 
322,474
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Capital lease obligations, less current installments
 
 
10,600
 
 
 
11,019
 

Other long-term liabilities
 
 
21,700
 
 
 
24,350
 

Shareholders’ equity:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Preferred shares, $0.10 par value; 5,000 shares authorized, none issued
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Common shares, $0.10 par value; 145,000 shares authorized; issued – 57,902 and 61,196, respectively; outstanding – 57,791 and 61,085, respectively
 
 
5,779
 
 
 
6,109
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Additional paid-in capital
 
 
674,498
 
 
 
707,138
 

Retained earnings
 
 
449,193
 
 
 
413,212
 

Accumulated other comprehensive loss
 
 
(13,450
)
 
 
(6,962
)

Less treasury shares, at cost; 111 shares
 
 
(272
)
 
 
(272
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total shareholders’ equity
 
 
1,115,748
 
 
 
1,119,225
 

Commitments and contingencies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
1,499,998
 
 
$
1,477,068
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.

43
 

 
BENCHMARK ELECTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 



 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands, except per share data)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Sales
 
$
2,253,030
 
 
$
2,402,143
 
 
$
2,089,253
 

Cost of sales
 
 
2,114,195
 
 
 
2,214,728
 
 
 
1,943,188
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Gross profit
 
 
138,835
 
 
 
187,415
 
 
 
146,065
 

Selling, general and administrative expenses
 
 
89,665
 
 
 
92,245
 
 
 
85,500
 

Restructuring charges
 
 
4,515
 
 
 
6,724
 
 
 
8,264
 

Thailand flood related charges, net of insurance
 
 
3,362
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income from operations
 
 
41,293
 
 
 
88,446
 
 
 
52,301
 

Interest expense
 
 
(1,327
)
 
 
(1,362
)
 
 
(1,399
)

Interest income
 
 
1,768
 
 
 
1,621
 
 
 
2,210
 

Other expense
 
 
(602
)
 
 
(1,689
)
 
 
(1,705
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income before income taxes
 
 
41,132
 
 
 
87,016
 
 
 
51,407
 

Income tax expense (benefit)
 
 
(10,827
)
 
 
7,258
 
 
 
(1,974
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
$
51,959
 
 
$
79,758
 
 
$
53,381
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Earnings per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Basic
 
$
0.88
 
 
$
1.28
 
 
$
0.82
 

Diluted
 
$
0.87
 
 
$
1.27
 
 
$
0.82
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Weighted-average number of shares outstanding:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Basic
 
 
59,284
 
 
 
62,141
 
 
 
64,758
 

Diluted
 
 
59,773
 
 
 
62,692
 
 
 
65,116
 


 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.

44
 

 
BENCHMARK ELECTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive
Income
 



 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
$
51,959
 
 
$
79,758
 
 
$
53,381
 

Other comprehensive income (loss):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Foreign currency translation adjustments
 
 
(6,903
)
 
 
(2,318
)
 
 
4,393
 

Unrealized gain on investments, net of tax
 
 
526
 
 
 
536
 
 
 
924
 

Other
 
 
(111
)
 
 
(187
)
 
 
(125
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Comprehensive income
 
$
45,471
 
 
$
77,789
 
 
$
58,573
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are
as follows:
 
 


 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Foreign currency translation losses
 
$
(9,674
)
 
$
(2,771
)

Unrealized loss on investments, net of tax
 
 
(3,327
)
 
 
(3,853
)

Other
 
 
(449
)
 
 
(338
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
(13,450
)
 
$
(6,962
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 

 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.

45
 

 
 
BENCHMARK ELECTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’
Equity
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accumulated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional
 
 
 
 
 
other
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 

 
 
 
 
 
Common
 
 
paid-in
 
 
Retained
 
 
comprehensive
 
 
Treasury
 
 
shareholders’
 

(in thousands)
 
Shares
 
 
shares
 
 
capital
 
 
earnings
 
 
income (loss)
 
 
shares
 
 
equity
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balances, December 31, 2008
 
 
65,226
 
 
$
6,523
 
 
$
741,813
 
 
$
312,695
 
 
$
(10,185
)
 
$
(272
)
 
$
1,050,574
 

Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,356
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,356
 

Shares repurchased and retired
 
 
(1,672
)
 
 
(167
)
 
 
(17,964
)
 
 
(9,788
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(27,919
)

Stock options exercised
 
 
366
 
 
 
36
 
 
 
3,566
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
3,602
 

Issuance of restricted shares, net
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

of forfeitures
 
 
150
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
(15
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Warrants exercised
 
 
27
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
200
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
203
 

Comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
53,381
 
 
 
5,192
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
58,573
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balances, December 31, 2009
 
 
64,097
 
 
 
6,410
 
 
 
732,956
 
 
 
356,288
 
 
 
(4,993
)
 
 
(272
)
 
 
1,090,389
 

Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,415
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,415
 

Shares repurchased and retired
 
 
(3,320
)
 
 
(332
)
 
 
(35,689
)
 
 
(22,834
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(58,855
)

Stock options exercised
 
 
290
 
 
 
29
 
 
 
3,223
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
3,252
 

Issuance of restricted shares, net
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

of forfeitures
 
 
18
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
(2
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Excess tax benefit of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

stock-based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,235
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,235
 

Comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
79,758
 
 
 
(1,969
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
77,789
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balances, December 31, 2010
 
 
61,085
 
 
 
6,109
 
 
 
707,138
 
 
 
413,212
 
 
 
(6,962
)
 
 
(272
)
 
 
1,119,225
 

Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,097
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,097
 

Shares repurchased and retired
 
 
(3,715
)
 
 
(372
)
 
 
(39,931
)
 
 
(15,978
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(56,281
)

Stock options exercised
 
 
257
 
 
 
26
 
 
 
2,545
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
2,571
 

Issuance of restricted shares, net
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

of forfeitures
 
 
164
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
(16
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Excess tax shortfall of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

stock-based compensation
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(335
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(335
)

Comprehensive income
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
51,959
 
 
 
(6,488
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
45,471
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balances, December 31, 2011
 
 
57,791
 
 
$
5,779
 
 
$
674,498
 
 
$
449,193
 
 
$
(13,450
)
 
$
(272
)
 
$
1,115,748
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 

 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.

46
 

 
BENCHMARK ELECTRONICS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
 


 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cash flows from operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
$
51,959
 
 
$
79,758
 
 
$
53,381
 

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

by operating activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Depreciation and amortization
 
 
35,484
 
 
 
39,830
 
 
 
39,807
 

Deferred income taxes
 
 
(17,991
)
 
 
280
 
 
 
(1,073
)

Asset impairments
 
 
46,530
 
 
 
237
 
 
 
236
 

Insurance recovery
 
 
(56,152
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Loss on liquidation of subsidiary
 
 
—
 
 
 
315
 
 
 
—
 

Gain on the sale of property, plant and equipment
 
 
(190
)
 
 
(69
)
 
 
(9
)

Stock-based compensation expense
 
 
5,097
 
 
 
5,415
 
 
 
5,356
 

Excess tax shortfall (benefits) from stock-based compensation
 
 
14
 
 
 
(1,176
)
 
 
—
 

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of effects
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

from business acquisition:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Accounts receivable
 
 
27,703
 
 
 
(40,190
)
 
 
6,346
 

Inventories
 
 
(72,666
)
 
 
(48,008
)
 
 
37,029
 

Prepaid expenses and other assets
 
 
12,087
 
 
 
(18,480
)
 
 
(222
)

Accounts payable
 
 
28,391
 
 
 
(16,675
)
 
 
(14,922
)

Accrued liabilities
 
 
2,655
 
 
 
5,356
 
 
 
3,744
 

Income taxes
 
 
(8,137
)
 
 
(1,427
)
 
 
(6,103
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net cash provided by operations
 
 
54,784
 
 
 
5,166
 
 
 
123,570
 

Cash flows from investing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Proceeds from sales and redemptions of investments
 
 
11,150
 
 
 
10,925
 
 
 
3,400
 

Additions to property, plant and equipment
 
 
(71,396
)
 
 
(35,778
)
 
 
(22,291
)

Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment
 
 
369
 
 
 
257
 
 
 
315
 

Additions to purchased software
 
 
(601
)
 
 
(261
)
 
 
(105
)

Purchase of intangible asset
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(11,300
)

Business acquisition
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(10,552
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net cash used in investing activities
 
 
(60,478
)
 
 
(24,857
)
 
 
(40,533
)

Cash flows from financing activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Proceeds from stock options exercised
 
 
2,571
 
 
 
3,252
 
 
 
3,602
 

Excess tax (shortfall) benefits from stock-based compensation
 
 
(14
)
 
 
1,176
 
 
 
—
 

Principal payments on capital lease obligations
 
 
(363
)
 
 
(300
)
 
 
(254
)

Share repurchases
 
 
(56,281
)
 
 
(58,855
)
 
 
(27,919
)

Proceeds from exercise of warrants
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
203
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net cash used in financing activities
 
 
(54,087
)
 
 
(54,727
)
 
 
(24,368
)

Effect of exchange rate changes
 
 
(2,644
)
 
 
(480
)
 
 
2,880
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
 
(62,425
)
 
 
(74,898
)
 
 
61,549
 

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
 
 
346,345
 
 
 
421,243
 
 
 
359,694
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
 
$
283,920
 
 
$
346,345
 
 
$
421,243
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial
statements.

47
 

 
Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements
(amounts in thousands, except per share data,
unless otherwise noted)
 
Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
(a) Business
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (the Company) is a Texas corporation
that provides worldwide integrated electronic manufacturing services. The Company provides services to original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs) of computers and related products for business enterprises, medical devices, industrial control equipment (which includes
equipment for the aerospace and defense industry), testing and instrumentation products and telecommunication equipment. The Company
has manufacturing operations located in the Americas, Asia and Europe.
(b) Principles of Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financial
statements of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. and its wholly owned and majority owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances
and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
(c) Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with
an original maturity at the date of purchase of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents of $155.0 million
and $306.0 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, consist primarily of money-market funds, certificates of deposit,
time deposits, commercial paper and U.S. Government backed Agency securities with an initial term of less than three months.
(d) Investments
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received
for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. A three-tier fair value hierarchy of inputs is employed
to determine fair value measurements. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and
liabilities. Level 2 inputs are observable prices that are not quoted on active exchanges, such as quoted prices for similar assets
or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose
significant value drivers are observable. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs employed for measuring the fair value of assets
or liabilities. This hierarchy requires the Company to use observable market data, when available, and to minimize the use of unobservable
inputs when determining fair value.
 
As of December 31, 2011, $28.0 million (par value) of long-term
investments were recorded at fair value. The long-term investments consist of auction rate securities, primarily secured by guaranteed
student loans backed by a U.S. government agency, and are classified as available-for-sale. These investments are of a high credit
quality with a majority having AAA type credit ratings because of the government agency guarantee and other insurance. Auction
rate securities are adjustable rate debt instruments whose interest rates were intended to reset every 7 to 35 days through an
auction process. Overall changes in the global credit and capital markets led to failed auctions for these securities beginning
in early 2008. These failed auctions, in addition to overall global economic conditions, impacted the liquidity of these investments
and resulted in the Company continuing to hold these securities beyond their typical auction reset dates. The market for these
types of securities remains illiquid as of December 31, 2011. These securities are classified as long-term investments and
the contractual maturity of these securities is over ten years.
 
These long-term investments were valued using Level 3 inputs
as of December 31, 2011, as the assets were subject to valuation using significant unobservable inputs. The Company estimated the
fair value of each security with the assistance of an independent valuation firm using a discounted cash flow model to calculate
the present value of projected cash flows based on a number of inputs and assumptions including the security structure and terms,
the current market conditions and the related impact on the expected weighted-average life, interest rate estimates and default
risk of the securities.

48
 

 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company has recorded an unrealized
loss of $3.3 million on the long-term investments based upon this valuation. This unrealized loss reduced the fair value of the
Company’s auction rate securities as of December 31, 2011 to $24.7 million. These investments have been in an unrealized
loss position for greater than 12 months. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded unrealized gains of $0.5 million, $0.5
million and $0.9 million, respectively, on its long-term investments.
 
The Company conducts periodic reviews to identify and evaluate
each investment that has an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is
less than its amortized cost basis. Due to the unrealized losses on the auction rate securities held, the Company has assessed
whether the calculated impairment is other-than-temporary. In performing this assessment, even though the Company has no intention
to sell the securities before the amortized cost basis is recovered and believes it is more-likely-than-not that it will not be
required to sell the securities prior to recovery, the Company has performed additional analyses to determine if a portion of the
unrealized loss is considered a credit loss. A credit loss would be identified as the amount of the principal cash flows not expected
to be received over the remaining term of the security as projected using the Company’s best estimates. The Company has assessed
each security for credit impairment, taking into account factors such as (i) the length of time and the extent to which fair value
has been below cost; (ii) activity in the market of the issuer which may indicate adverse credit conditions; (iii) the payment
structure of the security; and (iv) the failure of the issuer of the security to make scheduled payments. The Company used an independent
valuation firm to assist in making these assessments.
 
Based on these assessments, the Company has determined that
there is no credit loss associated with its auction rate securities as of December 31, 2011, as shown by the cash flows expected
to be received over the remaining life of the securities.
 
The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning
and ending balance of the Company’s auction rate securities classified as long-term investments measured at fair value using
significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs):
 



(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance as of January 1
 
$
35,297
 
 
$
45,686
 

Net unrealized gains included in other comprehensive income
 
 
526
 
 
 
536
 

Sales of investments at par value
 
 
(11,150
)
 
 
(10,925
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance as of December 31
 
$
24,673
 
 
$
35,297
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Unrealized losses still held
 
$
3,327
 
 
$
3,853
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
The cumulative unrealized loss is included as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive loss within shareholders’ equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. As of December
31, 2011, there were no long-term investments measured at fair value using Level 1 or Level 2 inputs. All income generated from
these investments is recorded as interest income.
(e) Inventories
Inventories include material, labor and overhead and are stated
at the lower of cost (principally first-in, first-out method) or market.

49
 

 
(f) Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation
is calculated on the straight-line method over the useful lives of the assets – 5 to 40 years for buildings and building
improvements, 2 to 10 years for machinery and equipment, 2 to 10 years for furniture and fixtures and 2 to 5 years for vehicles.
Leasehold improvements are amortized on the straight-line method over the shorter of the useful life of the improvement or the
remainder of the lease term.
(g) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over fair
value of net assets acquired. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a business combination and determined to have an indefinite
useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually. Intangible assets with estimable useful lives
are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values.
(h) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, such as property, plant, and equipment,
and purchased intangibles subject to amortization, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is evaluated by a comparison
of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying
amount of an asset exceeds its estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which
the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of would be separately disclosed
and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. The
assets and liabilities of a disposed group classified as held for sale would be disclosed separately in the appropriate asset and
liability sections of the balance sheet.
 
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, and is tested for
impairment more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. An impairment loss is recognized
to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset’s fair value. The impairment determination is made at the reporting
unit level and consists of two steps. First, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit, which the Company has determined
to be consistent with its operating segments as defined in Note 13 – “Segment and Geographic Information,” and
compares it to its carrying amount. The fair value of our reporting units is determined based on a weighting of both projected
discounted future results and comparative market multiples. The projected discounted future results (discounted cash flow approach)
is based on assumptions that are consistent with the Company’s estimates of future growth and the strategic plan used to
manage the underlying business. Factors requiring significant judgment include assumptions related to future growth rates, discount
factors and tax rates, amongst other considerations. Second, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair
value, an impairment loss is recognized for any excess of the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill over the implied
fair value of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit
in a manner similar to a purchase price allocation. The residual fair value after this allocation is the implied fair value of
the reporting unit goodwill. This impairment analysis is based on significant assumptions of future results made by management,
including revenue and cash flow projections. Circumstances that may lead to impairment of goodwill include unforeseen decreases
in future performance or industry demand and the restructuring of our operations as a result of a change in our business strategy.
 
The Company completed the annual impairment test during the
fourth quarter of 2011, 2010 and 2009 and determined that no goodwill impairment existed as of the date of the impairment test.

50
 

 (i) Earnings Per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average
number of shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding adjusted
for the incremental shares attributed to outstanding stock equivalents during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
Stock equivalents include common shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options and other equity instruments, and are computed
using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the exercise price of a share, the amount of compensation cost,
if any, for future service that the Company has not yet recognized, and the amount of estimated tax benefits that would be recorded
in paid-in-capital, if any, when the share is exercised are assumed to be used to repurchase shares in the current period.
 
The following table sets forth the calculation of basic and
diluted earnings per share.
 



 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands, except per share data)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net income
 
$
51,959
 
 
$
79,758
 
 
$
53,381
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Denominator for basic earnings per share – weighted-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

average number of common shares outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

during the period
 
 
59,284
 
 
 
62,141
 
 
 
64,758
 

Incremental common shares attributable to exercise
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

of outstanding dilutive options
 
 
270
 
 
 
455
 
 
 
303
 

Incremental common shares attributable to outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

restricted shares, restricted stock units and phantom stock
 
 
219
 
 
 
96
 
 
 
45
 

Incremental common shares attributable
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

to exercise of warrants
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
10
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Denominator for diluted earnings per share
 
 
59,773
 
 
 
62,692
 
 
 
65,116
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Basic earnings per share
 
$
0.88
 
 
$
1.28
 
 
$
0.82
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Diluted earnings per share
 
$
0.87
 
 
$
1.27
 
 
$
0.82
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
 
Options to purchase 3.4 million, 2.7 million and 4.1 million
common shares in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because
their effect would have been anti-dilutive.
(j) Revenue Recognition
Revenue from the sale of manufactured products built to customer
specifications and excess inventory is recognized when title and risk of ownership have passed, the price to the buyer is fixed
and determinable and recoverability is reasonably assured, which generally is when the goods are shipped. To a lesser extent, the
Company also derives revenue from non-manufacturing services, such as product design, circuit board layout and test development.
Revenue from design, development and engineering services is recognized when the services are performed and collectibility is reasonably
certain. Such services provided under fixed price contracts are accounted for using the percentage of completion method. The Company
assumes no significant obligations after shipment as the Company typically warrants workmanship only. Based on historical experience,
the warranty provision is immaterial.

51
 

 
(k) Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability
method. Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred taxes of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period
that includes the enactment date. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to the amounts that
is more likely than not to be realized. The Company has considered the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected
future taxable income and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance.
(l) Stock-Based Compensation
All share-based payments to employees, including grants of
employee stock options, are recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values. The total compensation cost recognized
for stock-based awards was $5.1 million, $5.4 million and $5.4 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The total income
tax benefit recognized in the income statement for stock-based awards was $1.7 million, $1.9 million and $1.8 million for
2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The compensation expense for stock-based awards includes an estimate for forfeitures and is
recognized over the vesting period of the awards using the straight-line method. Cash flows from the tax benefits resulting from
tax deductions in excess of the compensation cost recognized for stock-based awards (excess tax benefits) are classified as cash
flows from financing activities. Awards of restricted shares, restricted stock units, performance restricted stock units and phantom
stock are valued at the closing market price of the Company’s common shares on the date of grant. For restricted stock unit
awards with performance conditions, compensation expense is currently based on the target number of shares that would vest if 100%
of the target performance goal is achieved, which was considered the probable outcome at the grant date.
Throughout the requisite service period, management monitors the probability of achievement of the performance conditions.
If it becomes probable, based on the Company’s expectation of performance during the measurement period, that more or less
than the current estimate of the awarded shares will vest, an adjustment to stock-based compensation expense will be recognized
as a change in accounting estimate. During the fourth quarter of 2011, it was determined that none of the performance based restricted
stock unit awards that were granted in 2011 with performance conditions were probable of vesting and resulted in the reversal of
$0.2 million of stock-based compensation expense.
 
As of December 31, 2011, there was approximately $4.2 million
of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
period of 1.7 years. As of December 31, 2011, there was $3.8 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted
share awards. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. As of December 31, 2011, there
was $1.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock units and phantom stock awards. That cost
is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years. As of December 31, 2011, there was $1.3 million
of total unrecognized compensation cost related to performance based restricted stock units. That cost is expected to be recognized
over a weighted-average period of 3.2 years.

52
 

 
During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the
Company issued 0.4 million, 61 thousand and 0.6 million options, respectively. The fair value of each option grant is estimated
on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The weighted-average assumptions used to value the option grants
during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Stock Options
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Expected term of options
 
6.2 years
 
 
7.0 years
 
 
5.7 years
 

Expected volatility
 
 
41
%
 
 
40
%
 
 
41
%

Risk-free interest rate
 
 
2.674
%
 
 
2.94
%
 
 
2.51
%

Dividend yield
 
zero
 
 
zero
 
 
zero
 

 
The expected term of the options represents the estimated period
of time until exercise and is based on historical experience, giving consideration to the contractual terms, vesting schedules
and expectations of future plan participant behavior. Separate groups of plan participants that have similar historical exercise
behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility
of the Company’s common shares. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon rates in effect at
the time of grant with an equivalent remaining term. The dividend yield reflects that the Company has not paid any cash dividends
since inception and does not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future.
 
The weighted-average fair value per option granted during
the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $8.14, $9.03 and $7.58, respectively. The total cash received as a
result of stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $2.6 million,
$3.3 million and $3.6 million, respectively. The actual tax benefit realized as a result of stock option exercises and the
vesting of other share-based awards during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $0.9 million, $1.3 million and $0.9 million,
respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was
$1.4 million, $2.1 million and $2.6 million, respectively.
 
The Company issued performance based restricted stock unit
awards to employees during 2011. The number of performance based restricted stock unit awards that will ultimately be earned will
not be determined until the end of the performance period, which is December 31, 2014, and may vary from as low as zero to as high
as three times the target number (0.1 million shares) depending on the level of achievement of certain performance goals. The level
of achievement of these goals is based upon the audited financial results of the Company for the last full calendar year within
the performance period (the year ending December 31, 2014) as compared to the base year (the year ended December 31, 2010).
The performance goals consist of certain levels of achievement using the following financial metrics: revenue growth, operating
income margin expansion, and return on invested capital. If the performance goals are not met based on the Company’s financial
results, the applicable performance based restricted stock unit awards will not vest and will be forfeited.
(m) Use of Estimates
Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and
assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare
these financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
(n) Fair Values of Financial Instruments
The Company’s financial instruments consist of cash equivalents,
accounts receivable, accrued liabilities, accounts payable and capital lease obligations. The Company believes that the carrying
value of these instruments approximate their fair value. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s long-term investments are
recorded at fair value. See Note 11.

53
 

 
(o) Foreign Currency
For foreign subsidiaries using the local currency as their
functional currency, assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and income and
expenses are translated at average exchange rates. The effects of these translation adjustments are reported in other comprehensive
income. Exchange losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved
are included in other expense and totaled approximately $1.5 million, $2.4 million and $1.9 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
(p) Recently Enacted Accounting Principles
In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued amendments to the accounting and disclosure for revenue recognition. These amendments modify the criteria for recognizing
revenue in multiple element arrangements. The Company adopted the provisions of this guidance prospectively to new or materially
modified arrangements beginning January 1, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company’s
consolidated financial position and results of operations.
 
In October 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the
scope of existing software revenue recognition accounting. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components
that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality would be scoped out of the accounting guidance on
software and accounted for based on other appropriate revenue recognition guidance. The Company adopted the provisions of this
guidance prospectively to new or materially modified arrangements beginning January 1, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance
did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations.
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires a roll
forward of activities on purchases, sales, issuances and settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3 fair value measurements) effective January 1, 2011 for the Company. Adoption of this new guidance is for disclosure
purposes only and did not have any impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
In September 2011, the FASB issued an accounting standards
update that gives an entity the option to perform a qualitative assessment in determining whether it is more likely than not that
the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. Based on this qualitative assessment,
if the fair value of a reporting unit is not less than its carrying amount, the entity is not required to perform the two-step
goodwill impairment test. The standards update is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Company will adopt the provisions of this update
effective January 1, 2012 and does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements and footnote disclosures.
 
In December 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to disclosures
about offsetting assets and liabilities. The amended standard requires an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related
arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position.
An entity is required to apply the amendments for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods
within those annual periods. An entity should provide the disclosures required by those amendments retrospectively for all comparative
periods presented. The adoption of this guidance is not anticipated to have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated
financial statements and footnote disclosures.
 
The Company has determined that all other recently issued accounting
standards will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows, or do not
apply to its operations.

54
 

 
(q) Correction of an immaterial error
During the second quarter of 2011, management of the Company
identified immaterial errors related to costs incorrectly capitalized to inventory and accounting
for consigned inventory at one of the Company’s foreign locations. The 2010 and 2009 consolidated financial statements presented
herein reflect the corrections of these immaterial errors. The 2010 correction resulted in a $1.3 million increase in cost of goods
sold and a $1.3 million ($0.02 per diluted share) decrease in net income as previously reported. Associated adjustments were also
made to decrease inventory by $0.7 million, increase accounts payable by $1.1 million and decrease retained earnings by $1.8 million,
in each case, as of December 31, 2010. The 2009 correction resulted in a $0.5 million increase in cost of goods sold
and a $0.5 million ($0.01 per diluted share) decrease in net income as previously reported. Associated adjustments were also made
to decrease inventory by $0.5 million and decrease retained earnings by $0.5 million, in each case, as of December 31, 2009.
The revisions had no impact on the Company’s net cash flows from operating activities for any of these periods.
(r) Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of prior period amounts have been
made to conform to the current year presentation.
 
Note 2—Business Acquisition
In May 2009, the Company completed an immaterial business
acquisition of certain precision machining assets and capabilities for $10.6 million. The Company expensed $0.1 million in acquisition
costs related to this acquisition.
 
Note 3—Inventories
Inventory costs are summarized as follows:


 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Raw materials
 
$
293,618
 
 
$
274,245
 

Work in process
 
 
71,574
 
 
 
60,776
 

Finished goods
 
 
26,388
 
 
 
26,549
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
391,580
 
 
$
361,570
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Note 4—Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment consists of the following:


 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Land
 
$
6,172
 
 
$
6,172
 

Buildings and building improvements
 
 
79,420
 
 
 
65,525
 

Machinery and equipment
 
 
363,803
 
 
 
331,859
 

Furniture and fixtures
 
 
7,351
 
 
 
7,161
 

Vehicles
 
 
784
 
 
 
682
 

Leasehold improvements
 
 
17,708
 
 
 
17,001
 

Construction in progress
 
 
1,405
 
 
 
1,986
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
476,643
 
 
 
430,386
 

Less accumulated depreciation
 
 
(312,983
)
 
 
(302,944
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
163,660
 
 
$
127,442
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


55
 

  
Note 5—Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

Goodwill associated with the Company’s Asia business segment totaled $37.9 million at December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009. Accumulated goodwill impairment losses associated with the Company’s Americas and Europe business segments
totaled $247.5 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
Other assets consist primarily of acquired identifiable intangible
assets, capitalized purchased software costs and assets held for sale. Other intangible assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010
were as follows:
 


 
 
Gross
 
 
 
 
 
Net
 

 
 
Carrying
 
 
Accumulated
 
 
Carrying
 

(in thousands)
 
Amount
 
 
Amortization
 
 
Amount
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Customer relationships
 
$
17,763
 
 
$
(8,916
)
 
$
8,847
 

Technology licenses
 
 
11,300
 
 
 
(6,974
)
 
 
4,326
 

Other
 
 
868
 
 
 
(118
)
 
 
750
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other intangible assets, December 31, 2011
 
$
29,931
 
 
$
(16,008
)
 
$
13,923
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


 
 
Gross
 
 
 
 
 
Net
 

 
 
Carrying
 
 
Accumulated
 
 
Carrying
 

(in thousands)
 
Amount
 
 
Amortization
 
 
Amount
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Customer relationships
 
$
17,807
 
 
$
(7,165
)
 
$
10,642
 

Technology licenses
 
 
11,300
 
 
 
(4,144
)
 
 
7,156
 

Other
 
 
868
 
 
 
(94
)
 
 
774
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other intangible assets, December 31, 2010
 
$
29,975
 
 
$
(11,403
)
 
$
18,572
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Customer relationships are being amortized on a straight-line
basis over a period of ten years. In March 2009, the Company acquired certain technology licenses for $11.3 million. Technology
licenses are being amortized over their estimated useful lives in proportion to the economic benefits consumed. Amortization of
other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4.6 million, $4.2 million and $3.5 million, respectively.
 
The estimated future amortization expense of other intangible
assets for each of the next five years is as follows (in thousands):
 


Year ending December 31,
 
Amount
 

 
 
 
 

2012
 
$
2,564
 

2013
 
 
2,573
 

2014
 
 
2,573
 

2015
 
 
2,573
 

2016
 
 
2,481
 

 


56
 

 
 
During 2011, 2010 and 2009, $0.6 million, $0.3 million and
$0.1 million, respectively, of purchased software costs were capitalized. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, purchased software,
net of accumulated amortization totaled $1.9 million and $2.6 million, respectively. The accumulated amortization of purchased
software costs at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $24.1 million and $22.9 million, respectively. Capitalized purchased software
costs are amortized straight-line over the estimated useful life of the related software, which ranges from 3 to 7 years.
 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had an asset
held for sale in other assets with a net book value of $8.9 million and $8.5 million, respectively. This asset is a manufacturing
facility in Tianjin, China acquired in an acquisition and is available for immediate sale. During 2008, the Company committed to
a plan to divest its Tianjin facility.
 
Note 6—Borrowing Facilities
Under the terms of a credit agreement (the U.S. Credit
Agreement), the Company has a $100 million five-year revolving credit facility for general corporate purposes with a maturity
date of December 21, 2012. The U.S. Credit Agreement includes an accordion feature under which total commitments under the
facility may be increased by an additional $100 million, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions and lender
approval.
 
Interest on outstanding borrowings under the
U.S. Credit Agreement is payable quarterly, at the Company’s option, at either LIBOR plus 0.75% to 1.75% or a prime
rate plus 0.00% to 0.25%, based upon the Company’s debt ratio as specified in the U.S. Credit Agreement. A commitment
fee of 0.15% to 0.35% per annum (based upon the Company’s debt ratio) on the unused portion of the revolving credit
line is payable quarterly in arrears. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the
U.S. Credit Agreement and $100 million was available for future borrowings.
 
The U.S. Credit Agreement is secured by the
Company’s domestic inventory and accounts receivable, 100% of the stock of the Company’s domestic subsidiaries,
65% of the voting capital stock of each direct foreign subsidiary and substantially all of the other tangible and intangible
assets of the Company and its domestic subsidiaries. The U.S. Credit Agreement contains customary financial covenants as to
working capital, debt leverage, fixed charges and consolidated net worth, and restricts the ability of the Company to incur
additional debt, pay dividends, sell assets and to merge or consolidate with other persons. As of December 31, 2011, the
Company was in compliance with all such covenants and restrictions.
 
The Company’s Thailand subsidiary has a multi-purpose
credit facility with Kasikornbank Public Company Limited (the Thai Credit Facility) that provides for approximately $11.1 million
(350 million Thai baht) in working capital availability. The Thai Credit Facility is secured by land and buildings in Thailand.
Availability of funds under the Thai Credit Facility is reviewed annually and is currently accessible through October 2012. As
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company’s Thailand subsidiary had no working capital borrowings outstanding.
 

57
 


 
Note 7—Commitments
The Company leases certain manufacturing equipment, office
equipment, vehicles and office, warehouse and manufacturing facilities under operating leases. Some of the leases provide for escalation
of the lease payments as maintenance costs and taxes increase. The leases expire at various times through 2020. Leases for office
space and manufacturing facilities generally contain renewal options. Rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009 was $10.3 million, $11.0 million and $10.6 million, respectively.
 
The Company is obligated under a capital lease that expires
in 2023. As of December 31, 2011, property, plant and equipment include the following amounts under capital leases (in
thousands):
 


Buildings and building improvements
 
$
12,207
 

Less accumulated depreciation
 
 
(3,756
)

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
8,451
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
Capital lease obligations outstanding consist of the following:
 


 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Capital lease obligations
 
$
11,019
 
 
$
11,381
 

Less current installments
 
 
419
 
 
 
362
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Capital lease obligations, less current installments
 
$
10,600
 
 
$
11,019
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating
leases and future minimum capital lease payments are as follows (in thousands):


 
 
Capital
 
 
Operating
 

Year ending December 31,
 
Leases
 
 
Leases
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2012
 
$
1,520
 
 
$
8,801
 

2013
 
 
1,550
 
 
 
6,177
 

2014
 
 
1,581
 
 
 
5,032
 

2015
 
 
1,613
 
 
 
4,668
 

2016
 
 
1,645
 
 
 
3,420
 

Thereafter
 
 
11,051
 
 
 
3,517
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total minimum lease payments
 
$
18,960
 
 
$
31,615
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Less: amount representing interest
 
 
7,941
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Present value of minimum lease payments
 
 
11,019
 
 
 
 
 

Less: current installments
 
 
419
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Capital lease obligations, less current installments
 
$
10,600
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
The Company enters into contractual commitments to deliver
products and services in the ordinary course of business. The Company believes that all such contractual commitments will be performed
or renegotiated such that no material adverse financial impact on the Company’s financial position, results of operations
or liquidity will result from these commitments.

58
 


 
Note 8—Common Shares and Stock-Based Awards Plans
On September 20, 2010, the Company completed the
repurchase of 6.1 million of its common shares under the $100 million share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors
on July 24, 2008. On March 3, 2010, the Board of Directors approved the additional repurchase of up to $100 million of the Company’s
outstanding common shares (the 2010 Repurchase Program). As of December 31, 2011, the Company has $35.1 million remaining under
the 2010 Repurchase Program to repurchase additional shares.
 
Share purchases may be made in the open market, in privately
negotiated transactions or block transactions, at the discretion of the Company’s management and as market conditions warrant.
Purchases will be funded from available cash and may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice.
Shares repurchased under the program will be retired. During 2011, the Company repurchased a total of 3.7 million common shares
for $56.3 million at an average price of $15.13 per share. During 2010, the Company repurchased a total of 3.3 million common
shares for $58.9 million at an average price of $17.70 per share. During 2009, the Company repurchased a total of 1.7 million common
shares for $27.9 million at an average price of $16.67 per share.
 
The Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2000 Stock Awards Plan (the
2000 Plan) and the Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (the 2010 Plan) authorize the Company,
upon recommendation of the compensation committee of the Board of Directors, to grant a variety of types of awards, including stock
options, restricted shares, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance compensation awards, phantom stock awards
and deferred share units, or any combination thereof, to any director, officer, employee or consultant (including any prospective
director, officer, employee or consultant) of the Company. Stock options are granted to employees with an exercise price equal
to the market price of the Company’s common shares on the date of grant, generally vest over a four-year period from the
date of grant and have a term of ten years. Restricted shares, restricted stock units and phantom stock awards granted to employees
generally vest over a four-year period from the date of grant, subject to the continued employment of the employee by the Company.
The 2000 Plan expired on February 16, 2010 and no additional grants can be made under that plan. The 2010 Plan was approved
by the Company’s shareholders on May 18, 2010 and replaced the 2000 Plan. Members of the Board of Directors who are not employees
of the Company participate in the Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the 2002 Plan)
that authorizes the granting of stock options upon the occurrence of the non-employee director’s election or re-election
to the Board of Directors. The 2002 Plan was approved by the Company’s shareholders on May 14, 2002 and expired February
26, 2012. No additional grants may be made under the 2002 Plan. All awards under the 2002 Plan are fully vested upon the date of
grant and have a term of ten years. Non-employee directors may also receive equity awards under the 2010 Plan. In 2011, these awards
have been in the form of restricted stock units, which vest in equal quarterly installments over a one year period, starting from
the grant date. As of December 31, 2011, 4.4 million additional common shares are available for issuance under the Company’s
existing plans.

59
 


 
The following table summarizes the activities relating to
the Company’s stock options:
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
Average
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Average
 
 
Remaining
 
 
Aggregate
 

 
 
Number of
 
 
Exercise
 
 
Contractual
 
 
Intrinsic
 

(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Options
 
 
Price
 
 
Term (Years)
 
 
Value
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2008
 
 
5,838
 
 
$
18.43
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Granted
 
 
584
 
 
$
18.39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exercised
 
 
(366
)
 
$
9.85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Forfeited or expired
 
 
(525
)
 
$
16.26
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2009
 
 
5,531
 
 
$
19.20
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Granted
 
 
61
 
 
$
19.41
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exercised
 
 
(290
)
 
$
11.21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Forfeited or expired
 
 
(477
)
 
$
24.32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
4,825
 
 
$
19.18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Granted
 
 
399
 
 
$
18.56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exercised
 
 
(257
)
 
$
9.98
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Forfeited or expired
 
 
(442
)
 
$
18.74
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
4,525
 
 
$
19.69
 
 
 
5.05
 
 
$
1,128
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exercisable at December 31, 2011
 
 
3,730
 
 
$
20.32
 
 
 
4.39
 
 
$
913
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above is before
income taxes and is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying options and the Company’s closing
stock price as of the last business day of the year ended December 31, 2011 for options that had exercise prices that
were below the closing price.
 
At December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the number of options
exercisable was 3.7 million, 3.6 million and 3.1 million, respectively, and the weighted-average exercise price of those options
was $20.32, $20.40 and $19.97, respectively.

60
 


 
 
The following table summarizes the activities relating to
the Company’s restricted shares:


(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Shares
 
 

Weighted-
Average
Grant Date 
Fair Value
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2008
 
 
140
 
 
$
13.99
 

Granted
 
 
151
 
 
$
19.11
 

Forfeited
 
 
(1
)
 
$
12.64
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2009
 
 
290
 
 
$
16.67
 

Vested
 
 
(105
)
 
$
15.81
 

Forfeited
 
 
(7
)
 
$
17.02
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
178
 
 
$
17.17
 

Granted
 
 
195
 
 
$
18.57
 

Vested
 
 
(66
)
 
$
16.66
 

Forfeited
 
 
(63
)
 
$
17.92
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
244
 
 
$
18.23
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
The following table summarizes the activities relating to
the Company’s time based restricted stock units and phantom stock awards:


(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Shares
 
 

Weighted-
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2008
 
 
34
 
 
$
12.64
 

Granted
 
 
49
 
 
$
19.11
 

Forfeited
 
 
(2
)
 
$
14.07
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2009
 
 
81
 
 
$
16.50
 

Vested
 
 
(26
)
 
$
15.33
 

Forfeited
 
 
(8
)
 
$
17.04
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
47
 
 
$
17.05
 

Granted
 
 
86
 
 
$
17.77
 

Vested
 
 
(32
)
 
$
16.66
 

Forfeited
 
 
(18
)
 
$
17.37
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
83
 
 
$
17.88
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


61
 

 
 
The following table summarizes the activities related to
the Company’s performance based restricted stock unit awards:


(in thousands, except per share data)
 
Shares
 
 

Weighted-
Average
Grant Date
Fair Value
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2010
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Granted(1)
 
 
93
 
 
$
18.57
 

Forfeited
 
 
(25
)
 
$
18.57
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Outstanding at December 31, 2011
 
 
68
 
 
$
18.57
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 (1) Represents target number of shares that can vest
based on the achievement of certain performance criteria.
 
Note 9—Income Taxes
Income tax expense (benefit) based on income before income
taxes consists of:


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Current:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

U.S. Federal
 
$
75
 
 
$
300
 
 
$
(4,521
)

State and local
 
 
86
 
 
 
948
 
 
 
294
 

Foreign
 
 
7,003
 
 
 
5,730
 
 
 
3,326
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
7,164
 
 
 
6,978
 
 
 
(901
)

Deferred:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

U.S. Federal
 
 
(16,963
)
 
 
(407
)
 
 
1,789
 

State and local
 
 
442
 
 
 
(52
)
 
 
355
 

Foreign
 
 
(1,470
)
 
 
739
 
 
 
(3,217
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
(17,991
)
 
 
280
 
 
 
(1,073
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
(10,827
)
 
$
7,258
 
 
$
(1,974
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Worldwide income before income taxes consisted of the following:


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

United States
 
$
5,405
 
 
$
27,650
 
 
$
4,012
 

Foreign
 
 
35,727
 
 
 
59,366
 
 
 
47,395
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
41,132
 
 
$
87,016
 
 
$
51,407
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


62
 


 
 
Income tax expense (benefit) differed from the amounts computed
by applying the U.S. Federal statutory income tax rate to income before income taxes as a result of the following:


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Tax at statutory rate
 
$
14,396
 
 
$
30,456
 
 
$
17,992
 

State taxes, net of federal tax effect
 
 
343
 
 
 
582
 
 
 
422
 

Effect of foreign operations and tax incentives
 
 
(12,442
)
 
 
(13,021
)
 
 
(13,818
)

Valuation allowance
 
 
(23,674
)
 
 
(10,657
)
 
 
(486
)

Thailand reserve for uncertain tax benefits
 
 
7,056
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Settlement of foreign tax audits
 
 
(2,710
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Intercompany transactions
 
 
2,801
 
 
 
(1,321
)
 
 
(1,293
)

Losses in foreign jurisdictions for which no benefit has
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

been provided
 
 
3,068
 
 
 
63
 
 
 
894
 

Write-off of investment in inactive foreign owned subsidiary
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,668
)

Revaluation loss
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,429
)

Other
 
 
335
 
 
 
1,156
 
 
 
(588
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total income tax expense (benefit)
 
$
(10,827
)
 
$
7,258
 
 
$
(1,974
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


63
 

 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to
significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented below:
 


 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Deferred tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 

Carrying value of inventories
 
$
2,240
 
 
$
1,816
 

Accrued liabilities and allowances deductible for tax purposes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

on a cash basis
 
 
5,367
 
 
 
7,043
 

Goodwill
 
 
14,397
 
 
 
18,179
 

Stock-based compensation
 
 
7,398
 
 
 
6,466
 

Net operating loss carryforwards
 
 
49,561
 
 
 
46,829
 

Tax credit carryforwards
 
 
5,400
 
 
 
4,464
 

Other
 
 
9,850
 
 
 
11,398
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
94,213
 
 
 
96,195
 

Less: valuation allowance
 
 
(42,524
)
 
 
(61,852
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net deferred tax assets
 
 
51,689
 
 
 
34,343
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Deferred tax liabilities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Plant and equipment, due to differences in depreciation
 
 
(4,586
)
 
 
(4,984
)

Other
 
 
(1,508
)
 
 
(1,534
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Gross deferred tax liability
 
 
(6,094
)
 
 
(6,518
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net deferred tax asset
 
$
45,595
 
 
$
27,825
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Recorded as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Current deferred tax assets
 
$
8,175
 
 
$
3,850
 

Non-current deferred tax assets
 
 
37,420
 
 
 
23,975
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net deferred tax asset
 
$
45,595
 
 
$
27,825
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


64
 

 
 
The net change in the total valuation allowance for the years
ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was a decrease of $19.3 million, $11.1 million and $2.9 million, respectively. In assessing
the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future
taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management considers the scheduled reversal
of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon
the level of historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the periods which the deferred tax assets
are deductible, management believes it is more likely than not the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences,
net of the existing valuation allowances as of December 31, 2011. During 2011, the Company evaluated the recoverability
of its deferred tax assets using the criteria described above and concluded that the Company’s projected future taxable income
in the U.S. is sufficient to utilize additional net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets. As a result, the
Company reduced its valuation allowance by $19.1 million in the U.S. During 2010, the valuation allowance on U.S. net deferred
tax assets was reduced by $10.5 million as a result of utilizing U.S. net operating losses and other deferred tax assets during
the year.
 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $105.1 million in
U.S. Federal operating loss carryforwards which will expire from 2022 to 2031, state operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$106.5 million which will expire from 2017 to 2031, foreign operating loss carryforwards of approximately $34.4 million with indefinite
carryforward periods, and foreign operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3.5 million which will expire at varying dates
through 2020. The utilization of these net operating loss carryforwards is limited to the future operations of the Company in the
tax jurisdictions in which such carryforwards arose. The Company has U.S. federal tax credit carryforwards of $3.7 million which
will expire at varying dates through 2031. The Company has state tax credit carryforwards of $1.7 million which will expire at
varying dates through 2027.
 
Cumulative undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries
amounted to approximately $491 million as of December 31, 2011. The Company considers earnings from foreign subsidiaries to be
indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no provision for U.S. federal and state income taxes has been made for these earnings.
Upon distribution of foreign subsidiary earnings in the form of dividends or otherwise, such distributed earnings would be reportable
for U.S. income tax purposes (subject to adjustment for foreign tax credits). Determination of the amount of any unrecognized deferred
tax liability on these undistributed earnings is not practical.
 
The Company has been granted certain tax incentives, including
tax holidays, for its subsidiaries in China, Malaysia and Thailand. These tax incentives, including tax holidays, expire on various
dates through 2015, and are subject to certain conditions with which the Company expects to comply. The net impact of these tax
incentives was to lower income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 by approximately $10.5 million
(approximately $0.18 per diluted share), $8.7 million (approximately $0.14 per diluted share) and $9.9 million (approximately $0.15
per diluted share), respectively.

65
 


 
The Company must determine whether it is “more-likely-than-not”
that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based
on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold,
the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. As of December 31, 2011,
the total amount of the reserve for uncertain tax benefits including interest and penalties is $21.3 million. A reconciliation
of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, is as follows:
 


 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance as of January 1
 
$
14,759
 
 
$
16,036
 
 
$
23,121
 

Additions related to prior year tax positions
 
 
7,056
 
 
 
120
 
 
 
135
 

Decreases related to prior year tax positions
 
 
(3,724
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
(2,800
)

Decreases as a result of a lapse of the applicable statute
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   of limitations in current year
 
 
—
 
 
 
(1,397
)
 
 
(4,420
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Balance as of December 31
 
$
18,091
 
 
$
14,759
 
 
$
16,036
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
The increase in the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
reserve during 2011 is primarily the result of recording an income tax reserve against an income tax receivable that the Company
had previously recorded for a subsidiary in Thailand offset by a decrease in the unrecognized tax benefits reserve for a settlement
of income tax audits outside the United States. The decreases in the unrecognized tax benefits reserve during 2010 and 2009 are
primarily the result of the expiration of the statute of limitations for worthless stock deductions and intercompany transactions.
 
The reserve is classified as a current or long-term liability
in the consolidated balance sheet based on the Company’s expectation of when the items will be settled. The Company records
interest expense and penalties accrued in relation to uncertain income tax benefits as a component of current income tax expense.
The total amount of interest and penalties included in income tax expense during the year ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009
was $(0.2) million, $(0.3) million and $0.07 million, respectively. The total amount of accrued potential interest and penalties
on unrecognized tax benefits is $1.6 million and $1.6 million as of December 31, 2011. A subsidiary of the Company in Thailand
has filed for a refund of $8.2 million of previously paid income taxes, which is included in other assets. The Thailand tax authorities
are currently conducting an examination of the applicable filings. During 2011, the Company recorded a reserve for uncertain benefits
of $7.1 million against this receivable.
 
The Company and its subsidiaries in Brazil, China, Ireland,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mexico, the Netherlands, Romania, Singapore, Thailand and the United States remain open to examination by
the various local taxing authorities, in total or in part, for fiscal years 2006 to 2011.
 
The Company is subject to examination by tax authorities
for varying periods in various U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. During the course of such examinations disputes occur as to
matters of fact and/or law. Also, in most tax jurisdictions the passage of time without examination will result in the expiration
of applicable statutes of limitations thereby precluding the taxing authority from conducting an examination of the tax period(s)
for which such statute of limitation has expired. The Company believes that it has adequately provided for its tax liabilities.

66
 


Note 10—Major Customers
The Company’s customers operate in industries that
are, to a varying extent, subject to rapid technological change, vigorous competition and short product life cycles. Developments
adverse to the electronics industry, the Company’s customers or their products could impact the Company’s overall credit
risk.
 
The Company extends credit based on evaluation of its customers’
financial condition and generally does not require collateral or other security from its customers and would incur a loss equal
to the carrying value of the accounts receivable if its customer failed to perform according to the terms of the credit arrangement.
 
Sales to the ten largest customers represented 53%, 47% and
52% of total sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to our largest customer were as follows for the indicated periods:
 



 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

International Business Machines Corporation
 
$
319,411
 
 
$
 *
 
 
$ 
 *
 

Oneida Nation Electronics, Inc.
 
$
 *
 
 
$
 *
 
 
$
290,236
 

 
* amount is less than 10% of total
 
In 2009, Oneida Nation Electronics, Inc. supported
International Business Machines Corporation in the computers and related products for business enterprises industry. In 2010,
the combined product sales to these two customers totaled $300.9 million but no one customer’s sales exceeded 10% of total
sales.

  
Note 11—Financial Instruments and Concentration
of Credit Risk
The carrying amounts of cash equivalents, accounts receivable,
accrued liabilities, accounts payable and capital lease obligations approximate fair value. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s
investments are recorded at fair value. See Note 1(d). As of December 31, 2011, the Company had no significant off-balance sheet
concentrations of credit risk such as foreign currency exchange contracts or other hedging arrangements. Financial instruments
that subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents, investments and trade accounts receivable. Management
maintains the majority of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions. One of the most significant
credit risks is the ultimate realization of accounts receivable. This risk is mitigated by (i) sales to well established companies,
(ii) ongoing credit evaluation of customers, and (iii) frequent contact with customers, thus enabling management to monitor current
changes in business operations and to respond accordingly. Management considers these concentrations of credit risks in establishing
our allowance for doubtful accounts and believes these allowances are adequate. The Company’s largest customer represented
approximately 21% and 18% of its gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
 
Note 12—Concentrations of Business Risk
Substantially all of the Company’s sales are derived
from manufacturing services in which the Company purchases components specified by its customers. The Company uses numerous suppliers
of electronic components and other materials for its operations. Some components used by the Company have been subject to industry-wide
shortages, and suppliers have been forced to allocate available quantities among their customers. The Company’s inability
to obtain any needed components during periods of allocation could cause delays in manufacturing and could adversely affect results
of operations.

67
 


Note 13—Segment and Geographic Information
The Company has manufacturing facilities in the Americas,
Asia and Europe to serve its customers. The Company is operated and managed geographically, and management evaluates performance
and allocates the Company’s resources on a geographic basis. Intersegment sales are generally recorded at prices that approximate
arm’s length transactions. Operating segments’ measure of profitability is based on income from operations. The accounting
policies for the reportable operating segments are the same as for the Company taken as a whole. The Company has three reportable
operating segments: the Americas, Asia, and Europe. Information about operating segments was as follows:


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Net sales:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Americas
 
$
1,360,943
 
 
$
1,538,034
 
 
$
1,279,632
 

Asia
 
 
867,008
 
 
 
864,627
 
 
 
724,541
 

Europe
 
 
166,730
 
 
 
164,196
 
 
 
182,031
 

Elimination of intersegment sales
 
 
(141,651
)
 
 
(164,714
)
 
 
(96,951
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
2,253,030
 
 
$
2,402,143
 
 
$
2,089,253
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Depreciation and amortization:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Americas
 
$
16,670
 
 
$
20,031
 
 
$
19,376
 

Asia
 
 
12,859
 
 
 
13,444
 
 
 
13,873
 

Europe
 
 
2,664
 
 
 
2,913
 
 
 
2,778
 

Corporate
 
 
3,291
 
 
 
3,442
 
 
 
3,780
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
35,484
 
 
$
39,830
 
 
$
39,807
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income from operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Americas
 
$
46,170
 
 
$
64,632
 
 
$
36,211
 

Asia
 
 
30,804
 
 
 
57,721
 
 
 
52,455
 

Europe
 
 
7
 
 
 
3,488
 
 
 
(1,376
)

Corporate and intersegment eliminations
 
 
(35,688
)
 
 
(37,395
)
 
 
(34,989
)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
41,293
 
 
$
88,446
 
 
$
52,301
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Capital expenditures:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Americas
 
$
18,008
 
 
$
18,486
 
 
$
10,298
 

Asia
 
 
47,413
 
 
 
14,283
 
 
 
8,519
 

Europe
 
 
4,592
 
 
 
2,233
 
 
 
3,281
 

Corporate
 
 
1,984
 
 
 
1,036
 
 
 
298
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
71,997
 
 
$
36,038
 
 
$
22,396
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Americas
 
$
650,998
 
 
$
583,724
 
 
$
567,494
 

Asia
 
 
610,596
 
 
 
515,414
 
 
 
417,694
 

Europe
 
 
197,132
 
 
 
243,872
 
 
 
263,025
 

Corporate and other
 
 
41,272
 
 
 
134,058
 
 
 
216,993
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
1,499,998
 
 
$
1,477,068
 
 
$
1,465,206
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 


68
 


Geographic net sales information provided below reflects
the destination of the product shipped. Long-lived assets information is based on the physical location of the asset.
 


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Geographic net sales:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

United States
 
$
1,518,940
 
 
$
1,764,544
 
 
$
1,549,272
 

Asia
 
 
346,267
 
 
 
216,599
 
 
 
171,355
 

Europe
 
 
333,781
 
 
 
367,599
 
 
 
331,830
 

Other
 
 
54,042
 
 
 
53,401
 
 
 
36,796
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
2,253,030
 
 
$
2,402,143
 
 
$
2,089,253
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Long-lived assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

United States
 
$
70,756
 
 
$
72,386
 
 
$
77,675
 

Asia
 
 
98,675
 
 
 
67,365
 
 
 
65,555
 

Europe
 
 
11,817
 
 
 
9,785
 
 
 
9,344
 

Other
 
 
17,744
 
 
 
16,237
 
 
 
13,160
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
198,992
 
 
$
165,773
 
 
$
165,734
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Note 14—Employee Benefit Plans
The Company has defined contribution plans qualified under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code for the benefit of its U.S. employees. The plans cover all U.S. employees with at least
one year of service. Under the provisions of the plans, the Company will match a portion of each participant’s contribution.
The Company may also make discretionary contributions to the plans. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company made contributions
to the plans of approximately $3.5 million, $3.5 million and $3.2 million, respectively. The Company also has defined contribution
benefit plans for certain of its international employees primarily dictated by the custom of the regions in which it operates.
During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company made contributions to the international plans of approximately $0.3 million, $0.3 million
and $0.2 million, respectively.
 
Note 15—Contingencies
On June 3, 2007, Power Paper, Ltd. (Power Paper), a limited
liability company from Israel filed suit against Pemstar Inc. (Pemstar) in U.S. District Court in Minnesota. Pemstar was a Minnesota
public company that was acquired by the Company in January 2007. Power Paper’s claim sought damages of up to $22.8 million
based on an alleged breach of contract. The trial, which began on September 12, 2011, resulted in a jury verdict in favor of Pemstar.
 
The Company is involved in various legal actions arising
in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate disposition of these other matters will not have
a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 

Note 16—Restructuring and Thailand Flood Related
Charges, Net of Insurance
The Company has undertaken initiatives to restructure its business
operations with the intention of improving utilization and realizing cost savings in the future. These initiatives have included
changing the number and location of production facilities, largely to align capacity and infrastructure with current and anticipated
customer demand. This alignment includes transferring programs from higher cost geographies to lower cost geographies. The process
of restructuring entails, among other activities, moving production between facilities, reducing staff levels, realigning our business
processes and reorganizing our management.
 
The Company recognized restructuring charges during 2011, 2010
and 2009 primarily related to the closure of facilities, capacity reduction and reductions in workforce in certain facilities worldwide.
These charges were recorded pursuant to plans developed and approved by management.


69
 

 
The following table summarizes the 2011 activity in the accrued
restructuring balances related to the various restructuring activities initiated during 2011, 2010 and 2009:
 


 
 
Balance as of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign
 
 
Balance as of
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
Restructuring
 
 
Cash
 
 
Non-Cash
 
 
Exchange
 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2010
 
 
Charges
 
 
Payment
 
 
Activity
 
 
Adjustments
 
 
2011
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2011 Restructuring:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance
 
$
—
 
 
$
2,386
 
 
$
(2,215
)
 
$
—
 
 
$
18
 
 
$
189
 

Lease facility costs
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,958
 
 
 
(294
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,664
 

Other exit costs
 
 
—
 
 
 
514
 
 
 
(159
)
 
 
(355
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
—
 
 
 
4,858
 
 
 
(2,668
)
 
 
(355
)
 
 
18
 
 
 
1,853
 

2010 Restructuring:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance
 
 
1,767
 
 
 
(503
)
 
 
(1,317
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
87
 
 
 
34
 

Other exit costs
 
 
709
 
 
 
181
 
 
 
(872
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
20
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
2,476
 
 
 
(322
)
 
 
(2,189
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
89
 
 
 
54
 

2009 Restructuring:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Lease facility costs
 
 
1,506
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
(1,161
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
57
 
 
 
402
 

Other exit costs
 
 
27
 
 
 
(21
)
 
 
(6
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
1,533
 
 
 
(21
)
 
 
(1,167
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
57
 
 
 
402
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total
 
$
4,009
 
 
$
4,515
 
 
$
(6,024
)
 
$
(355
)
 
$
164
 
 
$
2,309
 

 
The components of the restructuring charges initiated during
2011 were as follows:
 


(in thousands)
 
Americas
 
 
Europe
 
 
Asia
 
 
Total
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance costs
 
$
421
 
 
$
1,829
 
 
$
136
 
 
$
2,386
 

Facility lease costs
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,335
 
 
 
623
 
 
 
1,958
 

Other exit costs
 
 
22
 
 
 
203
 
 
 
289
 
 
 
514
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
443
 
 
$
3,367
 
 
$
1,048
 
 
$
4,858
 

 
During 2011, the Company recognized $2.4 million of employee
termination costs associated with the involuntary terminations of 196 employees in connection with reductions in workforce of certain
facilities worldwide. In Europe, these involuntary terminations were in connection with the closure of the Dublin, Ireland facility.
The identified involuntary employee terminations by reportable geographic region amounted to approximately 107, 38 and 51 for the
Americas, Asia and Europe, respectively. The Company also recorded approximately $2.0 million for facility lease obligations
and approximately $0.5 million for other exit costs, including $0.4 million of asset impairments associated with the closure
of certain leased facilities.
 


70
 


 
The following table summarizes the 2010 activity in the accrued
restructuring balances related to the various restructuring activities initiated during 2010 and 2009:
 


 
 
Balance as of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign
 
 
Balance as of
 

 
 
December 31,
 
 
Restructuring
 
 
Cash
 
 
Non-Cash
 
 
Exchange
 
 
December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2009
 
 
Charges
 
 
Payment
 
 
Activity
 
 
Adjustments
 
 
2010
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

2010 Restructuring:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance
 
$
—
 
 
$
4,164
 
 
$
(2,401
)
 
$
—
 
 
$
4
 
 
$
1,767
 

Leased facility costs
 
 
—
 
 
 
494
 
 
 
(494
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 

Other exit costs
 
 
—
 
 
 
1,167
 
 
 
(458
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
709
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
—
 
 
 
5,825
 
 
 
(3,353
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
2,476
 

2009 Restructuring:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance
 
 
1,099
 
 
 
134
 
 
 
(1,235
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
—
 

Lease facility costs
 
 
2,472
 
 
 
99
 
 
 
(835
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
(230
)
 
 
1,506
 

Other exit costs
 
 
113
 
 
 
901
 
 
 
(882
)
 
 
(105
)
 
 
—
 
 
 
27
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
3,684
 
 
 
1,134
 
 
 
(2,952
)
 
 
(105
)
 
 
(228
)
 
 
1,533
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total
 
$
3,684
 
 
$
6,959
 
 
$
(6,305
)
 
$
(105
)
 
$
(224
)
 
$
4,009
 

 
The components of the restructuring charges initiated during
2010 were as follows:
 


(in thousands)
 
Americas
 
 
Europe
 
 
Asia
 
 
Total
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance costs
 
$
1,388
 
 
$
1,374
 
 
$
1,384
 
 
$
4,146
 

Facility lease costs
 
 
494
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
494
 

Other exit costs
 
 
369
 
 
 
137
 
 
 
679
 
 
 
1,185
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
2,251
 
 
$
1,511
 
 
$
2,063
 
 
$
5,825
 

 
During 2010, the Company recognized $4.2 million of
employee termination costs associated with the involuntary terminations of 751 employees in connection with reductions in workforce
of certain facilities. The identified involuntary employee terminations by reportable geographic region amounted to approximately
286, 421 and 44 for the Americas, Asia and Europe, respectively. The Company also recorded approximately $0.5 million for
facility lease obligations and approximately $1.2 million for other exit costs, including $0.2 million of asset impairments
associated with the closure of certain leased facilities.

 


71
 

  
The components of the restructuring charges initiated during
2009 were as follows:
 


(in thousands)
 
Americas
 
 
Europe
 
 
Asia
 
 
Total
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Severance costs
 
$
1,262
 
 
$
2,100
 
 
$
939
 
 
$
4,301
 

Facility lease costs
 
 
139
 
 
 
2,704
 
 
 
—
 
 
 
2,843
 

Other exit costs
 
 
920
 
 
 
144
 
 
 
30
 
 
 
1,094
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
2,321
 
 
$
4,948
 
 
$
969
 
 
$
8,238
 

 
During 2009, the Company recognized $4.3 million of employee
termination costs associated with the involuntary terminations of 655 employees in connection with reductions in workforce of certain
facilities. The identified involuntary employee terminations by reportable geographic region amounted to approximately 327, 270
and 58 for the Americas, Asia and Europe, respectively. The Company also recorded approximately $2.8 million for facility
lease obligations and approximately $1.1 million for other exit costs, including $0.2 million of asset impairments associated
with the closure of certain leased facilities.
 
The Company’s facilities in Ayudhaya, Thailand were flooded
and remained closed from October 13, 2011 to December 20, 2011. As a result of the flooding and temporary closing of these facilities,
the Company has recognized estimated property losses of $46.2 million and incurred $13.4 million of flood related costs. The Company
carries property and business interruption insurance with a combined limit for real and personal property as well as business interruption
insurance of approximately $300 million. As such, the Company has estimated recoveries from insurance for these property losses
and flood related costs totaling $56.2 million. The Company cannot estimate the timing of the receipt of insurance proceeds it
will ultimately realize, and there may be a substantial delay between the incurrence of losses and the recovery under its insurance
policies
 
Because the situation in
Thailand is still evolving, significant uncertainty remains regarding the ultimate financial impact the flooding will have on the
Company.
 
As of December 31, 2011,
Thailand flood related charges, net of insurance recoveries, were as follows (in thousands):
 


Inventory losses
 
$
39,919
 

Property, plant and equipment losses
 
 
6,233
 

Other flood related costs
 
 
13,362
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
59,514
 

Estimated insurance recoveries recorded in prepaid expenses and other assets
 
 
(56,152
)

 
 
 
 
 

 
 
$
3,362
 

 
 


72
 

 
 
Note 17—Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
The following table sets forth certain unaudited quarterly
information with respect to the Company’s results of operations for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009. Earnings per share are
computed independently for each of the quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share may not
equal the total earnings per share amounts for the fiscal year.
 


 
 
2011 Quarter
 

(in thousands, except per share data)
 
1st
 
 
2nd
 
 
3rd
 
 
4th
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Sales
 
$
538,312
 
 
$
585,549
 
 
$
570,083
 
 
$
559,086
 

Gross profit
 
 
37,624
 
 
 
37,751
 
 
 
34,635
 
 
 
28,825
 

Net income
 
 
14,513
 
 
 
14,701
 
 
 
19,867
 
 
 
2,878
 

Earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   Basic
 
 
0.24
 
 
 
0.24
 
 
 
0.34
 
 
 
0.05
 

   Diluted
 
 
0.24
 
 
 
0.24
 
 
 
0.34
 
 
 
0.05
 

 


 
 
2010 Quarter
 

(in thousands, except per share data)
 
1st
 
 
2nd
 
 
3rd
 
 
4th
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Sales
 
$
571,905
 
 
$
589,449
 
 
$
613,864
 
 
$
626,925
 

Gross profit
 
 
45,237
 
 
 
46,254
 
 
 
47,192
 
 
 
48,732
 

Net income
 
 
18,142
 
 
 
20,137
 
 
 
22,469
 
 
 
19,010
 

Earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   Basic
 
 
0.29
 
 
 
0.32
 
 
 
0.36
 
 
 
0.31
 

   Diluted
 
 
0.28
 
 
 
0.32
 
 
 
0.36
 
 
 
0.31
 

 


 
 
2009 Quarter
 

(in thousands, except per share data)
 
1st
 
 
2nd
 
 
3rd
 
 
4th
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Sales
 
$
496,767
 
 
$
481,802
 
 
$
510,461
 
 
$
600,223
 

Gross profit
 
 
31,636
 
 
 
34,500
 
 
 
36,534
 
 
 
43,395
 

Net income
 
 
9,238
 
 
 
11,501
 
 
 
16,137
 
 
 
16,505
 

Earnings per common share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   Basic
 
 
0.14
 
 
 
0.18
 
 
 
0.25
 
 
 
0.26
 

   Diluted
 
 
0.14
 
 
 
0.18
 
 
 
0.25
 
 
 
0.25
 

 
 
Note 18—Supplemental Cash Flow Information
The following is additional information concerning supplemental
disclosures of cash payments.
 


 
 
Year ended December 31,
 

(in thousands)
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Income taxes paid, net
 
$
7,759
 
 
$
8,577
 
 
$
6,170
 

Interest paid
 
$
1,290
 
 
$
1,324
 
 
$
1,354
 

 


73
 

 
 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Benchmark Electronics, Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements
of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2011. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Benchmark Electronics, Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 28, 2012 expressed an
unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.
 
(signed) KPMG LLP
Houston, Texas
February 28, 2012
 

74
 

 
Management’s Report
 
The management of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. has prepared
and is responsible for the consolidated financial statements and related financial data contained in this report. The consolidated
financial statements were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include certain
amounts based upon management’s best estimates and judgments. The financial information contained elsewhere in this annual
report is consistent with that in the consolidated financial statements.
 
The Company maintains internal accounting control systems
that are adequate to prepare financial records and to provide reasonable assurance that the assets are safe-guarded from loss or
unauthorized use. We believe these systems are effective, and the cost of the systems does not exceed the benefits obtained.
 
The Audit Committee, composed exclusively of independent,
outside directors, has reviewed all financial data included in this report. The committee meets periodically with the Company’s
management and independent registered public accountants on financial reporting matters. The independent registered public accountants
have complete access to the Audit Committee and may meet with the committee, without management present, to discuss their audit
results and opinions on the quality of financial reporting.
 
The role of independent registered public accountants is
to render a professional, independent opinion on management’s financial statements to the extent required by the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Benchmark’s responsibility is to conduct its affairs according
to the highest standards of personal and corporate conduct.
 

75
 

 
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
Accounting  and Financial Disclosure
 
None.
 
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
 
Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure
Controls and Procedures
 
As of the end of the period covered by this report, the Company’s
management (with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer), conducted an evaluation pursuant
to Rule 13a-15 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures. Based on this evaluation, the Company’s chief
executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that as of the end of the period covered by this report such disclosure
controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the Company
in reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified
in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information
required to be disclosed by the Company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including
the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required
disclosure.
 
There has been no change in our internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the last fiscal quarter covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K that has materially affected,
or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
 
Our management, including our chief executive officer and
chief financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and internal controls will prevent all errors and all fraud.
A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives
of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints,
and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems,
no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company
have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that
breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some
persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also
is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design
will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, a control may become inadequate because
of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent
limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
 

76
 

 
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision
and with the participation of our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted
an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under the
framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.
 
The effectiveness of the Company’s internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm,
as stated in their report which is included below.
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Benchmark Electronics, Inc.:
 
We have audited Benchmark Electronics, Inc.’s (the
Company’s) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Benchmark
Electronics, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for
its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A company’s internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance
that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 


77
 

 
In our opinion, Benchmark Electronics, Inc. maintained, in
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2011, and our report dated February 28,
2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.
 
(signed) KPMG LLP
Houston, Texas
February 28, 2012
 
Item 9B. Other Information
 
Not applicable.
PART III
 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers
and Corporate Governance
 
The information under the captions “Election of Directors,”
“Executive Officers” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the Company’s
Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the 2012 Proxy Statement), to be filed not later than 120 days after
the close of the Company’s fiscal year, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
The information under the captions “Compensation Discussion
and Analysis” and “Report of Compensation Committee” in the 2012 Proxy Statement, to be filed not later than
120 days after the close of the Company’s fiscal year, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.
 

78
 

 
 
Item 12. Security Ownership of
Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters
 
The information under the caption “Common Share Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in the 2012 Proxy Statement, to be filed not later than 120 days after the close
of the Company’s fiscal year, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.
 
The following table sets forth certain information relating
to our equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2011.
 



 
Number of
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
securities to be
 
 
Weighted-
 
 
Number of
 


 
issued upon
 
 
average exercise
 
 
securities
 


 
exercise of
 
 
price of
 
 
remaining
 


 
outstanding
 
 
outstanding
 
 
available
 


 
options, warrants
 
 
options, warrants
 
 
for future
 

Plan Category
 
and rights
 
 
and rights
 
 
issuance
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders
 
4,674,801
(1) 
 
$19.69
(1) 
 
4,401,041
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Total
 
4,674,801
 
 

 
 
4,401,041
 

 
(1) Includes
150,641 restricted share units, phantom stock awards and performance restricted share units. The weighted-average exercise price
does not take these awards into account.
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence
 
The information under the caption “Election of Directors”
in the 2012 Proxy Statement, to be filed not later than 120 days after the close of the Company’s fiscal year, is incorporated
herein by reference in response to this item.
 
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and
Services
 
The information under the caption “Audit Committee
Report to Shareholders” in the 2012 Proxy Statement, to be filed not later than 120 days after the close of the Company’s
fiscal year, is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.
 

79
 

 
 
PART IV
 
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules
 
(a) (1) Financial statements of the Company filed as part
of this report:
 
See Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
(2) Financial statement
schedule filed as part of this report:
 
Schedule II - Valuation Accounts
 


  
Additions 

  
Balance at  
   
   
   
Balance at 

  
Beginning  
Charges to  
   
   
End of 

(in thousands) 
of Period  
Operations  
Other  
Deductions  
Period 

  
   
   
   
   
  

Year ended December 31, 2011: 
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for doubtful accounts (1) 
$586  
 546  
 (23) 
 15  
 1,094 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Year ended December 31, 2010: 
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for doubtful accounts (1) 
$417  
 385  
 (29) 
 187  
 586 

  
    
    
    
    
   

Year ended December 31, 2009: 
    
    
    
    
   

Allowance for doubtful accounts (1) 
$1,072  
 (51) 
 (6) 
 598  
 417 

 


(1)
Deductions in the
    allowance for doubtful accounts represent write-offs, net of recoveries, of amounts determined to be uncollectible.

 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
on Schedule
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Benchmark Electronics, Inc.:
 
Under date of February 28, 2012, we reported on the consolidated
balance sheets of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2011, in this annual report on Form 10-K for the year 2011. In connection with our audits
of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related consolidated financial statement schedule
included in Item 15(a)2. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered
in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information
set forth therein.
 
(signed) KPMG LLP
Houston, Texas
February 28, 2012
 

80
 

 
 
(3) Exhibits
 
Each exhibit marked with
an asterisk is filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 


Exhibit
 
 

Number
 
Description

 
 
 

2.1  
 
—
Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 16, 2006 among the Company, Autobahn Acquisition Corp. and Pemstar Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated October 16, 2006 and filed on October 18, 2006 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

3.1  
 
—
Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company dated May 10, 1990 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Registration Number 33-46316) (the “Registration Statement”)).

 
 
 
 

3.2  
 
—
Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company adopted by the shareholders of the Company on May 20, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

3.3  
 
—
Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company approved by the shareholders of the Company on August 13, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the Company’s Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-103183)).

 
 
 
 

3.4  
 
—
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company dated May 18, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated May 18, 2006 and filed on May 19, 2006 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

3.5  
 
—
Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company approved by the shareholders of the Company on May 10, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated October 16, 2006 and filed on October 16, 2006 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.1  
 
—
Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registration Statement).

 
 
 
 

4.2  
 
—
Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company adopted by the shareholders of the Company on May 20, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.3  
 
—
Specimen form of certificate evidencing the Common Share (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registration Statement).

 
 
 
 

4.4  
 
—
Rights Agreement dated December 11, 1998 between the Company and Harris Trust Savings Bank, as Rights Agent, together with the following exhibits thereto: Exhibit A — Form of Statement of Resolution Establishing Series A Cumulative Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Benchmark Electronics, Inc.; Exhibit B — Form of Right Certificate; and Exhibit C — Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock of Benchmark Electronics, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1 to the Company’s Form 8A12B filed December 11, 1998 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 

81
 

 


4.5  
 
—
Statement of Resolution Establishing Series A Cumulative Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit B of the Rights Agreement dated December 11, 1998 between the Company and Harris Trust Savings Bank, as Rights Agent, included as Exhibit 1 to the Company’s Form 8A12B filed December 11, 1998 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.6  
 
—
Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company’s Form 8A12B/A filed December 22, 1998 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.7  
 
—
Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company approved by the shareholders of the Company on August 13, 2002 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the Company’s Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-103183)).

 
 
 
 

4.8  
 
—
Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated May 18, 2006 and filed on May 19, 2006 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.9  
 
—
Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company approved by the shareholders of the Company on May 10, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated October 16, 2006 and filed on October 16, 2006 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.10
 
—
Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 10, 2008, to the Rights Agreement dated as of December 11, 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated December 10, 2008 and filed on December 11, 2008 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

4.11
 
—
Amendment No. 2 dated as of May 18, 2010, to the Rights Agreement dated as of December 11, 1998, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of December 10, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Form 8-A12B/A filed May 25, 2010 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.1
 
—
Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and its directors and executive officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.2
 
—
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2000 Stock Awards Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-54186)).

 
 
 
 

10.3
 
—
Form of incentive stock option agreement for use under the 2000 Stock Awards Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-54186)).

 
 
 
 

10.4
 
—
Form of phantom stock agreement for use under the 2000 Stock Awards Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.5
 
—
Form of nonqualified stock option agreement for use under the 2000 Stock Awards Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 20088 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 


82
 

  


10.6  
 
—
Form of restricted stock agreement for use under the 2000 Stock Awards Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated March 17, 2008 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.7  
 
—
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan dated as of December 16, 2008 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-156202)).

 
 
 
 

10.8  
 
—
Guarantee dated September 10, 1998 by the Company in favor of Kilmore Developments Limited (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.9  
 
—
Lease Agreement dated March 9, 2001 by and between BEI Electronics Ireland Limited and Canada Life Assurance (Ireland) Limited (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.24 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.10
 
—
Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of December 21, 2007 among the Company; the borrowing subsidiaries; the lenders party thereto; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as administrative agent, collateral agent and issuing lender; Bank of America, N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Comerica Bank as co-documentation agents; and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. as lead arranger (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated December 21, 2007 and filed on December 27, 2007 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.11
 
—
Employment Agreement between the Company and Gayla J. Delly effective December 1, 2005 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated November 11, 2005 and filed on November 15, 2005 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.12
 
—
Employment Agreement between the Company and Donald F. Adam dated as of March 10, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated March 10, 2009 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.13
 
—
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company’s Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A filed April 15, 2002 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.14
 
—
Code of Conduct (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.15
 
—
Amendment No. 1 to the Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2002 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated May 18, 2006 filed on May 19, 2006 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.16
 
—
Benchmark Electronics, Inc. 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-168426)).

 
 
 
 

10.17
 
—
Form of option award agreement for use under the 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.10 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-168426)).

 

83
 


 


10.18
 
—
Form of restricted share award agreement for use under the 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.11 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-168426)).

 
 
 
 

10.19
 
—
Form of restricted stock unit award agreement for use under the 2010 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.12 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration Number 333-168426)).

 
 
 
 

10.20
 
—
Employment Termination and Settlement Agreement dated November 8, 2011 between the Company and Cary T. Fu (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated November 8, 2011 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.21
 
—
Consulting Services and Non-Compete Agreement dated November 8, 2011 between the Company and Cary T. Fu (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated November 8, 2011 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

10.22
 
—
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated November 8, 2011 between the Company and Gayla J. Delly (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Form 8-K dated November 8, 2011 (Commission file number 1-10560)).

 
 
 
 

11    
 
—
Statement regarding Computation of Per-Share Earnings (incorporated by reference to “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1(j) – Earnings Per Share” in Item 8 of this report).

 
 
 
 

21*  
 
—
Subsidiaries of Benchmark Electronics, Inc.

 
 
 
 

23*  
 
—
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm concerning incorporation by reference in the Company’s Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-28997, No. 333-103183, No. 333-101744, No. 333-156202 and No. 333-168427).

 



31.1*
 
—
Section 302 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

 
 
 
 

31.2*
 
—
Section 302 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

 
 
 
 

32.1*
 
—
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer

 
 
 
 

32.2*
 
—
Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer

 


101.INS (1)
 
XBRL Instance Document

 
 
 
 

101.SCH (1)
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

 
 
 
 

101.CAL (1)
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document

 
 
 
 

101.LAB (1)
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

 
 
 
 

101.DEF (1)
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

 
(1)
XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus
for purposes of sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.
* Filed herewith.
 

84
 

  
SIGNATURES
 
	Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.
 


 
BENCHMARK ELECTRONICS, INC.

 
 
 

 
By: 
/s/ Gayla J. Delly

 
 
Gayla J. Delly

 
 
Chief Executive Officer

 
 
Date: February 27, 2012

 
	Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated
and on the dates indicated.
 


Name
 
Position
 
Date

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Cary T. Fu
 
Chairman of the Board
 
February 27, 2012

Cary T. Fu
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Gayla J. Delly
 
President, Chief Executive Officer and 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

Gayla J. Delly
 
(principal executive officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Donald F. Adam
 
Chief Financial Officer
 
February 27, 2012

Donald F. Adam
 
(principal financial and accounting officer)
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Michael R. Dawson
 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

Michael R. Dawson
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Peter G. Dorflinger
 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

Peter G. Dorflinger
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Douglas G. Duncan
 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

Douglas G. Duncan
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ David W. Scheible
 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

David W. Scheible
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Bernee D.L. Strom
 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

Bernee D.L. Strom
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

/s/ Clay C. Williams
 
Director
 
February 27, 2012

Clay C. Williams
 
 
 
 





85






