
10-K
1
d404388d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
 


x
Annual Report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the fiscal year ended August 25, 2012,  or   


¨
Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
For the transition period from
                     to                     .
 Commission file number 1-10714 
   
  

 AUTOZONE, INC.  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   
   






Nevada
 
62-1482048

 (State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




123 South Front Street, Memphis, Tennessee
 
38103

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 (901) 495-6500  (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)  Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock ($.01 par value)
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None   
  Indicate by check mark if the
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to
Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate
by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this
chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    x
 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
 










Large accelerated filer
 
x
  
Accelerated filer
 
¨






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price
of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $12,668,552,608. 
The number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of October 15, 2012, was 36,931,946. 
   
Documents Incorporated By Reference  Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be filed within 120 days of August 25, 2012, pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held December 12, 2012, are incorporated by reference into Part III.   
   


Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 








 PART I
  
 
4
  

 Item 1. Business
  
 
4
  

 Introduction
  
 
4
  

 Marketing and Merchandising Strategy
  
 
5
  

 Commercial
  
 
6
  

 Store Operations
  
 
7
  

 Store Development
  
 
8
  

 Purchasing and Supply Chain
  
 
8
  

 Competition
  
 
8
  

 Trademarks and Patents
  
 
9
  

 Employees
  
 
9
  

 AutoZone Websites
  
 
9
  

 Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
 
9
  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors
  
 
11
  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
14
  

 Item 2. Properties
  
 
15
  

 Item 3. Legal Proceedings
  
 
15
  

 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
15
  




 PART II
  
 
16
  

 Item 
5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
 
16
  

 Item 6. Selected Financial Data
  
 
18
  

 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
19
  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
30
  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
33
  

 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
64
  

 Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
  
 
64
  

 Item 9B. Other Information
  
 
64
  




 PART III
  
 
65
  

 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
65
  

 Item 11. Executive Compensation
  
 
65
  

 Item 
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
  
 
65
  

 Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence
  
 
65
  

 Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
65
  




 PART IV 
  
 
66
  

 Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
66
  

  2 


Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Statements  Certain statements contained in this annual report on Form 10-K are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements typically use words such as “believe,” “anticipate,”
“should,” “intend,” “plan,” “will,” “expect,” “estimate,” “project,” “positioned,” “strategy” and similar expressions. These are based on assumptions and
assessments made by our management in light of experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors that we believe to be appropriate. These forward-looking statements are subject to a
number of risks and uncertainties, including without limitation: credit market conditions; the impact of recessionary conditions; competition; product demand; the ability to hire and retain qualified employees; consumer debt levels; inflation;
weather; raw material costs of our suppliers; energy prices; war and the prospect of war, including terrorist activity; construction delays; access to available and feasible financing; and changes in laws or regulations. Certain of these risks are
discussed in more detail in the “Risk Factors” section contained in Item 1A under Part 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 25, 2012, and these Risk Factors should be read carefully. Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results; developments and business decisions may differ from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements, and events described above and in the “Risk Factors” could
materially and adversely affect our business. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Except as required by applicable law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise. Actual results may materially differ from anticipated results. 
  3 


Table of Contents
PART I 
Item 1. Business  Introduction  AutoZone, Inc. (“AutoZone,” the
“Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the nation’s leading retailer, and a leading distributor, of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. We began operations in 1979 and at
August 25, 2012, operated 4,685 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and 321 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and
remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 25, 2012, in 3,053 of our domestic stores, we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery
of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We have commercial programs in select stores in Mexico as well. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic
and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases
through www.autozonepro.com. We do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.  At August 25, 2012, our stores
were in the following locations:   








 
  
Store Count
 

 Alabama
  
 
100
  

 Alaska
  
 
1
  

 Arizona
  
 
121
  

 Arkansas
  
 
60
  

 California
  
 
502
  

 Colorado
  
 
68
  

 Connecticut
  
 
38
  

 Delaware
  
 
13
  

 Florida
  
 
244
  

 Georgia
  
 
181
  

 Idaho
  
 
22
  

 Illinois
  
 
223
  

 Indiana
  
 
146
  

 Iowa
  
 
23
  

 Kansas
  
 
38
  

 Kentucky
  
 
87
  

 Louisiana
  
 
113
  

 Maine
  
 
6
  

 Maryland
  
 
48
  

 Massachusetts
  
 
76
  

 Michigan
  
 
161
  

 Minnesota
  
 
35
  

 Mississippi
  
 
85
  

 Missouri
  
 
104
  

 Montana
  
 
9
  

 Nebraska
  
 
14
  

 Nevada
  
 
58
  

 New Hampshire
  
 
20
  

 New Jersey
  
 
74
  

 New Mexico
  
 
62
  

 New York
  
 
140
  

 North Carolina
  
 
186
  

 North Dakota
  
 
1
  

 Ohio
  
 
236
  

 Oklahoma
  
 
67
  

 Oregon
  
 
36
  

 Pennsylvania
  
 
129
  

 Puerto Rico
  
 
29
  

  4 


Table of Contents








 Rhode Island
  
 
15
  

 South Carolina
  
 
82
  

 South Dakota
  
 
3
  

 Tennessee
  
 
157
  

 Texas
  
 
551
  

 Utah
  
 
43
  

 Vermont
  
 
2
  

 Virginia
  
 
103
  

 Washington
  
 
73
  

 Washington, DC
  
 
6
  

 West Virginia
  
 
31
  

 Wisconsin
  
 
57
  

 Wyoming
  
 
6
  


  
  
  
 

 Total Domestic
  
 
4,685
  

 Mexico
  
 
321
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
5,006
  


  
  
  
 
 Marketing and Merchandising Strategy 
We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and trustworthy advice as well as quality automotive parts and products at a great value in
conveniently located, well-designed stores. Key elements of this strategy are:  Customer Service 
Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize
that our AutoZoners (employees) should always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts as well as warranties that are offered by us or our
vendors on many of the parts that we sell. The wide area network in our stores helps us expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, locate parts at neighboring AutoZone stores, including our hub stores, and in some cases, place
special orders directly with our vendors. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive parts through www.autozone.com and offer smartphone apps that provide customers with store locations,
driving directions, operating hours, and product availability.  Our stores generally open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m.
Monday through Saturday and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9 p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week. 
We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool program. Customers can borrow a specialty tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a
do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer or a repair shop would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free services, including check engine light readings where allowed by law, battery charging, the
collection of used oil for recycling, and the testing of starters, alternators, batteries, sensors and actuators. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Merchandising  The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:   








 Failure
  
 Maintenance
  
 Discretionary

 A/C Compressors
Batteries & Accessories
Belts & Hoses
Carburetors Chassis Clutches
CV Axles Engines Fuel Pumps
Fuses Ignition Lighting
Mufflers Starters & Alternators Water Pumps
Radiators Thermostats
  
 Antifreeze & Windshield Washer Fluid Brake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & Pads Chemicals, including Brake & Power
Steering Fluid, Oil & Fuel Additives Oil
& Transmission Fluid Oil, Air, Fuel & Transmission Filters Oxygen Sensors Paint & Accessories Refrigerant & Accessories Shock Absorbers & Struts
Spark Plugs & Wires Windshield
Wipers
  
 Air Fresheners Cell Phone
Accessories Drinks & Snacks Floor
Mats & Seat Covers Mirrors
Performance Products Protectants &
Cleaners Sealants & Adhesives
Steering Wheel Covers Stereos &
Radios Tools Wash &
Wax
 We believe that the satisfaction of our customers is often impacted by our ability to provide specific automotive
products as requested. Each store carries the same basic products, but we tailor our inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each store’s trade area, and our sales floor products are tailored to the local store’s demographics.
Our hub stores carry a larger assortment of products that are delivered to local satellite stores. We are constantly updating the products we offer to ensure that our inventory matches the products our customers need or desire. 
Pricing  We want to be perceived by our
customers as the value leader in our industry, by consistently providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a satisfactory warranty and outstanding customer service. For many of our products, we offer multiple value choices in a
good/better/best assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better” and “best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line of
in-house brands, which includes the Econocraft, Valucraft, AutoZone, Duralast, Duralast Gold, and Duralast Platinum brands. We believe that our overall value compares favorably to that of our competitors. 
Brand Marketing: Advertising and Promotions  We believe that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we
can build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize promotions, advertising and loyalty card programs primarily to advise customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance, our great value and the availability of high quality parts.
Broadcast and internet media are our primary advertising methods of driving traffic to our stores. We utilize in-store signage, in store circulars, and creative product placement and promotions to help educate customers about products that they
need.  Store Design and Visual Merchandising  We design and build stores for high visual impact. The typical AutoZone store utilizes colorful exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lit interiors. Maintenance products,
accessories and non-automotive items are attractively displayed for easy browsing by customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays, end caps and shelves.  Commercial  Our commercial sales program operates in a highly
fragmented market, and we are one of the leading distributors of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts in the United States, Puerto Rico and Mexico.
As a part of the program, we offer credit and delivery to our customers, as well as direct commercial sales through www.autozonepro.com. Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of parts and products desired by professional technicians. We
have dedicated sales teams focused on national, regional and public sector commercial accounts. 
  6 


Table of Contents
Store Operations  Store Formats  Substantially all AutoZone stores are based on standard store formats,
resulting in generally consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s square footage is selling space, of which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts inventory. The hard parts
inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories and
non-automotive items.  We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than relying on
traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.  Store
Personnel and Training  Each store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners, including a manager and, in some cases, an assistant
manager. We provide on-the-job training as well as formal training programs, including an annual national sales meeting, regular store meetings on specific sales and product issues, standardized training manuals and a specialist program that
provides training to AutoZoners in several areas of technical expertise from the Company, our vendors and independent certification agencies. All AutoZoners are encouraged to complete tests resulting in certifications by the National Institute for
Automotive Service Excellence (“ASE”), which is broadly recognized for training certification in the automotive industry. Training is supplemented with frequent store visits by management. 
Store managers, sales representatives and commercial specialists receive financial incentives through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth
has provided opportunities for the promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract, motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.  All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico and Chihuahua, Mexico. We believe that this centralization enhances consistent
execution of our merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while reducing expenses and cost of sales.  Store Automation
 All of our stores have Z-net, our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to efficiently look up the parts that our
customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice and information for customer vehicles. Z-net provides parts information based on the year, make, model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at
other nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net display screens are placed on the hard parts counter or pods, where both the AutoZoner and customer can view the screen.  Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code scanning and point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides administrative
assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System also enhances customer service through faster processing of
transactions and simplified warranty and product return procedures. In addition, our wide area network enables the stores to expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, to access national warranty data, to implement real-time
inventory controls and to locate and hold parts at neighboring AutoZone stores. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Store Development  The following table reflects our store development during the past five fiscal years:   
























 
  
Fiscal Year
 

 
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 

 Beginning stores
  
 
4,813
  
  
 
4,627
  
  
 
4,417
  
  
 
4,240
  
  
 
4,056
  

 New stores
  
 
193
  
  
 
188
  
  
 
213
  
  
 
180
  
  
 
185
  

 Closed stores
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net new stores
  
 
193
  
  
 
186
  
  
 
210
  
  
 
177
  
  
 
184
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Relocated stores
  
 
10
  
  
 
10
  
  
 
3
  
  
 
9
  
  
 
14
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Ending stores
  
 
5,006
  
  
 
4,813
  
  
 
4,627
  
  
 
4,417
  
  
 
4,240
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We believe that expansion opportunities exist both in markets that we do not currently serve, as well as in markets where
we can achieve a larger presence. We attempt to obtain high visibility sites in high traffic locations and undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets. The most important criteria for opening a new store are the projected future
profitability and the ability to achieve our required investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile, customer buying trends, commercial businesses, number and
strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven years old and older, or “our kind of vehicles”; these vehicles are generally no
longer under the original manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles. We generally seek to open new stores within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to cluster development in markets in
a relatively short period of time. In addition to continuing to lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.  Purchasing and Supply Chain  Merchandise is selected and purchased
for all stores through our store support centers located in Memphis, Tennessee and Monterrey, Mexico. In fiscal 2012, one class of similar products accounted for 10 percent of our total sales, and one vendor supplied more than 10 percent of our
purchases. No other class of similar products accounted for 10 percent or more of our total sales, and no other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We believe that we have good relationships with our suppliers. We
also believe that alternative sources of supply exist, at similar cost, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking
firms.  Our hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our stores and to expand our product
assortment. A hub store generally has a larger assortment of products as well as regular replenishment items that can be delivered to a store in its network within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple
times per week.  Competition  The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. AutoZone
competes in the after-market auto parts industry, which includes both the retail DIY and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) auto parts and products markets.  Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, on-line parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and
mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the
basis of customer service, including the trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability; price; product warranty; store layouts, location and convenience; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks
and service marks. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Trademarks and Patents 
We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark office as well as in certain other countries, including
our service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Duralast Platinum,” “Valucraft,” “Econocraft,”
“ALLDATA,” “Loan-A-Tool” and “Z-net.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important components of our marketing and merchandising strategies.  Employees  As of August 25, 2012, we employed over 70,000
persons, approximately 59 percent of whom were employed full-time. About 92 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field supervision, approximately 5 percent in distribution centers and approximately 3 percent in store
support and other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 4,100 persons employed in our Mexico operations.  We have never
experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our AutoZoners are good.  AutoZone
Websites  AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our investor relations
website, http://www.autozoneinc.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Executive Officers of the Registrant  The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our commitment to customer service. Officers
are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  William C. Rhodes, III, 47—Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction  William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during fiscal 2007 and has been President,
Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President – Store Operations and Commercial. Previously, he held several key
management positions with the Company. Prior to 1994, Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Rhodes is currently a member of the Board of Directors for Dollar General Corporation. 
William T. Giles, 53—Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and ALLDATA, Customer
Satisfaction  William T. Giles was named Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and
ALLDATA during October 2012. Prior to that, he was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President – Finance, Information Technology and Store Development from fiscal 2007 to October 2012, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer from June 2006 to December 2006, and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since May 2006. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers.  Harry L. Goldsmith, 61—Executive Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary, Customer Satisfaction  Harry L. Goldsmith was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel
and Secretary during fiscal 2006. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1996 and was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1993 to 1996.  Mark A. Finestone, 51—Senior Vice President – Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction  Mark A. Finestone was elected Senior Vice President – Merchandising during fiscal 2008. Previously, he was Vice President – Merchandising since 2002. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002,
Mr. Finestone worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership roles which included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising. 
  9 


Table of Contents
William W. Graves, 52—Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International,
Customer Satisfaction  William W. Graves was named Senior Vice President – Supply Chain and International during October 2012. Prior
thereto, he was Senior Vice President – Supply Chain from fiscal 2006 to October 2012 and Vice President – Supply Chain from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2006. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in various capacities with the Company.
 Ronald B. Griffin, 58—Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction 
Ronald B. Griffin was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in June 2012. Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Global
Information Technology at Hewlett-Packard Company. During his tenure at Hewlett-Packard Company, he also served as the Chief Information Officer for the Enterprise Business Division. Prior to that, Mr. Griffin was Executive Vice President and
Chief Information Officer for Fleming Companies, Inc. He also spent over 12 years with The Home Depot, Inc., with the last eight years in the role of Chief Information Officer. Mr. Griffin also served at Deloitte & Touche LLP and Delta
Air Lines, Inc.  Lisa R. Kranc, 59—Senior Vice President – Marketing, Customer Satisfaction 
Lisa R. Kranc was elected Senior Vice President – Marketing during fiscal 2001. Previously, she was Vice President – Marketing for
Hannaford Bros. Co., a Maine-based grocery chain, since 1997, and was Senior Vice President – Marketing for Bruno’s, Inc., from 1996 to 1997. Prior to 1996, she was Vice President Marketing for Giant Eagle, Inc. since 1992.
 Thomas B. Newbern, 50—Senior Vice President – Store Operations and Store Development, Customer Satisfaction 
Thomas B. Newbern was elected Senior Vice President – Store Operation and Store Development during October 2012. Previously, Mr. Newbern
held the titles Senior Vice President – Store Operations from fiscal 2007 to October 2012 and Vice President – Store Operations from fiscal 1998 to fiscal 2007. Previously, he has held several key management positions with the
Company.  Robert D. Olsen, 59—Corporate Development Officer, Customer Satisfaction 
Robert D. Olsen was elected Corporate Development Officer during fiscal 2009, with primary responsibility for Mexico, ALLDATA, and other strategic
initiatives. Previously, he was Executive Vice President – Store Operations, Commercial, ALLDATA, and Mexico since fiscal 2007. Prior to that time, he was Executive Vice President – Supply Chain, Information Technology, Mexico and Store
Development since fiscal 2006 and before that, Senior Vice President since fiscal 2000 with primary responsibility for store development and Mexico operations. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Olsen was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Leslie’s Poolmart. From 1985 to 1989, Mr. Olsen held several positions with AutoZone, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Vice President – Finance and Controller. In October 2012,
Mr. Olsen announced his plans to retire, effective late December 2012. In conjunction with the announcement, his responsibilities were transitioned to other executive officers.  Charlie Pleas, III, 47—Senior Vice President and Controller, Customer Satisfaction 
Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during fiscal 2007. Prior to that, he was Vice President and Controller since 2003.
Previously, he was Vice President – Accounting since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Pleas was a Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various capacities
since 1988.  Larry M. Roesel, 55—Senior Vice President – Commercial, Customer Satisfaction 
Larry M. Roesel was elected AutoZone as Senior Vice President – Commercial during fiscal 2007. Mr. Roesel came to AutoZone with more than
thirty years of experience with OfficeMax, Inc. and its predecessor, where he served in operations, sales and general management. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Michael A. Womack, 45—Senior Vice President – Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction
 Michael A. Womack was elected Senior Vice President – Human Resources in June 2012. He was previously Vice President of Human
Resources with Cintas Corp. and had been with Cintas since 2003. Before joining Cintas, he was a law partner with the Littler Mendelson law firm.  Item 1A. Risk Factors  Our business is subject to a variety
of risks. Set forth below are certain of the important risks that we face, the occurrence of which could have a material, adverse effect on our business. These risks are not the only ones we face. Our business could also be affected by additional
factors that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial to our business.  If demand for our products slows,
then our business may be materially affected.  Demand for products sold by our stores depends on many factors, including: 
 


 
•
 
 the number of vehicles in current service, including those that are seven years old and older. These vehicles are generally no longer under the
original vehicle manufacturers’ warranties and tend to need more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles.   


 
•
 
 rising energy prices. Increases in energy prices may cause our customers to defer purchases of certain of our products as they use a higher percentage
of their income to pay for gasoline and other energy costs.   


 
•
 
 the economy. In periods of rapidly declining economic conditions, both retail and commercial customers may defer vehicle maintenance or repair.
Additionally, such conditions may affect our customers’ ability to obtain credit. During periods of expansionary economic conditions, more of our DIY customers may pay others to repair and maintain their cars instead of working on their own
vehicles or they may purchase new vehicles.   


 
•
 
 the weather. Mild weather conditions may lower the failure rates of automotive parts, while wet conditions may cause our customers to defer maintenance
and repair on their vehicles. Extremely hot or cold conditions may enhance demand for our products due to increased failure rates of our customers’ automotive parts. 
 


 
•
 
 technological advances. Advances in automotive technology and parts design could result in cars needing maintenance less frequently and parts lasting
longer.  For the long term, demand for our products may be affected by: 
 


 
•
 
 the number of miles vehicles are driven annually. Higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair. Mileage levels may be affected
by gas prices and other factors.   


 
•
 
 the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranties or maintenance offered on new vehicles;
and   


 
•
 
 restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation.
 All of these factors could result in immediate and longer term declines in the demand for our products, which could
adversely affect our sales, cash flows and overall financial condition.  If we are unable to compete successfully against other businesses
that sell the products that we sell, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.  The sale of automotive parts,
accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive and is based on many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and price. Competitors are opening locations near our existing stores. AutoZone
competes as a provider in both the DIY and DIFM auto parts and accessories markets. 
  11 


Table of Contents
Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores,
on-line parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to discount and mass merchandise stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores, convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and
supplies, chemicals, accessories, tools and maintenance parts. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, including the knowledge and expertise of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and availability;
product warranty; store layout, location and convenience; price; and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks; some competitors may gain competitive advantages, such as greater financial and marketing resources allowing
them to sell automotive products at lower prices, larger stores with more merchandise, longer operating histories, more frequent customer visits and more effective advertising. If we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive
strategies, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.  We may
not be able to sustain our historic rate of sales growth.  We have increased our store count in the past five fiscal years, growing from
4,056 stores at August 25, 2007, to 5,006 stores at August 25, 2012, an average store count increase per year of 5%. Additionally, we have increased annual revenues in the past five fiscal years from $6.170 billion in fiscal 2007 to $8.604
billion in fiscal 2012, an average increase per year of 8%. Annual revenue growth is driven by the opening of new stores and increases in same-store sales. We open new stores only after evaluating customer buying trends and market demand/needs, all
of which could be adversely affected by continued job losses, wage cuts, small business failures and microeconomic conditions unique to the automotive industry. Same store sales are impacted both by customer demand levels and by the prices we are
able to charge for our products, which can also be negatively impacted by continued recessionary pressures. We cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to open stores at historical rates or continue to achieve increases in same-store
sales.  If we cannot profitably increase our market share in the commercial auto parts business, our sales growth may be limited.
 Although we are one of the largest sellers of auto parts in the commercial market, to increase commercial sales we must compete against
national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned parts stores, wholesalers and jobbers and auto dealers. Although we believe we compete effectively on the basis of customer service, merchandise quality, selection and availability, price,
product warranty, distribution locations, and the strength of our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks, some automotive aftermarket jobbers have been in business for substantially longer periods of time than we have, have developed
long-term customer relationships and have large available inventories. If we are unable to profitably develop new commercial customers, our sales growth may be limited.  Significant changes in macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  Our short-term and long-term debt is rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These investment-grade credit ratings have historically allowed us to take advantage of lower interest rates and
other favorable terms on our short-term credit lines, in our senior debt offerings and in the commercial paper markets. To maintain our investment-grade ratings, we are required to meet certain financial performance ratios. An increase in our debt
and/or a decline in our earnings could result in downgrades in our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could limit our access to public debt markets, limit the institutions willing to provide credit facilities to us, result in more
restrictive financial and other covenants in our public and private debt and would likely significantly increase our overall borrowing costs and adversely affect our earnings.  Moreover, significant deterioration in the financial condition of large financial institutions in calendar years 2008 and 2009 resulted in a severe loss of liquidity and availability of credit in global
credit markets and in more stringent borrowing terms. During brief time intervals in the fourth quarter of calendar 2008 and the first quarter of calendar 2009, there was no liquidity in the commercial paper markets, resulting in an absence of
commercial paper buyers and extraordinarily high interest rates on commercial paper. We can provide no assurance that credit market events such as those that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 will not occur again
in the foreseeable future. Conditions and events in the global credit market could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms and cost of that debt. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Macroeconomic conditions also impact both our customers and our suppliers. Job growth in the United States
has stagnated and unemployment has remained at historically high levels during the past four years. If the United States government is unable to reach agreement on legislation addressing the United States’ current debt level and budget deficit,
many economists have predicted another economic recession. Continued recessionary conditions could result in additional job losses and business failures, which could result in our loss of certain small business customers and curtailment of spending
by our retail customers. In addition, continued distress in global credit markets, business failures and other recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our suppliers to obtain necessary short and long-term
financing to meet our inventory demands. Moreover, rising energy prices could impact our merchandise distribution, commercial delivery, utility and product costs. All of these macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our sales growth, margins
and overhead, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations.  Our business depends upon hiring and retaining
qualified employees.  We believe that much of our brand value lies in the quality of the more than 70,000 AutoZoners employed in our
stores, distribution centers, store support centers and ALLDATA. We cannot be assured that we can continue to hire and retain qualified employees at current wage rates. If we are unable to hire, properly train and/or retain qualified employees, we
could experience higher employment costs, reduced sales, losses of customers and diminution of our brand, which could adversely affect our earnings. If we do not maintain competitive wages, our customer service could suffer due to a declining
quality of our workforce or, alternatively, our earnings could decrease if we increase our wage rates.  Inability to acquire and provide
quality merchandise could adversely affect our sales and results of operations.  We are dependent upon our vendors continuing to supply us
with quality merchandise. If our merchandise offerings do not meet our customers' expectations regarding quality and safety, we could experience lost sales, increased costs and exposure to legal and reputational risk. All of our vendors must
comply with applicable product safety laws, and we are dependent on them to ensure that the products we buy comply with all safety and quality standards. Events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose us
to government enforcement action or private litigation and result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. To the extent our suppliers are subject to added government regulation of their product design and/or manufacturing processes, the
cost of the merchandise we purchase may rise. In addition, negative customer perceptions regarding the safety or quality of the products we sell could cause our customers to seek alternative sources for their needs, resulting in lost
sales. In those circumstances, it may be difficult and costly for us to regain the confidence of our customers. Moreover, if any of our significant vendors experience financial difficulties or otherwise are unable to deliver merchandise to us on a
timely basis, or at all, we could have product shortages in our stores that could adversely affect customers’ perceptions of us and cause us to lose customers and sales.  Our ability to grow depends in part on new store openings, existing store remodels and expansions and effective utilization of our existing supply chain and hub network. 
Our continued growth and success will depend in part on our ability to open and operate new stores and expand and remodel existing stores to meet
customers’ needs on a timely and profitable basis. Accomplishing our new and existing store expansion goals will depend upon a number of factors, including the ability to partner with developers and landlords to obtain suitable sites for
new and expanded stores at acceptable costs, the hiring and training of qualified personnel, particularly at the store management level, and the integration of new stores into existing operations. There can be no assurance we will be able to achieve
our store expansion goals, manage our growth effectively, successfully integrate the planned new stores into our operations or operate our new, remodeled and expanded stores profitably.  In addition, we extensively utilize hub stores, our supply chain and logistics management techniques to efficiently stock our stores. If we fail to effectively utilize our existing hubs and/or supply
chains, we could experience inappropriate inventory levels in our stores, which could adversely affect our sales volume and/or our margins. 
  13 


Table of Contents
Our failure to protect our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our brand name.
 We believe our continued strong sales growth is driven in significant part by our brand name. The value in our brand name and its
continued effectiveness in driving our sales growth are dependent to a significant degree on our ability to maintain our reputation for safety, high product quality, friendliness, service, trustworthy advice, integrity and business ethics. Any
negative publicity about these types of concerns may reduce demand for our merchandise. Failure to comply with ethical, social, product, labor and environmental standards, or related political considerations, could also jeopardize our reputation and
potentially lead to various adverse consumer actions. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our
reputation. Failure to protect the security of our customers’, employees’ and company information could subject us to costly regulatory enforcement actions, expose us to litigation and our reputation could suffer. Damage to our reputation
or loss of consumer confidence for any of these or other reasons could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. 
Business interruptions may negatively impact our store hours, operability of our computer and other systems, availability of merchandise and otherwise
have a material negative effect on our sales and our business.  War or acts of terrorism, political unrest, hurricanes, windstorms, fires,
earthquakes and other natural or other disasters or the threat of any of them, may result in certain of our stores being closed for a period of time or permanently or have a negative impact on our ability to obtain merchandise available for sale in
our stores. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries. If imported goods become difficult or impossible to bring into the United States, and if we cannot obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar costs, our sales and
profit margins may be negatively affected.  In the event that commercial transportation is curtailed or substantially delayed, our business
may be adversely impacted, as we may have difficulty shipping merchandise to our distribution centers and stores resulting in lost sales and/or a potential loss of customer loyalty. Transportation issues could also cause us to cancel purchase orders
if we are unable to receive merchandise in our distribution centers.  We rely extensively on our computer systems to manage inventory, process
transactions and summarize results. Our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches and catastrophic events. If our systems are damaged or fail to function
properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, inability to
process purchase orders and/or a potential loss of customer loyalty, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  Healthcare
reform legislation could have a negative impact on our business.  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “Patient
Act”) as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by Congress and state legislatures may have an impact on our business. Based on the current form of the Patient Act, the impact could be extensive and could increase our
employee healthcare-related costs. While the significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will occur after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could have a
significant, negative impact on our business.  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
None. 
  14 


Table of Contents
Item 2. Properties 
The following table reflects the square footage and number of leased and owned properties for our stores as of August 25, 2012: 
 












 
  
No. of Stores
 
  
Square Footage
 

 Leased
  
 
2,553
  
  
 
16,217,428
  

 Owned
  
 
2,453
  
  
 
16,488,376
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
5,006
  
  
 
32,705,804
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 We have approximately 4.0 million square feet in distribution centers servicing our stores, of which approximately
1.3 million square feet is leased and the remainder is owned. Our distribution centers are located in Arizona, California, Georgia, Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas and Mexico. Our primary store support center is located in
Memphis, Tennessee, and consists of approximately 260,000 square feet. We also have two additional store support centers located in Monterrey, Mexico and Chihuahua, Mexico. The ALLDATA headquarters building in Elk Grove, California, is leased, and
we also own or lease other properties that are not material in the aggregate.  Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 In 2004, we acquired a store site in Mount Ephraim, New Jersey that had previously been the site of a gasoline service station and
contained evidence of groundwater contamination. Upon acquisition, we voluntarily reported the groundwater contamination issue to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and entered into a Voluntary Remediation Agreement providing for
the remediation of the contamination associated with the property. We have conducted and paid for (at an immaterial cost to us) remediation of contamination on the property. We are also investigating, and will be addressing, potential vapor
intrusion impacts in downgradient residences and businesses. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection has indicated that it will assert that we are liable for the downgradient impacts under a joint and severable liability theory, and we
intend to contest any such assertions due to the existence of other sources of contamination in the area of the property. Pursuant to the Voluntary Remediation Agreement, upon completion of all remediation required by the agreement, we believe we
are eligible to be reimbursed up to 75 percent of qualified remediation costs by the State of New Jersey. We have asked the state for clarification that the agreement applies to off-site work, and the state is considering the request. Although the
aggregate amount of additional costs that we may incur pursuant to the remediation cannot currently be ascertained, we do not currently believe that fulfillment of our obligations under the agreement or otherwise will result in costs that are
material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.  We are involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the
conduct of our business, including several lawsuits containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs are current and former hourly and salaried employees who allege various wage and hour violations and unlawful termination practices. We
do not currently believe that, either individually or in the aggregate, these matters will result in liabilities material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures  Not applicable. 
  15 


Table of Contents
PART II  Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “AZO.” On October 15, 2012, there were 2,868 stockholders of
record, which does not include the number of beneficial owners whose shares were represented by security position listings.  We currently do
not pay a dividend on our common stock. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations imposed by Nevada law. Any future payment of dividends would be dependent upon our financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and cash flow.
 The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of common stock, as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, for the
periods indicated:   












 
  
Price Range of Common Stock
 

  
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Fiscal Year Ended August 25, 2012:
  



  




 Fourth quarter
  
$
391.90
  
  
$
353.38
  

 Third quarter
  
$
399.10
  
  
$
353.80
  

 Second quarter
  
$
356.80
  
  
$
313.11
  

 First quarter
  
$
341.89
  
  
$
303.00
  





 Fiscal Year Ended August 27, 2011:
  



  




 Fourth quarter
  
$
306.00
  
  
$
266.25
  

 Third quarter
  
$
287.00
  
  
$
247.36
  

 Second quarter
  
$
276.00
  
  
$
246.26
  

 First quarter
  
$
253.50
  
  
$
209.53
  
 During 1998, the Company announced a program permitting the Company to repurchase a portion of its outstanding shares not
to exceed a dollar maximum established by the Company’s Board of Directors. The program was most recently amended on September 28, 2012, to increase the repurchase authorization by $750 million to raise the cumulative share repurchase
authorization to $12.65 billion from $11.90 billion.  Shares of common stock repurchased by the Company during the quarter ended
August 25, 2012, were as follows:   




















 Period
  
TotalNumber ofSharesPurchased
 
  
AveragePrice Paidper Share
 
  
Total Number ofShares 
Purchasedas Part of PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs
 
  
Maximum DollarValue that 
MayYet Be PurchasedUnder the Plansor Programs
 

 May 6, 2012, to June 2, 2012
  
 
424,000
  
  
$
371.72
  
  
 
424,000
  
  
$
678,290,987
  

 June 3, 2012, to June 30, 2012
  
 
594,610
  
  
 
379.66
  
  
 
594,610
  
  
 
452,539,653
  

 July 1, 2012, to July 28, 2012
  
 
97,900
  
  
 
357.29
  
  
 
97,900
  
  
 
417,560,788
  

 July 29, 2012, to August 25, 2012
  
 
168,094
  
  
 
367.67
  
  
 
168,094
  
  
 
355,757,349
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
1,284,604
  
  
$
373.77
  
  
 
1,284,604
  
  
$
355,757,349
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company also repurchased, at fair value, an additional 24,113 shares in fiscal 2012, 30,864 shares in fiscal 2011,
and 30,617 shares in fiscal 2010 from employees electing to sell their stock under the Company’s Sixth Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Employee Plan”), qualified under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue
Code, under which all eligible employees may purchase AutoZone’s common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price of the common stock on the first day or last day of each calendar quarter through payroll deductions. Maximum permitted annual
purchases are $15,000 per employee or 10 percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the Employee Plan, 19,403 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2012, 21,608 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2011, and 26,620 shares were sold to
employees in fiscal 2010. At August 25, 2012, 252,972 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under the Employee Plan. 
  16 


Table of Contents
Once executives have reached the maximum purchases under the Employee Plan, the Fifth Amended and Restated
Executive Stock Purchase Plan (the “Executive Plan”) permits all eligible executives to purchase AutoZone’s common stock up to 25 percent of his or her annual salary and bonus. Purchases by executives under the Executive Plan were
3,937 shares in fiscal 2012, 1,719 shares in fiscal 2011, and 1,483 shares in fiscal 2010. At August 25, 2012, 252,400 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under the Executive Plan. 
Stock Performance Graph  The graph below
presents changes in the value of AutoZone’s stock as compared to Standard & Poor’s 500 Composite Index (“S&P 500”) and to Standard & Poor’s Retail Index (“S&P Retail Index”) for the
five-year period beginning August 25, 2007 and ending August 25, 2012.    


  17 


Table of Contents
Item 6. Selected Financial Data 
 
























 (in thousands, except per share data, same store sales and
selected operating data)
  
Fiscal Year Ended August
 

  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008 (1)
 

 Income Statement Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Net sales
  
$
8,603,863
  
 
$
8,072,973
  
 
$
7,362,618
  
 
$
6,816,824
  
 
$
6,522,706
  

 Cost of sales, including warehouse and delivery expenses
  
 
4,171,827
  
 
 
3,953,510
  
 
 
3,650,874
  
 
 
3,400,375
  
 
 
3,254,645
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
4,432,036
  
 
 
4,119,463
  
 
 
3,711,744
  
 
 
3,416,449
  
 
 
3,268,061
  

 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
2,803,145
  
 
 
2,624,660
  
 
 
2,392,330
  
 
 
2,240,387
  
 
 
2,143,927
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
1,628,891
  
 
 
1,494,803
  
 
 
1,319,414
  
 
 
1,176,062
  
 
 
1,124,134
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
175,905
  
 
 
170,557
  
 
 
158,909
  
 
 
142,316
  
 
 
116,745
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
1,452,986
  
 
 
1,324,246
  
 
 
1,160,505
  
 
 
1,033,746
  
 
 
1,007,389
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
522,613
  
 
 
475,272
  
 
 
422,194
  
 
 
376,697
  
 
 
365,783
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
930,373
  
 
$
848,974
  
 
$
738,311
  
 
$
657,049
  
 
$
641,606
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
$
23.48
  
 
$
19.47
  
 
$
14.97
  
 
$
11.73
  
 
$
10.04
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Adjusted weighted average shares for diluted earnings per share
  
 
39,625
  
 
 
43,603
  
 
 
49,304
  
 
 
55,992
  
 
 
63,875
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Same Store Sales
  



 



 



 



 




 Increase in domestic comparable store net sales (2) 
  
 
3.9
% 
 
 
6.3
% 
 
 
5.4
% 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
 
0.4
% 

 Balance Sheet Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Current assets
  
$
2,978,946
  
 
$
2,792,425
  
 
$
2,611,821
  
 
$
2,561,730
  
 
$
2,586,301
  

 Working (deficit) capital
  
 
(676,646
) 
 
 
(638,471
) 
 
 
(452,139
) 
 
 
(145,022
) 
 
 
66,981
  

 Total assets
  
 
6,265,639
  
 
 
5,869,602
  
 
 
5,571,594
  
 
 
5,318,405
  
 
 
5,257,112
  

 Current liabilities
  
 
3,655,592
  
 
 
3,430,896
  
 
 
3,063,960
  
 
 
2,706,752
  
 
 
2,519,320
  

 Debt
  
 
3,768,183
  
 
 
3,351,682
  
 
 
2,908,486
  
 
 
2,726,900
  
 
 
2,250,000
  

 Long-term capital leases
  
 
72,414
  
 
 
61,360
  
 
 
66,333
  
 
 
38,029
  
 
 
48,144
  

 Stockholders’ (deficit) equity
  
 
(1,548,025
) 
 
 
(1,254,232
) 
 
 
(738,765
) 
 
 
(433,074
) 
 
 
229,687
  

 Selected Operating Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Number of stores at beginning of year
  
 
4,813
  
 
 
4,627
  
 
 
4,417
  
 
 
4,240
  
 
 
4,056
  

 New stores
  
 
193
  
 
 
188
  
 
 
213
  
 
 
180
  
 
 
185
  

 Closed stores
  
 
—  
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
1
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net new stores
  
 
193
  
 
 
186
  
 
 
210
  
 
 
177
  
 
 
184
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Relocated stores
  
 
10
  
 
 
10
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
9
  
 
 
14
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Number of stores at end of year
  
 
5,006
  
 
 
4,813
  
 
 
4,627
  
 
 
4,417
  
 
 
4,240
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Domestic commercial programs
  
 
3,053
  
 
 
2,659
  
 
 
2,424
  
 
 
2,303
  
 
 
2,236
  

 Total store square footage (in thousands)
  
 
32,706
  
 
 
31,337
  
 
 
30,027
  
 
 
28,550
  
 
 
27,291
  

 Average square footage per store
  
 
6,533
  
 
 
6,511
  
 
 
6,490
  
 
 
6,464
  
 
 
6,437
  

 Increase in store square footage
  
 
4.4
% 
 
 
4.4
% 
 
 
5.2
% 
 
 
4.6
% 
 
 
4.8
% 

 Inventory per store (in thousands)
  
$
525
  
 
$
512
  
 
$
498
  
 
$
500
  
 
$
507
  

 Average net sales per store (in thousands)
  
$
1,716
  
 
$
1,675
  
 
$
1,595
  
 
$
1,541
  
 
$
1,539
  

 Net sales per store square foot
  
$
263
  
 
$
258
  
 
$
246
  
 
$
239
  
 
$
239
  

 Total employees at end of year (in thousands)
  
 
70
  
 
 
65
  
 
 
63
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
57
  

 Inventory turnover (3)
  
 
1.6x
  
 
 
1.6x
  
 
 
1.6x
  
 
 
1.5x
  
 
 
1.6x
  

 Accounts payable to inventory ratio
  
 
111.4
% 
 
 
111.7
% 
 
 
105.6
% 
 
 
96.0
% 
 
 
95.0
% 

 After-tax return on invested capital (4)
  
 
33.0
% 
 
 
31.3
% 
 
 
27.6
% 
 
 
24.4
% 
 
 
23.9
% 

 Adjusted debt to EBITDAR (5)
  
 
2.5
  
 
 
2.4
  
 
 
2.4
  
 
 
2.5
  
 
 
2.2
  

 Net cash provided by operating activities (in thousands)
  
$
1,223,981
  
 
$
1,291,538
  
 
$
1,196,252
  
 
$
923,808
  
 
$
921,100
  

 Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt (in thousands) (6)
  
$
949,627
  
 
$
1,023,927
  
 
$
947,643
  
 
$
673,347
  
 
$
690,621
  
  


(1)
The fiscal year ended August 30, 2008 consisted of 53 weeks. 


(2)
The domestic comparable sales increases are based on sales for all domestic stores open at least one year. Relocated stores are included in the same store sales
computation based on the year the original store was opened. Closed store sales are included in the same store sales computation up to the week it closes, and excluded from the computation for all periods subsequent to closing.



(3)
Inventory turnover is calculated as cost of sales divided by the average merchandise inventory balance over the trailing 5 quarters. 


(4)
After-tax return on invested capital is defined as after-tax operating profit (excluding rent charges) divided by average invested capital (which includes a factor
to capitalize operating leases). See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
  18 


Table of Contents


(5)
Adjusted debt to EBITDAR is defined as the sum of total debt, capital lease obligations and annual rents times six; divided by net income plus interest, taxes,
depreciation, amortization, rent and share-based compensation expense. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 


(6)
Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt is defined as the change in cash and cash equivalents less the change in debt plus treasury stock purchases.
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  We are the nation’s leading retailer, and a leading distributor, of automotive replacement parts and accessories in the United States. We began operations in 1979 and at August 25, 2012,
operated 4,685 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and 321 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard
parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 25, 2012, in 3,053 of our domestic stores, we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to
local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector accounts. We have commercial programs in select stores in Mexico as well. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software through
www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. We
do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.  Executive Summary 
We achieved strong performance in fiscal 2012, delivering record net income of $930.4 million, a 9.6% increase over the prior year, and sales growth of
$530.9 million, a 6.6% increase over the prior year. We completed the year with growth in all areas of our business. We are pleased with the results of our retail business and the increase in our commercial business, where we continue to build our
internal sales force and continue to refine our parts assortment. There are various factors occurring within the current economy that affect both our customers and our industry, including the impact of the recession, continued high unemployment, and
other challenging economic conditions, which we believe have aided our sales growth during the year. As consumers’ cash flows have decreased due to these factors, we believe consumers have become more likely to keep their current vehicles
longer and perform repair and maintenance in order to keep those vehicles well maintained. Given the nature of these macroeconomic factors, we cannot predict whether or for how long these trends will continue, nor can we predict to what degree these
trends will impact us in the future.  Another macroeconomic factor affecting our customers and our industry is gas prices. We believe gas
prices have adversely impacted our customers’ behavior with respect to driving and maintaining their cars. With approximately 11 billion gallons of unleaded gas consumed each month across the U.S., each $1 decrease at the pump contributes
approximately $11 billion of additional spending capacity to consumers each month. During fiscal 2012, the average price per gallon of unleaded gasoline in the United States remained at a high level of $3.57 per gallon compared to $3.33 per gallon
during fiscal 2011. We continue to believe gas prices remain at overall high levels, thereby reducing discretionary spending for all consumers, and, in particular, our customers. Given the unpredictability of gas prices, we cannot predict whether
gas prices will increase or decrease, nor can we predict how any future changes in gas prices will impact our sales in future periods.  During
fiscal 2012, failure and maintenance related categories represented the largest portion of our sales mix, at approximately 83% of total sales, with failure related categories continuing to be our strongest performers. While we have not experienced
any fundamental shifts in our category sales mix as compared to previous years, we did experience a slight decline in sales of the maintenance category. We believe maintenance related products were negatively impacted by weather. Because of the
unusually mild winter across parts of the U.S., we saw less wear on maintenance related products compared to the prior fiscal year. We remain focused on refining and expanding our product assortment to ensure we have the best merchandise at the
right price in each of our categories. 
  19 


Table of Contents
Our primary response to fluctuations in the demand for the products we sell is to adjust our advertising
message, store staffing, and product assortment. We continue to believe we are well positioned to help our customers save money and meet their needs in a challenging macroeconomic environment. 
The two statistics we believe have the closest correlation to our market growth over the long-term are miles driven and the number of seven year old or
older vehicles on the road.  Miles Driven  We believe that as the number of miles driven increases, consumers’ vehicles are more likely to need service and maintenance, resulting in an increase in the need for automotive hard parts and
maintenance items. Prior to the recession, we had seen a close correlation between annual miles driven and our annual net sales; however, this correlation has not existed in the recent recessionary period. Since the beginning of the fiscal year and
through June 2012 (latest publicly available information), miles driven remained relatively flat compared to the same period last year. However, during the first two quarters of calendar 2012, miles driven improved by 1.1% compared to the prior year
period. Throughout this fiscal year and contrary to the correlation experienced prior to the recession, sales have grown at a consistent rate, while miles driven have grown at a slower rate than what we have historically experienced. We believe that
the impact of changes in other factors, primarily an increase in the average age of vehicles, more than offset the impact of miles driven. Over the long-term, we believe that annual miles driven will return to pre-recession low single digit growth
rates, and the correlation between annual miles driven and the annual sales growth of our industry should return.  Seven Year Old or Older
Vehicles  Since 2008, new vehicle sales have been significantly lower than historical levels, which we believe contributed to an increasing
number of seven year old or older vehicles on the road. We estimate vehicles are driven an average of approximately 12,500 miles each year. In seven years, the average miles driven equates to approximately 87,500 miles. Our experience is that at
this point in a vehicle’s life, most vehicles are not covered by warranties and increased maintenance is needed to keep the vehicle operating. According to data provided by the Automotive Aftermarket Industry Association, as of December 2011,
the average age of vehicles on the road is 10.8 years as compared to 10.6 years as of December 2010. As the number of seven year old or older vehicles on the road increases, we expect an increase in demand for the products that we sell. Although we
have seen an improvement in new car sales during fiscal 2011 and 2012, in the near term, we expect the aging vehicle population to continue to increase, as consumers keep their cars longer in an effort to save money during this uncertain economy.
 Results of Operations 
Fiscal 2012 Compared with Fiscal 2011 
For the fiscal year ended August 25, 2012, we reported net sales of $8.604 billion compared with $8.073 billion for the year ended August 27,
2011, a 6.6% increase from fiscal 2011. This growth was driven primarily by an increase in domestic same store sales of 3.9% and sales from new stores of $214.2 million. The improvement in domestic same store sales was driven by higher transaction
value, partially offset by decreased transaction counts.  At August 25, 2012, we operated 4,685 domestic stores and 321 stores in Mexico,
compared with 4,534 domestic stores and 279 stores in Mexico at August 27, 2011. We reported a total auto parts (domestic and Mexico operations) sales increase of 6.5% for fiscal 2012.  Gross profit for fiscal 2012 was $4.432 billion, or 51.5% of net sales, compared with $4.119 billion, or 51.0% of net sales for fiscal 2011. The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to
higher merchandise margins (19 basis points) and lower shrink expense (17 basis points). Lower acquisition costs drove the higher merchandise margins for the year.  Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2012 increased to $2.803 billion, or 32.6% of net sales, from $2.625 billion, or 32.5% of net sales for fiscal 2011. The slight increase
in operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was the result of higher self-insurance costs (42 basis points); partially offset by lower incentive compensation (30 basis points). 
  20 


Table of Contents
Interest expense, net for fiscal 2012 was $175.9 million compared with $170.6 million during fiscal 2011.
This increase was primarily due to higher average borrowing levels over the comparable prior year period; partially offset by a decline in borrowing rates. Average borrowings for fiscal 2012 were $3.507 billion, compared with $3.103 billion for
fiscal 2011 and weighted average borrowing rates were 4.7% for fiscal 2012, compared to 5.1% for fiscal 2011.  Our effective income tax rate
was 36.0% of pre-tax income for fiscal 2012 compared to 35.9% for fiscal 2011.  Net income for fiscal 2012 increased by 9.6% to $930.4 million,
and diluted earnings per share increased 20.6% to $23.48 from $19.47 in fiscal 2011. The impact of the fiscal 2012 stock repurchases on diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2012 was an increase of approximately $0.96. 
Fiscal 2011 Compared with Fiscal 2010 
For the fiscal year ended August 27, 2011, we reported net sales of $8.073 billion compared with $7.363 billion for the year ended August 28,
2010, a 9.6% increase from fiscal 2010. This growth was driven primarily by an increase in domestic same store sales of 6.3% and sales from new stores of $216.8 million. The improvement in domestic same store sales was driven by higher transaction
value and, to a lesser extent, higher transaction count trends. Higher transaction value is attributable to product inflation due to more complex, costly products and commodity price increases. 
At August 27, 2011, we operated 4,534 domestic stores and 279 stores in Mexico, compared with 4,389 domestic stores and 238 stores in Mexico at
August 28, 2010. We reported a total auto parts (domestic and Mexico operations) sales increase of 9.6% for fiscal 2011.  Gross profit
for fiscal 2011 was $4.119 billion, or 51.0% of net sales, compared with $3.712 billion, or 50.4% of net sales for fiscal 2010. The improvement in gross margin was primarily attributable to lower shrink expense (32 basis points) and higher
merchandise margins (26 basis points). Increased penetration of Duralast product sales, as well as retail price increases on commodity based products, drove the higher merchandise margins, which were partially offset by increased penetration of
commercial sales.  Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2011 increased to $2.625 billion, or 32.5% of net sales,
from $2.392 billion, or 32.5% of net sales for fiscal 2010. The slight increase in operating expenses, as a percentage of sales, was the result of higher fuel costs (20 basis points) and increased incentive compensation costs (17 basis points),
partially offset by leverage due to higher sales volumes.  Interest expense, net for fiscal 2011 was $170.6 million compared with $158.9
million during fiscal 2010. This increase was primarily due to higher average borrowing levels over the comparable prior year period; partially offset by a decline in borrowing rates. Average borrowings for fiscal 2011 were $3.103 billion, compared
with $2.752 billion for fiscal 2010 and weighted average borrowing rates were 5.1% for fiscal 2011, compared to 5.3% for fiscal 2010.  Our
effective income tax rate was 35.9% of pre-tax income for fiscal 2011 compared to 36.4% for fiscal 2010.  Net income for fiscal 2011 increased
by 15.0% to $849.0 million, and diluted earnings per share increased 30.0% to $19.47 from $14.97 in fiscal 2010. The impact of the fiscal 2011 stock repurchases on diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2011 was an increase of approximately $1.15.
 Seasonality and Quarterly Periods  Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales typically occurring in the spring and summer months of February through September, in which average weekly per-store sales historically
have been about 15% to 25% higher than in the slower months of December and January. During short periods of time, a store’s sales can be affected by weather conditions. Extremely hot or extremely cold weather may enhance sales by causing parts
to fail; thereby increasing sales of seasonal products. Mild or rainy weather tends to soften sales, as parts failure rates are lower in mild weather, with elective maintenance deferred during periods of rainy weather. Over the longer term, the
effects of weather balance out, as we have stores throughout the United States, Puerto Rico and Mexico. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year consists of 12 weeks, and the fourth quarter
consisted of 16 weeks in 2012, 2011, and 2010. Because the fourth quarter contains the seasonally high sales volume and consists of 16 or 17 weeks, compared with 12 weeks for each of the first three quarters, our fourth quarter represents a
disproportionate share of the annual net sales and net income. The fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 represented 32.1% of annual sales and 34.8% of net income; the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 represented 32.7% of annual sales and 35.5% of net
income; and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 represented 33.2% of annual sales and 36.4% of net income.   Liquidity and Capital
Resources  The primary source of our liquidity is our cash flows realized through the sale of automotive parts and products. Net cash
provided by operating activities was $1.224 billion in fiscal 2012, $1.292 billion in fiscal 2011, and $1.196 billion in fiscal 2010. Cash flows from operations are unfavorable to last year due to the change in inventories net of payables, offset by
the growth in net income. We had an accounts payable to inventory ratio of 111.4% at August 25, 2012, 111.7% at August 27, 2011, and 105.6% at August 28, 2010. Our inventory increases are primarily attributable to an increased number
of stores and to a lesser extent, our efforts to update product assortments in all of our stores. Many of our vendors have supported our initiative to update our product assortments by providing extended payment terms. These extended payment terms
have allowed us to continue our high accounts payable to inventory ratio.  Our primary capital requirement has been the funding of our
continued new-store development program. From the beginning of fiscal 2010 to August 25, 2012, we have opened 594 new stores. Net cash flows used in investing activities were $374.8 million in fiscal 2012, compared to $319.0 million in fiscal
2011, and $307.4 million in fiscal 2010. We invested $378.1 million in capital assets in fiscal 2012, compared to $321.6 million in fiscal 2011, and $315.4 million in fiscal 2010. The increase in capital expenditures during this time was primarily
attributable to the number and types of stores opened, increased investment in our existing stores, and continued investment in our hub store initiative. New store openings were 193 for fiscal 2012, 188 for fiscal 2011, and 213 for fiscal 2010. We
also completed 40 hub projects in fiscal 2012 and 20 hub projects in fiscal 2011 as part of our ongoing hub initiative. We invest a portion of our assets held by the Company’s wholly owned insurance captive in marketable securities. We acquired
$45.7 million of marketable securities in fiscal 2012, $43.8 million in fiscal 2011, and $56.2 million in fiscal 2010. We had proceeds from the sale of marketable securities of $42.4 million in fiscal 2012, $43.1 million in fiscal 2011, and $52.6
million in fiscal 2010. Capital asset disposals provided $6.6 million in fiscal 2012, $3.3 million in fiscal 2011, and $11.5 million in fiscal 2010.  Net cash used in financing activities was $843.4 million in fiscal 2012, $973.8 million in fiscal 2011, and $883.5 million in fiscal 2010. The net cash used in financing activities reflected purchases of
treasury stock which totaled $1.363 billion for fiscal 2012, $1.467 billion for fiscal 2011, and $1.124 billion for fiscal 2010. The treasury stock purchases in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 were primarily funded by cash flows from operations and by
increases in debt levels. Proceeds from issuance of debt were $500.0 million for fiscal 2012 and $500.0 million for fiscal 2011; there were no debt issuances in fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2012, the proceeds from the issuance of debt were used for the
repayment of a portion of commercial paper borrowings and general corporate purposes, including for working capital requirements, capital expenditures, store openings and stock repurchases. In fiscal 2011, we used the proceeds from the issuance of
debt to repay our $199.3 million term loan in November 2010, to repay a portion of our commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes. There were no repayments of debt for fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2010. Net payments of commercial paper
and short-term borrowings were $81.3 million for fiscal 2012. In 2011 and 2010, we received proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and short term borrowing in the amount of $141.5 million and $181.6 million, respectively. 
During fiscal 2013, we expect to invest in our business at an increased rate as compared to fiscal 2012. Our investments are expected to be directed
primarily to our new-store development program and enhancements to existing stores and infrastructure. The amount of our investments in our new-store program is impacted by different factors, including such factors as whether the building and land
are purchased (requiring higher investment) or leased (generally lower investment), located in the United States, Mexico or Brazil, or located in urban or rural areas. During fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011, and fiscal 2010, our capital expenditures have
increased by approximately 18%, 2% and 16%, respectively, as compared to the prior year. Our mix of store openings has moved away from build-to-suit leases (lower initial capital investment) to ground leases and land purchases (higher initial
capital investment), resulting in increased capital expenditures per store over the previous three years, and we expect this trend to continue during the fiscal year ending August 31, 2013. 
  22 


Table of Contents
In addition to the building and land costs, our new-store development program requires working capital,
predominantly for inventories. Historically, we have negotiated extended payment terms from suppliers, reducing the working capital required and resulting in a high accounts payable to inventory ratio. We plan to continue leveraging our inventory
purchases; however, our ability to do so may be limited by our vendors’ capacity to factor their receivables from us. Certain vendors participate in financing arrangements with financial institutions whereby they factor their receivables from
us, allowing them to receive payment on our invoices at a discounted rate.  Depending on the timing and magnitude of our future investments
(either in the form of leased or purchased properties or acquisitions), we anticipate that we will rely primarily on internally generated funds and available borrowing capacity to support a majority of our capital expenditures, working capital
requirements and stock repurchases. The balance may be funded through new borrowings. We anticipate that we will be able to obtain such financing in view of our credit ratings and favorable experiences in the debt markets in the past. 
Our cash balances are held in various locations around the world. Of the $103 million and $98 million of cash and cash equivalents at August 25,
2012, and August 27, 2011, respectively, $7.8 million and $6.7 million, respectively, were held outside of the U.S. and were generally utilized to support liquidity needs in our foreign operations. We intend to continue to permanently reinvest
the cash in our foreign operations.  For the fiscal year ended August 25, 2012, our after-tax return on invested capital
(“ROIC”) was 33.0% as compared to 31.3% for the comparable prior year period. ROIC is calculated as after-tax operating profit (excluding rent charges) divided by average invested capital (which includes a factor to capitalize operating
leases). ROIC increased primarily due to increased after-tax operating profit. We use ROIC to evaluate whether we are effectively using our capital resources and believe it is an important indicator of our overall operating performance. 
Debt Facilities  In September 2011, we
amended and restated our $800 million revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in July 2012. The capacity under the revolving credit facility was increased to $1.0 billion. This credit facility is available to primarily support
commercial paper borrowings, letters of credit and other short-term, unsecured bank loans. The capacity of the credit facility may be increased to $1.250 billion prior to the maturity date at our election and subject to bank credit capacity and
approval, may include up to $200 million in letters of credit, and may include up to $175 million in capital leases each fiscal year. Under the revolving credit facility, we may borrow funds consisting of Eurodollar loans or base rate loans.
Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined Eurodollar rate, defined as the London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus the applicable percentage, as defined in the revolving credit facility, depending upon our senior, unsecured,
(non-credit enhanced) long-term debt rating. Interest accrues on base rate loans as defined in the revolving credit facility. We also have the option to borrow funds under the terms of a swingline loan subfacility. The revolving credit facility
expires in September 2016.  The revolving credit facility agreement requires that our consolidated interest coverage ratio as of the last day
of each quarter shall be no less than 2.50:1. This ratio is defined as the ratio of (i) consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and rents to (ii) consolidated interest expense plus consolidated rents. Our consolidated interest
coverage ratio as of August 25, 2012 was 4.58:1.  As the available balance is reduced by commercial paper borrowings and certain
outstanding letters of credit, we had $454.9 million of available capacity under our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility at August 25, 2012.  In June 2010, we entered into a letter of credit facility that allows us to request the participating bank issue letters of credit on our behalf up to an aggregate amount of $100 million. The letter of
credit facility is in addition to the letters of credit that may be issued under the revolving credit facility. As of August 25, 2012, we have $98.7 million in letters of credit outstanding under the letter of credit facility, which expires in
June 2013. 
  23 


Table of Contents
On April 24, 2012, we issued $500 million in 3.700% Senior Notes due April 2022 under our shelf
registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 17, 2012 (the “Shelf Registration”). The Shelf Registration allows us to sell an indeterminate amount in debt securities to fund general corporate
purposes, including repaying, redeeming or repurchasing outstanding debt and for working capital, capital expenditures, new store openings, stock repurchases and acquisitions. Proceeds from the debt issuance on April 24, 2012, were used to
repay a portion of the commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes. On November 15, 2010, we issued $500 million in 4.000% Senior Notes due 2020 under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on July 29, 2008. We used the proceeds from the November 15, 2010 issuance of debt to repay the principal due relating to the 4.750% Senior Notes that matured on November 15, 2010, to repay a portion of the commercial paper
borrowings and for general corporate purposes.  The 5.750% Senior Notes issued in July 2009 and the 6.500% and 7.125% Senior Notes issued
during August 2008, (collectively, the “Notes”), are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the Notes are downgraded. The Notes, along with the 3.700% Senior Notes issued in April 2012 and the 4.000% Senior
Notes issued in during November 2010, also contain a provision that repayment of the notes may be accelerated if we experience a change in control (as defined in the agreements). Our borrowings under our other senior notes contain minimal covenants,
primarily restrictions on liens. Under our revolving credit facility, covenants include limitations on total indebtedness, restrictions on liens, a maximum debt to earnings ratio, and a change of control provision that may require acceleration of
the repayment obligations under certain circumstances. These covenants are in addition to the consolidated interest coverage ratio discussed above. All of the repayment obligations under our borrowing arrangements may be accelerated and come due
prior to the scheduled payment date if covenants are breached or an event of default occurs.  As of August 25, 2012, we were in
compliance with all covenants related to our borrowing arrangements and expect to remain in compliance with those covenants in the future. 
For the fiscal year ended August 25, 2012, our adjusted debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and share-based
compensation expense (“EBITDAR”) ratio was 2.5:1 as compared to 2.4:1 as of the comparable prior year end. We calculate adjusted debt as the sum of total debt, capital lease obligations and rent times six; and we calculate EBITDAR by
adding interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and share-based compensation expense to net income. We target our debt levels to a ratio of adjusted debt to EBITDAR in order to maintain our investment grade credit ratings. We believe this
is important information for the management of our debt levels.  Stock Repurchases 
During 1998, we announced a program permitting us to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares not to exceed a dollar maximum established by our
Board of Directors (the “Board”). On March 7, 2012, the Board voted to increase the authorization by $750 million to raise the cumulative share repurchase authorization from $11.15 billion to $11.90 billion. From January 1998 to
August 25, 2012, we have repurchased a total of 131.1 million shares at an aggregate cost of $11.5 billion. We repurchased 3.8 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $1.363 billion during fiscal 2012, 5.6 million
shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $1.467 billion during fiscal 2011, and 6.4 million shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $1.124 billion during fiscal 2010. Considering cumulative repurchases as of August 25, 2012,
we have $355.8 million remaining under the Board of Director’s authorization to repurchase our common stock.  Subsequent to
August 25, 2012, the Board voted to increase the authorization by $750 million to raise the cumulative share repurchase authorization from $11.90 billion to $12.65 billion. We have repurchased 629,168 shares of common stock at an aggregate cost
of $234.6 million during fiscal 2013. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Financial Commitments  The following table shows our significant contractual obligations as of August 25, 2012:   
























 (in thousands)
  
TotalContractual
Obligations
 
  
Payment Due by Period
 

  
  
Less than1 
year
 
  
Between1-3 years
 
  
Between3-5 years
 
  
Over5 years
 

 Long-term debt (1)
  
$
3,718,302
  
  
$
968,302
  
  
$
1,000,000
  
  
$
500,000
  
  
$
1,250,000
  

 Interest payments (2)
  
 
713,417
  
  
 
165,529
  
  
 
232,800
  
  
 
134,775
  
  
 
180,313
  

 Operating leases (3)
  
 
1,910,410
  
  
 
217,844
  
  
 
401,596
  
  
 
332,535
  
  
 
958,435
  

 Capital leases (4)
  
 
105,404
  
  
 
29,842
  
  
 
53,379
  
  
 
22,183
  
  
 
—  
  

 Self-insurance reserves (5)
  
 
179,673
  
  
 
63,484
  
  
 
49,306
  
  
 
25,375
  
  
 
41,508
  

 Construction commitments
  
 
25,604
  
  
 
25,604
  
  
 
—  
 
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
6,652,810
  
  
$
1,470,605
  
  
$
1,737,081
  
  
$
1,014,868
  
  
$
2,430,256
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Long-term debt balances represent principal maturities, excluding interest. 


(2)
Represents obligations for interest payments on long-term debt. 


(3)
Operating lease obligations are inclusive of amounts accrued within deferred rent and closed store obligations reflected in our consolidated balance sheets.



(4)
Capital lease obligations include related interest. 


(5)
Self-insurance reserves reflect estimates based on actuarial calculations. Although these obligations do not have scheduled maturities, the timing of future payments
are predictable based upon historical patterns. Accordingly, we reflect the net present value of these obligations in our consolidated balance sheets.  We have pension obligations reflected in our consolidated balance sheet that are not reflected in the table above due to the absence of scheduled maturities and the nature of the account. During fiscal
2012, we made contributions of $15.4 million to the pension plan. We expect to make contributions of approximately $9 million during fiscal 2013; however a change to the expected cash funding may be impacted by a change in interest rates or a change
in the actual or expected return on plan assets.  As of August 25, 2012, our defined benefit obligation associated with our pension plans
is $305.2 million and our pension assets are valued at $181.4 million, resulting in a net pension obligation of $123.8 million. Amounts recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss are $154.7 million at August 25, 2012. The balance in
Accumulated other comprehensive loss will be amortized into pension expense in the future, unless the losses are recovered in future periods through actuarial gains.  Additionally, our tax liability for uncertain tax positions, including interest and penalties, was $31.8 million at August 25, 2012. Approximately $7.5 million is classified as current liabilities
and $24.3 million is classified as long-term liabilities. We did not reflect these obligations in the table above as we are unable to make an estimate of the timing of payments due to uncertainties in the timing of the settlement of these tax
positions.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  The following table reflects outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds as of August 25, 2012:   








 (in thousands)
  
TotalOtherCommitments
 

 Standby letters of credit
  
$
102,258
  

 Surety bonds
  
 
33,083
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
135,341
  


  
  
  
 
 A substantial portion of the outstanding standby letters of credit (which are primarily renewed on an annual basis) and
surety bonds are used to cover reimbursement obligations to our workers’ compensation carriers. There are no additional contingent liabilities associated with these instruments as the underlying liabilities are already reflected in our
consolidated balance sheet. The standby letters of credit and surety bonds arrangements expire within one year, but have automatic renewal clauses. 
  25 


Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
“Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” include
certain financial measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). These non-GAAP financial measures provide additional information for determining our optimum capital structure and are used to
assist management in evaluating performance and in making appropriate business decisions to maximize stockholders’ value.  Non-GAAP
financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP financial measures, or considered in isolation, for the purpose of analyzing our operating performance, financial position or cash flows. However, we have presented the non-GAAP
financial measures, as we believe they provide additional information that is useful to investors as it indicates more clearly our comparative year-to-year operating results. Furthermore, our management and Compensation Committee of the Board use
the above-mentioned non-GAAP financial measures to analyze and compare our underlying operating results and to determine payments of performance-based compensation. We have included a reconciliation of this information to the most comparable GAAP
measures in the following reconciliation tables.  Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Cash Flow Before Share Repurchases and
Changes in Debt  The following table reconciles net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents to cash flow before share repurchases
and changes in debt, which is presented in “Selected Financial Data”:   
























 
  
Fiscal Year Ended August
 

 (in thousands)
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
 
2008
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
$
5,487
  
  
$
(674
) 
 
$
5,574
  
  
$
(149,755
) 
 
$
155,807
  

 Less: Increase in debt
  
 
418,729
  
  
 
442,201
  
 
 
181,586
  
  
 
476,900
  
 
 
314,382
  

 Plus: Share repurchases
  
 
1,362,869
  
  
 
1,466,802
  
 
 
1,123,655
  
  
 
1,300,002
  
 
 
849,196
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flow before share repurchases and changes in debt
  
$
949,627
  
  
$
1,023,927
  
 
$
947,643
  
  
$
673,347
  
 
$
690,621
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  26 


Table of Contents
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: After-tax Return on Invested Capital 
The following table calculates the percentage of ROIC. ROIC is calculated as after-tax operating profit (excluding rent) divided by average invested
capital (which includes a factor to capitalize operating leases). The ROIC percentages are presented in “Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”:
  
























 
  
Fiscal Year Ended August
 

 (in thousands, except percentages)
  
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008 (1)
 

 Net income
  
$
930,373
  
 
$
848,974
  
 
$
738,311
  
 
$
657,049
  
 
$
641,606
  

 Adjustments:
  



 



 



 



 




 Interest expense
  
 
175,905
  
 
 
170,557
  
 
 
158,909
  
 
 
142,316
  
 
 
116,745
  

 Rent expense
  
 
229,417
  
 
 
213,846
  
 
 
195,632
  
 
 
181,308
  
 
 
165,121
  

 Tax effect (2)
  
 
(145,916
) 
 
 
(137,962
) 
 
 
(128,983
) 
 
 
(117,929
) 
 
 
(102,345
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 After-tax return
  
$
1,189,779
  
 
$
1,095,415
  
 
$
963,869
  
 
$
862,744
  
 
$
821,127
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Average debt (3)
  
$
3,508,970
  
 
$
3,121,880
  
 
$
2,769,617
  
 
$
2,468,351
  
 
$
2,074,738
  

 Average (deficit) equity (4)
  
 
(1,372,342
) 
 
 
(993,624
) 
 
 
(507,885
) 
 
 
(75,162
) 
 
 
308,401
  

 Rent x 6 (5)
  
 
1,376,502
  
 
 
1,283,076
  
 
 
1,173,792
  
 
 
1,087,848
  
 
 
990,726
  

 Average capital lease obligations (6)
  
 
96,027
  
 
 
84,966
  
 
 
62,220
  
 
 
58,901
  
 
 
60,763
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Pre-tax invested capital
  
$
3,609,157
  
 
$
3,496,298
  
 
$
3,497,744
  
 
$
3,539,938
  
 
$
3,434,628
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 ROIC
  
 
33.0
% 
 
 
31.3
% 
 
 
27.6
% 
 
 
24.4
% 
 
 
23.9
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1)
The fiscal year ended August 30, 2008 consisted of 53 weeks. 


(2)
The effective tax rate during fiscal 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 36.0%, 35.9%, 36.4%, 36.4% and 36.3%, respectively. 


(3)
Average debt is equal to the average of our debt measured as of the previous five quarters. 


(4)
Average equity is equal to the average of our stockholders’ (deficit) equity measured as of the previous five quarters. 


(5)
Rent is multiplied by a factor of six to capitalize operating leases in the determination of pre-tax invested capital. 


(6)
Average capital lease obligations is computed as the average of our capital lease obligations over the previous five quarters. 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure: Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR  The following table calculates the ratio of adjusted debt to EBITDAR. Adjusted debt to EBITDAR is calculated as the sum of total debt, capital lease obligations and annual rents times six; divided by net
income plus interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and share-based compensation expense. The adjusted debt to EBITDAR ratios are presented in “Selected Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations”:   
























 
  
Fiscal Year Ended August
 

 (in thousands, except ratios)
  
2012
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008 (1)
 

 Net income
  
$
930,373
  
  
$
848,974
  
  
$
738,311
  
  
$
657,049
  
  
$
641,606
  

 Add: Interest expense
  
 
175,905
  
  
 
170,557
  
  
 
158,909
  
  
 
142,316
  
  
 
116,745
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
522,613
  
  
 
475,272
  
  
 
422,194
  
  
 
376,697
  
  
 
365,783
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 EBIT
  
 
1,628,891
  
  
 
1,494,803
  
  
 
1,319,414
  
  
 
1,176,062
  
  
 
1,124,134
  

 Add: Depreciation expense
  
 
211,831
  
  
 
196,209
  
  
 
192,084
  
  
 
180,433
  
  
 
169,509
  

 Rent expense
  
 
229,417
  
  
 
213,846
  
  
 
195,632
  
  
 
181,308
  
  
 
165,121
  

 Share-based expense
  
 
33,363
  
  
 
26,625
  
  
 
19,120
  
  
 
19,135
  
  
 
18,388
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 EBITDAR
  
$
2,103,502
  
  
$
1,931,483
  
  
$
1,726,250
  
  
$
1,556,938
  
  
$
1,477,152
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Debt
  
$
3,768,183
  
  
$
3,351,682
  
  
$
2,908,486
  
  
$
2,726,900
  
  
$
2,250,000
  

 Capital lease obligations
  
 
102,256
  
  
 
86,656
  
  
 
88,280
  
  
 
54,764
  
  
 
64,061
  

 Rent x 6
  
 
1,376,502
  
  
 
1,283,076
  
  
 
1,173,792
  
  
 
1,087,848
  
  
 
990,726
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Adjusted debt
  
$
5,246,941
  
  
$
4,721,414
  
  
$
4,170,558
  
  
$
3,869,512
  
  
$
3,304,787
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Adjusted debt to EBITDAR
  
 
2.5
  
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
2.4
  
  
 
2.5
  
  
 
2.2
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
The fiscal year ended August 30, 2008 consisted of 53 weeks. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Recent Accounting Pronouncements  See Note A of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on recent accounting pronouncements.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  Preparation of our consolidated financial
statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and related disclosures
of contingent liabilities. In the notes to our consolidated financial statements, we describe our significant accounting policies used in preparing the consolidated financial statements. Our policies are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are drawn
from historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ under different assumptions or conditions. Our senior management has identified the critical accounting policies
for the areas that are materially impacted by estimates and assumptions and have discussed such policies with the Audit Committee of our Board. The following items in our consolidated financial statements represent our critical accounting policies
that require significant estimation or judgment by management:  Inventory Reserves and Cost of Sales 
LIFO  We state our inventories at the
lower of cost or market using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) method for domestic merchandise and the first-in, first out (“FIFO”) method for Mexico inventories. Due to price deflation on our merchandise purchases, our domestic
inventory balances are effectively maintained under the FIFO method. We do not write up inventory for favorable LIFO adjustments, and due to price deflation, LIFO costs of our domestic inventories exceed replacement costs by $270.4 million at
August 25, 2012, calculated using the dollar value method.  Inventory Obsolescence and Shrinkage 
Our inventory, primarily hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products, is used on vehicles that have rather long lives; and
therefore, the risk of obsolescence is minimal and the majority of excess inventory has historically been returned to our vendors for credit. In the isolated instances where less than full credit will be received for such returns and where we
anticipate that items will be sold at retail prices that are less than recorded costs, we record a charge (less than $20 million in each of the last three years) through cost of sales for the difference. These charges are based on management’s
judgment, including estimates and assumptions regarding marketability of products and the market value of inventory to be sold in future periods.  Historically, we have not encountered material exposure to inventory obsolescence or excess inventory, nor have we experienced material changes to our estimates. However, we may be exposed to material
losses should our vendors alter their policy with regard to accepting excess inventory returns.  Additionally, we reduce inventory for
projected losses related to shrinkage, which is estimated based on historical losses and current inventory loss trends resulting from previous physical inventories. Shrinkage may occur due to theft, loss or inaccurate records for the receipt of
goods, among other things. Throughout the year, we take physical inventory counts of our stores and distribution centers to verify these estimates. We make assumptions regarding upcoming physical inventory counts that may differ from actual results.
Over the last three years, there has been less than a 50 basis point fluctuation in our shrinkage rate.  Each quarter, we evaluate the accrued
shrinkage in light of the actual shrink results. To the extent our actual physical inventory count results differ from our estimates, we may experience material adjustments to our financial statements. Historically, we have not experienced material
adjustments to our shrinkage estimates and do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use.  A 10% difference in our inventory reserves as of August 25, 2012, would have affected net income by approximately $7 million in fiscal 2012. 
  28 


Table of Contents
Vendor Allowances  We receive various payments and allowances from our vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements, including allowances for warranties, advertising and general promotion of vendor products.
Vendor allowances are treated as a reduction of inventory, unless they are provided as a reimbursement of specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by the Company in selling the vendor’s products. Approximately 87% of the vendor funds
received are recorded as a reduction of the cost of inventories and recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as these inventories are sold. 
Based on our vendor agreements, a significant portion of vendor funding we receive is based on our inventory purchases. Therefore, we record receivables
for funding earned but not yet received as we purchase inventory. During the year, we regularly review the receivables from vendors to ensure vendors are able to meet their obligations. We generally have not recorded a reserve against these
receivables as we have legal right of offset with our vendors for payments owed them. Historically, we have had write-offs less than $500 thousand in each of the last three years.  Self-Insurance Reserves  We retain a significant portion of the risks associated with
workers’ compensation, employee health, general and products liability, property and vehicle liability; and we obtain third party insurance to limit the exposure related to certain of these risks. Our self-insurance reserve estimates totaled
$175.8 million at August 25, 2012, and $159.3 million at August 27, 2011. This change is primarily reflective of our growing operations, including inflation, increases in health care costs, the number of vehicles and the number of hours
worked, as well as our historical claims experience and changes in our discount rate.  The assumptions made by management in estimating our
self-insurance reserves include consideration of historical cost experience, judgments about the present and expected levels of cost per claim and retention levels. We utilize various methods, including analyses of historical trends and actuarial
methods, to estimate the cost to settle reported claims, and claims incurred but not yet reported. The actuarial methods develop estimates of the future ultimate claim costs based on the claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. When estimating
these liabilities, we consider factors, such as the severity, duration and frequency of claims, legal costs associated with claims, healthcare trends, and projected inflation of related factors. In recent history, our methods for determining our
exposure have remained consistent, and our historical trends have been appropriately factored into our reserve estimates. As we obtain additional information and refine our methods regarding the assumptions and estimates we use to recognize
liabilities incurred, we will adjust our reserves accordingly.  Management believes that the various assumptions developed and actuarial
methods used to determine our self- insurance reserves are reasonable and provide meaningful data and information that management uses to make its best estimate of our exposure to these risks. Arriving at these estimates, however, requires a
significant amount of subjective judgment by management, and as a result these estimates are uncertain and our actual exposure may be different from our estimates. For example, changes in our assumptions about health care costs, the severity of
accidents and the incidence of illness, the average size of claims and other factors could cause actual claim costs to vary materially from our assumptions and estimates, causing our reserves to be overstated or understated. For instance, a 10%
change in our self-insurance liability would have affected net income by approximately $11 million for fiscal 2012.  Our liabilities for
workers’ compensation, certain general and product liability, property and vehicle claims do not have scheduled maturities; however, the timing of future payments is predictable based on historical patterns and is relied upon in determining the
current portion of these liabilities. Accordingly, we reflect the net present value of the obligations we determine to be long-term using the risk-free interest rate as of the balance sheet date. If the discount rate used to calculate the present
value of these reserves changed by 50 basis points, net income would have been affected by approximately $2 million for fiscal 2012. Our liability for health benefits is classified as current, as the historical average duration of claims is
approximately six weeks.  Income Taxes  Our income tax returns are audited by state, federal and foreign tax authorities, and we are typically engaged in various tax examinations at any given time. Tax contingencies often arise due to
uncertainty or differing interpretations of the application of tax rules throughout the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The contingencies are influenced by items such as tax audits, changes in tax laws, litigation, appeals and prior
experience with similar tax positions. We regularly review our tax reserves for these items and assess the adequacy of the amount we have recorded. As of August 25, 2012, we had approximately $31.8 million reserved for uncertain tax positions.

  29 


Table of Contents
We evaluate potential exposures associated with our various tax filings by estimating a liability for
uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on
audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.
 We believe our estimates to be reasonable and have not experienced material adjustments to our reserves in the previous three years; however,
actual results could differ from our estimates and we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. Specifically, management has used judgment and made assumptions to estimate the likely outcome of uncertain tax positions. Additionally,
to the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or must pay in excess of recognized reserves, our effective tax rate in any particular period could be materially affected. 
Pension Obligation  Prior to
January 1, 2003, substantially all full-time employees were covered by a qualified defined benefit pension plan. The benefits under the plan were based on years of service and the employee’s highest consecutive five-year average
compensation. On January 1, 2003, the plan was frozen. Accordingly, pension plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan. On January 1, 2003, our supplemental,
unqualified defined benefit pension plan for certain highly compensated employees was also frozen. Accordingly, plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan. As the plan
benefits are frozen, the annual pension expense and recorded liabilities are not impacted by increases in future compensation levels, but are impacted by the use of two key assumptions in the calculation of these balances: 
Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets: For the fiscal year ended August 25, 2012, we have assumed a 7.5%
long-term rate of return on our plan assets. This estimate is a judgmental matter in which management considers the composition of our asset portfolio, our historical long-term investment performance and current market conditions. We review the
expected long-term rate of return on an annual basis, and revise it accordingly. Additionally, we monitor the mix of investments in our portfolio to ensure alignment with our long-term strategy to manage pension cost and reduce volatility in our
assets. At August 25, 2012, our plan assets totaled $181 million in our qualified plan. Our assets are generally valued using the net asset values, which are determined by valuing investments at the closing price or last trade reported on the
major market on which the individual securities are traded. We have no assets in our nonqualified plan. A 50 basis point change in our expected long term rate of return would impact annual pension expense by approximately $900 thousand for the
qualified plan.  Discount rate used to determine benefit obligations: This rate is highly sensitive and is adjusted
annually based on the interest rate for long-term, high-quality, corporate bonds as of the measurement date using yields for maturities that are in line with the duration of our pension liabilities. This same discount rate is also used to determine
pension expense for the following plan year. For fiscal 2012, we assumed a discount rate of 3.9%. A decrease in the discount rate increases our projected benefit obligation and pension expense. A 50 basis point change in the discount rate at
August 25, 2012 would impact annual pension expense/income by approximately $2 million for the qualified plan and $30 thousand for the nonqualified plan.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  We are exposed to market risk from, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, we use various derivative instruments to reduce interest rate
and fuel price risks. To date, based upon our current level of foreign operations, no derivative instruments have been utilized to reduce foreign exchange rate risk. All of our hedging activities are governed by guidelines that are authorized by the
Board. Further, we do not buy or sell derivative instruments for trading purposes. 
  30 


Table of Contents
Interest Rate Risk  Our financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times, we reduce our exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate hedge instruments such as
interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and forward-starting interest rate swaps.  We have historically utilized interest rate
swaps to convert variable rate debt to fixed rate debt and to lock in fixed rates on future debt issuances. We reflect the current fair value of all interest rate hedge instruments as a component of either other current assets or accrued expenses
and other. Our interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow hedges.  Unrealized gains and losses on interest rate hedges are
deferred in stockholders’ deficit as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss. These deferred gains and losses are recognized in income as a decrease or increase to interest expense in the period in which the related cash flows being
hedged are recognized in expense. However, to the extent that the change in value of an interest rate hedge instrument does not perfectly offset the change in the value of the cash flow being hedged, that ineffective portion is immediately
recognized in earnings.  During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company entered into two treasury rate locks. These agreements were
designated as cash flow hedges and were used to hedge the exposure to variability in future cash flows resulting from changes in variable interest rates related to the $500 million Senior Note debt issuance in April 2012. The treasury rate locks had
notional amounts of $300 million and $100 million with associated fixed rates of 2.09% and 2.07% respectively. The locks were benchmarked based on the 10-year U.S. treasury notes. These locks expired on April 20, 2012 and resulted in a loss of
$2.8 million, which has been deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be reclassified to Interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. The hedges remained highly effective until they expired, and no ineffectiveness was
recognized in earnings.  As of August 25, 2012, we held two treasury rate locks, each with a notional amount of $100 million. These
agreements, which are set to expire on November 1, 2012, are cash flow hedges used to hedge the exposure to variability in future cash flows resulting from changes in variable interest rates relating to an anticipated debt transaction. The
fixed rates of the hedges are 2.07% and 1.92% and are benchmarked based on the 10-year U.S. treasury notes. It is expected that upon settlement of these agreements, the realized gain or loss will be deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss
and reclassified to Interest expense over the life of the underlying debt.  The fair value of our debt was estimated at $4.055 billion as of
August 25, 2012, and $3.633 billion as of August 27, 2011, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt issues or on the current rates available to us for debt having the same remaining maturities. Such fair value is
greater than the carrying value of debt by $286.6 million and $281.0 million at August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, respectively. We had $518.2 million of variable rate debt outstanding at August 25, 2012, and $601.7 million of
variable rate debt outstanding at August 27, 2011. In fiscal 2012, at this borrowing level for variable rate debt, a one percentage point increase in interest rates would have had an unfavorable impact on our pre-tax earnings and cash flows of
approximately $5 million. The primary interest rate exposure on variable rate debt is based on LIBOR. We had outstanding fixed rate debt of $3.250 billion at August 25, 2012, and $2.750 billion at August 27, 2011. A one percentage
point increase in interest rates would reduce the fair value of our fixed rate debt by approximately $130 million at August 25, 2012. 
Fuel Price Risk  From time to time, we
utilize fuel swap contracts in order to lower fuel cost volatility in our operating results. Historically, the instruments were executed to economically hedge a portion of our diesel and unleaded fuel exposure. However, we have not designated the
fuel swap contracts as hedging instruments; and therefore, the contracts have not qualified for hedge accounting treatment. We did not enter into any fuel swap contracts during fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011 or fiscal 2010. 
  31 


Table of Contents
Foreign Currency Risk  Foreign currency exposures arising from transactions include firm commitments and anticipated transactions denominated in a currency other than our entities’ functional currencies. To minimize
our risk, we generally enter into transactions denominated in the respective functional currencies. Foreign currency exposures arising from transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are not material. We are
exposed to euros, Canadian dollars, and Brazilian reals, but our primary foreign currency exposure arises from Mexican peso-denominated revenues and profits and their translation into U.S. dollars.
We generally view our investments in the Mexican subsidiaries as long-term. As a result, we generally do not hedge these net investments. The
net asset exposure in the Mexican subsidiaries translated into U.S. dollars using the year-end exchange rates was $315.7 million at August 25, 2012 and $292.2 million at August 27, 2011. The potential loss in value of our net assets
in the Mexican subsidiaries resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates at August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, amounted to approximately $29 million and approximately $27 million,
respectively. Any changes in our net assets in the Mexican subsidiaries relating to foreign currency exchange rates would be reflected in the foreign currency translation component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss, unless the Mexican
subsidiaries are sold or otherwise disposed.  During fiscal 2012, exchange rates with respect to the Mexican peso decreased by approximately
6.2% with respect to the U.S. dollar. Exchange rates with respect to the Mexican peso increased by approximately 4.3% with respect to the U.S. dollar during fiscal 2011. 
  32 


Table of Contents
Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
Index   








 Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
  
 
34
  

 Certifications
  
 
34
  

 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
35
  

 Consolidated Statements of Income
  
 
37
  

 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
  
 
37
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
38
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
39
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit
  
 
40
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
41
  

  33 


Table of Contents
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
 Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our internal control over financial reporting includes, among other things, defined policies and procedures for conducting and governing our business, sophisticated
information systems for processing transactions and properly trained staff. Mechanisms are in place to monitor the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, including regular testing performed by the Company’s internal
audit team, which is comprised of both Company personnel and Deloitte & Touche LLP professionals. Actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified. Our procedures for financial reporting include the active involvement of
senior management, our Audit Committee and a staff of highly qualified financial and legal professionals.  Management, with the participation
of our principal executive and financial officers, assessed our internal control over financial reporting as of August 25, 2012, the end of our fiscal year. Management based its assessment on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment,
management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of August 25, 2012.  Our independent
registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young LLP, audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation report on the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting as of August 25, 2012 is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   




 /s/ WILLIAM C. RHODES, III

 William C. Rhodes, III

 Chairman, President and

 Chief Executive Officer

 (Principal Executive Officer)



 /s/ WILLIAM T. GILES

 William T. Giles

 Chief Financial Officer and Executive

 Vice President – Finance, Information

 Technology and ALLDATA

 (Principal Financial Officer)
 Certifications  Compliance with NYSE Corporate Governance Listing Standards  On January 5, 2012, the
Company submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the Annual CEO Certification required pursuant to Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.  Rule 13a-14(a) Certifications of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer 
The Company has filed, as exhibits to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25, 2012, the certifications of its Principal
Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer required pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 
  34 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AutoZone, Inc.  We have audited AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of August 25, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the “COSO criteria”). AutoZone, Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such
other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
In our opinion, AutoZone, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of August 25, 2012,
based on the COSO criteria.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States), the consolidated balance sheets of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders’ deficit, and cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended August 25, 2012 of AutoZone, Inc. and our report dated October 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 




/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 Memphis, Tennessee  October 22, 2012 
  35 


Table of Contents
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders of AutoZone, Inc.  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income,
stockholders’ deficit, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended August 25, 2012. These financial statements are the responsibility of AutoZone, Inc.’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of AutoZone, Inc. as of August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended August 25, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  We also have audited, in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), AutoZone, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of August 25, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal
Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated October 22, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
 




/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 Memphis, Tennessee  October 22, 2012 
  36 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands, except per share data)
  
August 25,2012(52
weeks)
 
  
August 27,2011(52
weeks)
 
  
August 28,2010(52
weeks)
 

 Net sales
  
$
8,603,863
  
  
$
8,072,973
  
  
$
7,362,618
  

 Cost of sales, including warehouse and delivery expenses
  
 
4,171,827
  
  
 
3,953,510
  
  
 
3,650,874
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
4,432,036
  
  
 
4,119,463
  
  
 
3,711,744
  

 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
2,803,145
  
  
 
2,624,660
  
  
 
2,392,330
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Operating profit
  
 
1,628,891
  
  
 
1,494,803
  
  
 
1,319,414
  

 Interest expense, net
  
 
175,905
  
  
 
170,557
  
  
 
158,909
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
 
1,452,986
  
  
 
1,324,246
  
  
 
1,160,505
  

 Income tax expense
  
 
522,613
  
  
 
475,272
  
  
 
422,194
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net income
  
$
930,373
  
  
$
848,974
  
  
$
738,311
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares for basic earnings per share
  
 
38,696
  
  
 
42,632
  
  
 
48,488
  

 Effect of dilutive stock equivalents
  
 
929
  
  
 
971
  
  
 
816
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Adjusted weighted average shares for diluted earnings per share
  
 
39,625
  
  
 
43,603
  
  
 
49,304
  






 Basic earnings per share
  
$
24.04
  
  
$
19.91
  
  
$
15.23
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Diluted earnings per share
  
$
23.48
  
  
$
19.47
  
  
$
14.97
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   
 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012(52
weeks)
 
 
August 27,2011(52
weeks)
 
 
August 28,2010(52
weeks)
 

 Net income
  
$
930,373
  
 
$
848,974
  
 
$
738,311
  






 Other comprehensive loss:
  



 



 





  



 



 




 Pension liability adjustments, net of taxes (1)
  
 
(17,262
) 
 
 
(17,346
) 
 
 
(8,133
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
(13,866
) 
 
 
8,347
  
 
 
705
  

 Unrealized loss on marketable securities, net of taxes (2)
  
 
(128
) 
 
 
(171
) 
 
 
(104
) 

 Net derivative activity, net of taxes (3)
  
 
(1,066
) 
 
 
(4,053
) 
 
 
(6,890
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive loss
  
 
(32,322
) 
 
 
(13,223
) 
 
 
(14,422
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income
  
$
898,051
  
 
$
835,751
  
 
$
723,889
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 


(1)
Pension liability adjustments are presented net of taxes of $29,744 in 2012, $3,998 in 2011, and $5,504 in 2010 


(2)
Unrealized losses on marketable securities are presented net of taxes of $69 in 2012, $91 in 2011 and $56 in 2010 


(3)
Net derivative activities are presented net of taxes of $4,800 in 2012, $0 in 2011, and $3,700 in 2010 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 












 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 

 Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
103,093
  
 
$
97,606
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
161,375
  
 
 
140,690
  

 Merchandise inventories
  
 
2,627,983
  
 
 
2,466,107
  

 Other current assets
  
 
85,649
  
 
 
88,022
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
846
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
2,978,946
  
 
 
2,792,425
  





 Property and equipment:
  



 




 Land
  
 
800,175
  
 
 
740,276
  

 Buildings and improvements
  
 
2,400,895
  
 
 
2,177,476
  

 Equipment
  
 
1,016,835
  
 
 
994,369
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
314,559
  
 
 
275,299
  

 Construction in progress
  
 
127,297
  
 
 
184,452
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
4,659,761
  
 
 
4,371,872
  

 Less: Accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
1,803,833
  
 
 
1,702,997
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
2,855,928
  
 
 
2,668,875
  





 Goodwill
  
 
302,645
  
 
 
302,645
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
33,796
  
 
 
10,661
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
94,324
  
 
 
94,996
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
430,765
  
 
 
408,302
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
6,265,639
  
 
$
5,869,602
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Deficit
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
2,926,740
  
 
$
2,755,853
  

 Accrued expenses and other
  
 
478,085
  
 
 
449,327
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
17,053
  
 
 
25,185
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
183,833
  
 
 
166,449
  

 Short-term borrowings
  
 
49,881
  
 
 
34,082
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
3,655,592
  
 
 
3,430,896
  





 Long-term debt
  
 
3,718,302
  
 
 
3,317,600
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
439,770
  
 
 
375,338
  





 Commitments and contingencies
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  





 Stockholders’ deficit:
  



 




 Preferred stock, authorized 1,000 shares; no shares issued
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Common stock, par value $.01 per share, authorized 200,000 shares; 39,869 shares issued and 37,028 shares outstanding in 2012 and
44,084 shares issued and 40,109 shares outstanding in 2011
  
 
399
  
 
 
441
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
689,890
  
 
 
591,384
  

 Retained deficit
  
 
(1,033,197
) 
 
 
(643,998
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
 
(152,013
) 
 
 
(119,691
) 

 Treasury stock, at cost
  
 
(1,053,104
) 
 
 
(1,082,368
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ deficit
  
 
(1,548,025
) 
 
 
(1,254,232
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
6,265,639
  
 
$
5,869,602
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  38 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012(52 weeks)
 
 
August 27,2011(52 weeks)
 
 
August 28,2010(52 weeks)
 

 Cash flows from operating activities:
  



 



 




 Net income
  
$
930,373
  
 
$
848,974
  
 
$
738,311
  

 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization of property and equipment
  
 
211,831
  
 
 
196,209
  
 
 
192,084
  

 Amortization of debt origination fees
  
 
8,066
  
 
 
8,962
  
 
 
6,495
  

 Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  
 
(63,041
) 
 
 
(34,945
) 
 
 
(22,251
) 

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
25,557
  
 
 
44,667
  
 
 
(9,023
) 

 Share-based compensation expense
  
 
33,363
  
 
 
26,625
  
 
 
19,120
  

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable
  
 
(21,276
) 
 
 
(14,605
) 
 
 
782
  

 Merchandise inventories
  
 
(167,914
) 
 
 
(155,421
) 
 
 
(96,077
) 

 Accounts payable and accrued expenses
  
 
197,406
  
 
 
342,826
  
 
 
349,122
  

 Income taxes payable
  
 
56,754
  
 
 
34,319
  
 
 
12,474
  

 Other, net
  
 
12,862
  
 
 
(6,073
) 
 
 
5,215
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by operating activities
  
 
1,223,981
  
 
 
1,291,538
  
 
 
1,196,252
  

 Cash flows from investing activities:
  



 



 




 Capital expenditures
  
 
(378,054
) 
 
 
(321,604
) 
 
 
(315,400
) 

 Purchase of marketable securities
  
 
(45,665
) 
 
 
(43,772
) 
 
 
(56,156
) 

 Proceeds from sale of marketable securities
  
 
42,385
  
 
 
43,081
  
 
 
52,620
  

 Disposal of capital assets
  
 
6,573
  
 
 
3,301
  
 
 
11,489
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(374,761
) 
 
 
(318,994
) 
 
 
(307,447
) 

 Cash flows from financing activities:
  



 



 




 Net (payments) proceeds from commercial paper
  
 
(54,200
) 
 
 
134,600
  
 
 
155,400
  

 Net (payments) proceeds from short-term borrowings
  
 
(27,071
) 
 
 
6,901
  
 
 
26,186
  

 Proceeds from issuance of debt
  
 
500,000
  
 
 
500,000
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repayment of debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(199,300
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Net proceeds from sale of common stock
  
 
75,343
  
 
 
55,846
  
 
 
52,922
  

 Purchase of treasury stock
  
 
(1,362,869
) 
 
 
(1,466,802
) 
 
 
(1,123,655
) 

 Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  
 
63,041
  
 
 
34,945
  
 
 
22,251
  

 Payments of capital lease obligations
  
 
(26,750
) 
 
 
(22,781
) 
 
 
(16,597
) 

 Other
  
 
(10,927
) 
 
 
(17,180
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
(843,433
) 
 
 
(973,771
) 
 
 
(883,493
) 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  
 
(300
) 
 
 
553
  
 
 
262
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
5,487
  
 
 
(674
) 
 
 
5,574
  

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
97,606
  
 
 
98,280
  
 
 
92,706
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
103,093
  
 
$
97,606
  
 
$
98,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental cash flow information:
  



 



 




 Interest paid, net of interest cost capitalized
  
$
161,797
  
 
$
155,531
  
 
$
150,745
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income taxes paid
  
$
443,666
  
 
$
405,654
  
 
$
420,575
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Assets acquired through capital lease
  
$
74,726
  
 
$
32,301
  
 
$
75,881
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  39 


Table of Contents
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit 
 
































 (in thousands)
  
CommonSharesIssued
 
 
CommonStock
 
 
AdditionalPaid-inCapital
 
 
Retained(Deficit)Earnings
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveLoss
 
 
TreasuryStock
 
 
Total
 

 Balance at August 29, 2009
  
 
57,881
  
 
$
579
  
 
$
549,326
  
 
$
136,935
  
 
$
(92,035
) 
 
$
(1,027,879
) 
 
$
(433,074
) 

 Net income
  



 



 



 
 
738,311
  
 



 



 
 
738,311
  

 Total other comprehensive loss
  



 



 



 



 
 
(14,422
) 
 



 
 
(14,422
) 

 Purchase of 6,376 shares of treasury stock
  



 



 



 



 



 
 
(1,123,655
) 
 
 
(1,123,655
) 

 Retirement of treasury shares
  
 
(8,504
) 
 
 
(85
) 
 
 
(85,657
) 
 
 
(1,120,289
) 
 



 
 
1,206,031
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sale of common stock under stock options and stock purchase plans
  
 
684
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
52,915
  
 



 



 



 
 
52,922
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  



 



 
 
19,120
  
 



 



 



 
 
19,120
  

 Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  



 



 
 
22,251
  
 



 



 



 
 
22,251
  

 Other
  



 



 



 
 
(301
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
94
  
 
 
(218
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at August 28, 2010
  
 
50,061
  
 
 
501
  
 
 
557,955
  
 
 
(245,344
) 
 
 
(106,468
) 
 
 
(945,409
) 
 
 
(738,765
) 

 Net income
  



 



 



 
 
848,974
  
 



 



 
 
848,974
  

 Total other comprehensive loss
  



 



 



 



 
 
(13,223
) 
 



 
 
(13,223
) 

 Purchase of 5,598 shares of treasury stock
  



 



 



 



 



 
 
(1,466,802
) 
 
 
(1,466,802
) 

 Retirement of treasury shares
  
 
(6,577
) 
 
 
(66
) 
 
 
(82,150
) 
 
 
(1,247,627
) 
 



 
 
1,329,843
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sale of common stock under stock options and stock purchase plans
  
 
600
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
55,840
  
 



 



 



 
 
55,846
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  



 



 
 
24,794
  
 



 



 



 
 
24,794
  

 Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  



 



 
 
34,945
  
 



 



 



 
 
34,945
  

 Other
  



 



 



 
 
(1
) 
 



 



 
 
(1
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at August 27, 2011
  
 
44,084
  
 
 
441
  
 
 
591,384
  
 
 
(643,998
) 
 
 
(119,691
) 
 
 
(1,082,368
) 
 
 
(1,254,232
) 

 Net income
  



 



 



 
 
930,373
  
 



 



 
 
930,373
  

 Total other comprehensive loss
  



 



 



 



 
 
(32,322
) 
 



 
 
(32,322
) 

 Purchase of 3,795 shares of treasury stock
  



 



 



 



 



 
 
(1,362,869
) 
 
 
(1,362,869
) 

 Retirement of treasury shares
  
 
(4,929
) 
 
 
(49
) 
 
 
(72,512
) 
 
 
(1,319,572
) 
 



 
 
1,392,133
  
 
 
—  
  

 Sale of common stock under stock options and stock purchase plans
  
 
714
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
75,336
  
 



 



 



 
 
75,343
  

 Share-based compensation expense
  



 



 
 
32,641
  
 



 



 



 
 
32,641
  

 Income tax benefit from exercise of stock options
  



 



 
 
63,041
  
 



 



 



 
 
63,041
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at August 25, 2012
  
 
39,869
  
 
$
399
  
 
$
689,890
  
 
$
(1,033,197
) 
 
$
(152,013
) 
 
$
(1,053,104
) 
 
$
(1,548,025
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  40 


Table of Contents
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
Note A – Significant Accounting Policies 
Business: AutoZone, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (“AutoZone” or the “Company”) are principally a
retailer and distributor of automotive parts and accessories. At the end of fiscal 2012, the Company operated 4,685 stores in the United States (“U.S.”), including Puerto Rico, and 321 stores in Mexico. Each store carries an extensive
product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. In 3,053 of the domestic stores, as well as select stores in
Mexico, at the end of fiscal 2012, the Company had a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers, service stations and public sector
accounts. The Company also sells the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, the Company sells automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive
products through www.autozone.com, and the Company’s commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. The Company does not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services. 
Fiscal Year: The Company’s fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in August. Each of fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010
represented 52 weeks.  Basis of Presentation: The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of AutoZone, Inc. and its
wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.  Use of Estimates:
Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities to prepare these financial statements. Actual results could differ from
those estimates.  Cash Equivalents: Cash equivalents consist of investments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the date of
purchase. Cash equivalents include proceeds due from credit and debit card transactions with settlement terms of less than 5 days. Credit and debit card receivables included within cash and cash equivalents were $34.0 million at August 25, 2012
and $32.5 million at August 27, 2011.  Accounts Receivable: Accounts receivable consists of receivables from commercial
customers and vendors, and are presented net of an allowance for uncollectible accounts. AutoZone routinely grants credit to certain of its commercial customers. The risk of credit loss in its trade receivables is substantially mitigated by the
Company’s credit evaluation process, short collection terms and sales to a large number of customers, as well as the low dollar value per transaction for most of its sales. Allowances for potential credit losses are determined based on
historical experience and current evaluation of the composition of accounts receivable. Historically, credit losses have been within management’s expectations and the allowances for uncollectible accounts were $2.4 million at August 25,
2012, and $2.1 million at August 27, 2011.  Merchandise Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using
the last-in, first-out method for domestic inventories and the first-in, first out (“FIFO”) method for Mexico inventories. Included in inventory are related purchasing, storage and handling costs. Due to price deflation on the
Company’s merchandise purchases, the Company’s domestic inventory balances are effectively maintained under the FIFO method. The Company’s policy is not to write up inventory in excess of replacement cost. The cumulative balance of
this unrecorded adjustment, which will be reduced upon experiencing price inflation on our merchandise purchases, was $270.4 million at August 25, 2012, and $253.3 million at August 27, 2011. 
Marketable Securities: The Company invests a portion of its assets held by the Company’s wholly owned insurance captive in marketable debt
securities and classifies them as available-for-sale. The Company includes these securities within the Other current assets and Other long-term assets captions in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets and records the amounts at fair market
value, which is determined using quoted market prices at the end of the reporting period. A discussion of marketable securities is included in “Note E – Fair Value Measurements” and “Note F – Marketable Securities”.

  41 


Table of Contents
Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation and amortization are
computed principally using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: buildings, 40 to 50 years; building improvements, 5 to 15 years; equipment, 3 to 10 years; and leasehold improvements, over the shorter of the
asset’s estimated useful life or the remaining lease term, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods. Depreciation and amortization include amortization of assets under capital lease. 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets: The Company evaluates the recoverability of its long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. When such an event occurs, the Company compares the sum of the undiscounted expected future cash flows of the asset (asset group) with the carrying amounts of the asset. If the
undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the assets, the Company measures the amount of impairment loss as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. There were no
material impairment losses recorded in the three years ended August 25, 2012.  Goodwill: The cost in excess of fair value of
identifiable net assets of businesses acquired is recorded as goodwill. Goodwill has not been amortized since fiscal 2001, but an analysis is performed at least annually to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying amount to
determine if any impairment exists. The Company performs its annual impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, unless circumstances dictate more frequent assessments. No impairment losses were recorded in the three years ended
August 25, 2012. Goodwill was $302.6 million as of August 25, 2012, and August 27, 2011.  Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities: AutoZone is exposed to market risk from, among other things, changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and fuel prices. From time to time, the Company uses various derivative instruments to reduce such risks. To date, based
upon the Company’s current level of foreign operations, no derivative instruments have been utilized to reduce foreign exchange rate risk. All of the Company’s hedging activities are governed by guidelines that are authorized by
AutoZone’s Board of Directors (the “Board”). Further, the Company does not buy or sell derivative instruments for trading purposes.  AutoZone’s financial market risk results primarily from changes in interest rates. At times, AutoZone reduces its exposure to changes in interest rates by entering into various interest rate hedge
instruments such as interest rate swap contracts, treasury lock agreements and forward-starting interest rate swaps. All of the Company’s interest rate hedge instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. Refer to “Note H –
Derivative Financial Instruments” for additional disclosures regarding the Company’s derivative instruments and hedging activities. Cash flows related to these instruments designated as qualifying hedges are reflected in the accompanying
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the same categories as the cash flows from the items being hedged. Accordingly, cash flows relating to the settlement of interest rate derivatives hedging the forecasted issuance of debt have been reflected
upon settlement as a component of financing cash flows. The resulting gain or loss from such settlement is deferred to Accumulated other comprehensive loss and reclassified to interest expense over the term of the underlying debt. This
reclassification of the deferred gains and losses impacts the interest expense recognized on the underlying debt that was hedged and is therefore reflected as a component of operating cash flows in periods subsequent to settlement. 
Foreign Currency: The Company accounts for its Mexican operations using the Mexican peso as the functional currency and converts its financial
statements from Mexican pesos to U.S. dollars. The cumulative loss on currency translation is recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss and approximated $50.3 million at August 25, 2012 and $36.4 million at August 27,
2011.  Self-Insurance Reserves: The Company retains a significant portion of the risks associated with workers’ compensation,
employee health, general, products liability, property and vehicle insurance. Through various methods, which include analyses of historical trends and utilization of actuaries, the Company estimates the costs of these risks. The costs are accrued
based upon the aggregate of the liability for reported claims and an estimated liability for claims incurred but not reported. Estimates are based on calculations that consider historical lag and claim development factors. The long-term portions of
these liabilities are recorded at the Company’s estimate of their net present value. 
  42 


Table of Contents
Deferred Rent: The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the course of the
lease term, which includes any reasonably assured renewal periods, beginning on the date the Company takes physical possession of the property (see “Note M – Leases”). Differences between this calculated expense and cash payments are
recorded as a liability within the Accrued expenses and other and Other long-term liabilities captions in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on the terms of the lease. Deferred rent approximated $86.9 million as of August 25,
2012, and $77.6 million as of August 27, 2011.  Financial Instruments: The Company has financial instruments, including cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets and accounts payable. The carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate fair value because of their short maturities. A discussion of the carrying values and fair values of
the Company’s debt is included in “Note I – Financing,” marketable securities is included in “Note F – Marketable Securities,” and derivatives is included in “Note H – Derivative Financial
Instruments.”  Income Taxes: The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
are determined based on differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. Our effective tax rate
is based on income by tax jurisdiction, statutory rates, and tax saving initiatives available to the Company in the various jurisdictions in which we operate.  The Company recognizes liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on a two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available
evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step requires the Company to estimate and measure the tax benefit as
the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as the Company must determine the probability of various possible outcomes. The Company
reevaluates these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis or when new information becomes available to management. These reevaluations are based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law,
successfully settled issues under audit, expirations due to statutes, and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an increase to the tax accrual. 
The Company classifies interest related to income tax liabilities, and if applicable, penalties, as a component of Income tax expense. The income tax
liabilities and accrued interest and penalties that are expected to be payable within one year of the balance sheet date are presented within the Accrued expenses and other caption in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The remaining
portion of the income tax liabilities and accrued interest and penalties are presented within the Other long-term liabilities caption in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets because payment of cash is not anticipated within one year of the
balance sheet date.  Sales and Use Taxes: Governmental authorities assess sales and use taxes on the sale of goods and services. The
Company excludes taxes collected from customers in its reported sales results; such amounts are included within the Accrued expenses and other caption until remitted to the taxing authorities. 
Dividends: The Company currently does not pay a dividend on its common stock. The ability to pay dividends is subject to limitations imposed by
Nevada law. Under Nevada law, any future payment of dividends would be dependent upon the Company’s financial condition, capital requirements, earnings and cash flow.  Revenue Recognition: The Company recognizes sales at the time the sale is made and the product is delivered to the customer. Revenue from sales are presented net of allowances for estimated sales
returns, which are based on historical return rates.  A portion of the Company's transactions include the sale of auto parts that contain a
core component. The core component represents the recyclable portion of the auto part. Customers are not charged for the core component of the new part if a used core is returned at the point of sale of the new part; otherwise the Company charges
customers a specified amount for the core component. The Company refunds that same amount upon the customer returning a used core to the store at a later date. The Company does not recognize sales or cost of sales for the core component of these
transactions when a used part is returned or expected to be returned from the customer. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Vendor Allowances and Advertising Costs: The Company receives various payments and allowances from
its vendors through a variety of programs and arrangements. Monies received from vendors include rebates, allowances and promotional funds. The amounts to be received are subject to the terms of the vendor agreements, which generally do not state an
expiration date, but are subject to ongoing negotiations that may be impacted in the future based on changes in market conditions, vendor marketing strategies and changes in the profitability or sell-through of the related merchandise. 
Rebates and other miscellaneous incentives are earned based on purchases or product sales and are accrued ratably over the purchase or sale of the
related product. These monies are generally recorded as a reduction of merchandise inventories and are recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the related inventories are sold.  For arrangements that provide for reimbursement of specific, incremental, identifiable costs incurred by the Company in selling the vendors’ products, the vendor funds are recorded as a reduction to
Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses in the period in which the specific costs were incurred.  The Company expenses
advertising costs as incurred. Advertising expense, net of vendor promotional funds, was $74.7 million in fiscal 2012, $71.5 million in fiscal 2011, and $65.5 million in fiscal 2010. Vendor promotional funds, which reduced advertising expense,
amounted to $19.7 million in fiscal 2012, $23.2 million in fiscal 2011, and $19.6 million in fiscal 2010.  Cost of Sales and Operating,
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses: The following illustrates the primary costs classified in each major expense category: 
Cost of Sales   


 
•
 
 Total cost of merchandise sold, including:   


 
•
 
 Freight expenses associated with moving merchandise inventories from the Company’s vendors to the distribution centers and to the retail stores;
  


 
•
 
 Vendor allowances that are not reimbursements for specific, incremental and identifiable costs; 
 


 
•
 
 Costs associated with operating the Company’s supply chain, including payroll and benefit costs, warehouse occupancy costs, transportation costs
and depreciation; and   


 
•
 
 Inventory shrinkage 
Operating, Selling, General and Administrative Expenses   


 
•
 
 Payroll and benefit costs for store and store support employees; 
 


 
•
 
 Occupancy costs of store and store support facilities; 
 


 
•
 
 Depreciation and amortization related to retail and store support assets; 
 


 
•
 
 Transportation costs associated with commercial and hub deliveries; 
 


 
•
 
 Advertising;   


 
•
 
 Self insurance costs; and   


 
•
 
 Other administrative costs, such as credit card transaction fees, supplies, and travel and lodging 
Warranty Costs: The Company or the vendors supplying its products provides the Company’s customers limited warranties on certain products
that range from 30 days to lifetime. In most cases, the Company’s vendors are primarily responsible for warranty claims. Warranty costs relating to merchandise sold under warranty not covered by vendors are estimated and recorded as warranty
obligations at the time of sale based on each product’s historical return rate. These obligations, which are often funded by vendor allowances, are recorded within the Accrued expenses and other caption in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For
vendor allowances that are in excess of the related estimated warranty expense for the vendor’s products, the excess is recorded in inventory and recognized as a reduction to cost of sales as the related inventory is sold. 
Shipping and Handling Costs: The Company does not generally charge customers separately for shipping and handling. Substantially all the costs the
Company incurs to ship products to our stores are included in cost of sales.  Pre-opening Expenses: Pre-opening expenses, which consist
primarily of payroll and occupancy costs, are expensed as incurred. 
  44 


Table of Contents
Earnings per Share: Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average outstanding common
shares. Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average outstanding common shares adjusted for the effect of common stock equivalents, which are primarily stock options. There were 30,000 stock options excluded from the diluted earnings
per share computation that would have been anti-dilutive as of August 25, 2012. There were no options excluded for the years ended August 27, 2011 and August 28, 2010.  Share-Based Payments: Share-based payments include stock option grants and certain other transactions under the Company’s stock plans. The Company recognizes compensation expense for its
share-based payments based on the fair value of the awards. See “Note B – Share-Based Payments” for further discussion. 
Risk and Uncertainties: In fiscal 2012, one class of similar products accounted for 10 percent of the Company’s total revenues, and one
vendor supplied more than 10 percent of the Company’s total purchases. No other class of similar products accounted for 10 percent or more of total revenues, and no other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of total purchases.
 Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements: In December 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2010-28, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, which amends Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other. ASU 2010-28 modifies Step
1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment analysis if it is more likely than not that a goodwill
impairment exists based on a qualitative assessment of adverse factors. The Company adopted this standard in fiscal 2012, and it did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs,
which amends ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement. The purpose of ASU 2011-04 is to clarify the intent about the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and to change a particular principle or requirement
for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The Company adopted this standard in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, and it had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income, which amends ASC Topic 220, Comprehensive Income. The
objective of ASU 2011-05 is to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. The update requires entities to present items of net
income, items of other comprehensive income and total comprehensive income in one continuous statement or two separate consecutive statements, and entities are no longer allowed to present items of other comprehensive income in the statement of
stockholders’ equity. ASU 2011-05 also states that reclassification adjustments between other comprehensive income and net income are presented separately on the face of the financial statements. However, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12 in December
2011, which deferred the effective date pertaining to these reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income until the FASB was able to reconsider operational concerns. All other requirements in ASU 2011-05 are not affected
by ASU 2011-12. The Company has early adopted ASU 2011-05 effective August 25, 2012, and it had no impact on the consolidated financial statements.  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements: In August 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, which amends ASC Topic 350,
Intangibles – Goodwill and Other. The purpose of ASU 2011-08 is to simplify how an entity tests goodwill for impairment. Entities will assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that a
reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value. In instances where the fair value is determined to be less than the carrying value, entities will perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test. The Company does not
expect the provisions of ASU 2011-08 to have a material impact to its consolidated financial statements. This update will be effective for the Company’s fiscal year ending August 31, 2013. 
  45 


Table of Contents
Note B – Share-Based Payments 
Total share-based compensation expense (a component of Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses) was $33.4 million for
fiscal 2012, $26.6 million for fiscal 2011, and $19.1 million for fiscal 2010. As of August 25, 2012, share-based compensation expense for unvested awards not yet recognized in earnings is $25.6 million and will be recognized over a weighted
average period of 2.5 years. Tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost are classified as a financing cash inflow.  On
December 15, 2010, the Company’s stockholders approved the 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan (the “2011 Plan”), allowing the Company to provide equity-based compensation to non-employee directors and employees for their service to
AutoZone or its subsidiaries or affiliates. Under the 2011 Plan, participants may receive equity-based compensation in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, dividend equivalents, deferred
stock, stock payments, performance share awards and other incentive awards structured by the Board and the Compensation Committee of the Board. Prior to the Company’s adoption of the 2011 Plan, equity-based compensation was provided to
employees under the 2006 Stock Option Plan and to non-employee directors under the 2003 Director Compensation Plan (the “2003 Comp Plan”) and the 2003 Director Stock Option Plan (the “2003 Option Plan”). 
The Company grants options to purchase common stock to certain of its employees under its plan at prices equal to the market value of the stock on the
date of grant. Options have a term of 10 years or 10 years and one day from grant date. Employee options generally vest in equal annual installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date and generally have 30 or 90
days after the service relationship ends, or one year after death, to exercise all vested options. The fair value of each option grant is separately estimated for each vesting date. The fair value of each option is amortized into compensation
expense on a straight-line basis between the grant date for the award and each vesting date.  In addition to the 2011 Plan, on
December 15, 2010, the Company adopted the 2011 Director Compensation Program (the “2011 Program”), which states that non-employee directors will receive their compensation in awards of restricted stock units under the 2011 Plan.
Under the 2011 Program, restricted stock units are granted the first day of each calendar quarter. The number of restricted stock units granted each quarter is determined by dividing one-fourth of the amount of the annual retainer by the fair market
value of the shares of common stock as of the grant date. The restricted stock units are fully vested on the date they are issued and are paid in shares of the Company’s common stock subsequent to the non-employee director ceasing to be a
member of the Board.  The 2011 Program replaced the 2003 Comp Plan and the 2003 Option Plan. Under the 2003 Comp Plan, non-employee directors
could receive no more than one-half of their director fees immediately in cash, and the remainder of the fees was required to be taken in common stock or stock appreciation rights. The director had the option to elect to receive up to 100% of the
fees in stock or defer all or part of the fees in units with value equivalent to the value of shares of common stock as of the grant date. At August 25, 2012, the Company has $6.7 million accrued related to 18,241 outstanding units issued under
the 2003 Comp Plan and prior plans, and there was $5.9 million accrued related to 19,709 outstanding units issued as of August 27, 2011. No additional shares of stock or units will be issued in future years under the 2003 Comp Plan. 
Under the 2003 Option Plan, each non-employee director received an option grant on January 1 of each year, and each new non-employee director
received an option to purchase 3,000 shares upon election to the Board, plus a portion of the annual directors’ option grant prorated for the portion of the year actually served. These stock option grants were made at the fair market value as
of the grant date and generally vested three years from the grant date. There were 104,679 and 125,614 outstanding options under the 2003 Option Plan as of August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, respectively. No additional shares of stock or
units will be issued in future years under the 2003 Option Plan. 
  46 


Table of Contents
The Company has estimated the fair value of all stock option awards as of the date of the grant by applying
the Black-Scholes-Merton multiple-option pricing valuation model. The application of this valuation model involves assumptions that are judgmental and highly sensitive in the determination of compensation expense. The following table presents the
weighted average for key assumptions used in determining the fair value of options granted and the related share-based compensation expense:   
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Expected price volatility
  
 
28
% 
 
 
31
% 
 
 
31
% 

 Risk-free interest rates
  
 
0.7
% 
 
 
1.0
% 
 
 
1.8
% 

 Weighted average expected lives (in years)
  
 
5.4
  
 
 
4.3
  
 
 
4.3
  

 Forfeiture rate
  
 
10
% 
 
 
10
% 
 
 
10
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
0
% 
 
 
0
% 
 
 
0
% 
 The following methodologies were applied in developing the assumptions used in determining the fair value of options
granted:  Expected price volatility – This is a measure of the amount by which a price has fluctuated or is
expected to fluctuate. The Company uses actual historical changes in the market value of its stock to calculate the volatility assumption as it is management’s belief that this is the best indicator of future volatility. The Company calculates
daily market value changes from the date of grant over a past period representative of the expected life of the options to determine volatility. An increase in the expected volatility will increase compensation expense. 
Risk-free interest rate – This is the U.S. Treasury rate for the week of the grant having a term equal to the expected life of
the option. An increase in the risk-free interest rate will increase compensation expense.  Expected lives – This
is the period of time over which the options granted are expected to remain outstanding and is based on historical experience. Separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation
purposes. Options granted have a maximum term of ten years or ten years and one day. An increase in the expected life will increase compensation expense.  Forfeiture rate – This is the estimated percentage of options granted that are expected to be forfeited or canceled before becoming fully vested. This estimate is based on historical
experience at the time of valuation and reduces expense ratably over the vesting period. An increase in the forfeiture rate will decrease compensation expense. This estimate is evaluated periodically based on the extent to which actual forfeitures
differ, or are expected to differ, from the previous estimate.  Dividend yield – The Company has not made any
dividend payments nor does it have plans to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. An increase in the dividend yield will decrease compensation expense.  The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted was $94.71 during fiscal 2012, $58.57 during fiscal 2011, and $40.75 during fiscal 2010. The intrinsic value of options exercised was $176.5
million in fiscal 2012, $100.0 million in fiscal 2011, and $64.8 million in fiscal 2010. The total fair value of options vested was $32.6 million in fiscal 2012, $20.7 million in fiscal 2011 and $20.7 million in fiscal 2010. 
  47 


Table of Contents
The Company generally issues new shares when options are exercised. The following table summarizes
information about stock option activity for the year ended August 25, 2012:   




















 
  
Numberof Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractualTerm(in years)
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue
(inthousands)
 

 Outstanding – August 27, 2011
  
 
2,630,194
  
 
$
132.32
  
  



  




 Granted
  
 
407,130
  
 
 
330.12
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(712,524
) 
 
 
107.84
  
  



  




 Canceled
  
 
(62,121
) 
 
 
227.53
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Outstanding – August 25, 2012
  
 
2,262,679
  
 
 
173.01
  
  
 
6.40
  
  
$
435,062
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Exercisable
  
 
1,236,652
  
 
 
120.55
  
  
 
5.03
  
  
 
302,402
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Expected to vest
  
 
1,026,027
  
 
 
236.25
  
  
 
8.05
  
  
 
118,969
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Available for future grants
  
 
2,420,546
  
 



  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  



 The Company recognized $1.5 million in expense related to the discount on the selling of shares to employees and
executives under various share purchase plans in fiscal 2012, $1.4 million in fiscal 2011 and $1.0 million in fiscal 2010. The Sixth Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the “Employee Plan”), which is qualified
under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code, permits all eligible employees to purchase AutoZone’s common stock at 85% of the lower of the market price of the common stock on the first day or last day of each calendar quarter through
payroll deductions. Maximum permitted annual purchases are $15,000 per employee or 10 percent of compensation, whichever is less. Under the Employee Plan, 19,403 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2012, 21,608 shares were sold to employees in
fiscal 2011, and 26,620 shares were sold to employees in fiscal 2010. The Company repurchased 24,113 shares at fair value in fiscal 2012, 30,864 shares at fair value in fiscal 2011, and 30,617 shares at fair value in fiscal 2010 from employees
electing to sell their stock. Issuances of shares under the Employee Plan are netted against repurchases and such repurchases are not included in share repurchases disclosed in “Note K – Stock Repurchase Program.” At August 25,
2012, 252,972 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under the Employee Plan.  Once executives have reached the maximum
purchases under the Employee Plan, the Fifth Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan (the “Executive Plan”) permits all eligible executives to purchase AutoZone’s common stock up to 25 percent of his or her annual salary
and bonus. Purchases under the Executive Plan were 3,937 shares in fiscal 2012, 1,719 shares in fiscal 2011, and 1,483 shares in fiscal 2010. At August 25, 2012, 252,400 shares of common stock were reserved for future issuance under the
Executive Plan. 
Note C – Accrued Expenses and Other 
Accrued expenses and other consisted of the following: 
 












 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
  
August 27,2011
 

 Medical and casualty insurance claims (current portion)
  
$
63,484
  
  
$
55,896
  

 Accrued compensation, related payroll taxes and benefits
  
 
151,669
  
  
 
151,419
  

 Property, sales, and other taxes
  
 
97,542
  
  
 
89,675
  

 Accrued interest
  
 
39,220
  
  
 
33,811
  

 Accrued gift cards
  
 
29,060
  
  
 
27,406
  

 Accrued sales and warranty returns
  
 
17,276
  
  
 
16,269
  

 Capital lease obligations
  
 
29,842
  
  
 
25,296
  

 Other
  
 
49,992
  
  
 
49,555
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
478,085
  
  
$
449,327
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  48 


Table of Contents
The Company retains a significant portion of the insurance risks associated with workers’ compensation,
employee health, general, products liability, property and vehicle insurance. A portion of these self-insured losses is managed through a wholly owned insurance captive. The Company maintains certain levels for stop-loss coverage for each
self-insured plan in order to limit its liability for large claims. The limits are per claim and are $1.5 million for workers’ compensation and property, $0.5 million for employee health, and $1.0 million for general, products liability, and
vehicle. 
Note D – Income Taxes 
The provision for income tax expense consisted of the following: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
449,670
  
 
$
391,132
  
 
$
397,062
  

 State
  
 
47,386
  
 
 
39,473
  
 
 
34,155
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
497,056
  
 
 
430,605
  
 
 
431,217
  

 Deferred:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
28,379
  
 
 
49,698
  
 
 
(3,831
) 

 State
  
 
(2,822
) 
 
 
(5,031
) 
 
 
(5,192
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
25,557
  
 
 
44,667
  
 
 
(9,023
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax expense
  
$
522,613
  
 
$
475,272
  
 
$
422,194
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed by applying the federal statutory tax rate of
35% to income before income taxes is as follows:   
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Federal tax at statutory U.S. income tax rate
  
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State income taxes, net
  
 
2.0
% 
 
 
1.7
% 
 
 
1.6
% 

 Other
  
 
(1.0
%) 
 
 
(0.8
%) 
 
 
(0.2
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effective tax rate
  
 
36.0
% 
 
 
35.9
% 
 
 
36.4
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows: 
 












 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss and credit carryforwards
  
$
36,605
  
 
$
31,772
  

 Insurance reserves
  
 
18,185
  
 
 
17,542
  

 Accrued benefits
  
 
63,320
  
 
 
61,436
  

 Pension
  
 
43,904
  
 
 
30,967
  

 Other
  
 
41,658
  
 
 
39,878
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
203,672
  
 
 
181,595
  

 Less: Valuation allowances
  
 
(9,532
) 
 
 
(7,973
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
 
194,140
  
 
 
173,622
  

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
(67,480
) 
 
 
(64,873
) 

 Inventory
  
 
(244,414
) 
 
 
(220,234
) 

 Other
  
 
(31,437
) 
 
 
(44,303
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(343,331
) 
 
 
(329,410
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax liability
  
$
(149,191
) 
 
$
(155,788
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  49 


Table of Contents
Deferred taxes are not provided for temporary differences of approximately $195.8 million at August 25,
2012, and $140.2 million at August 27, 2011, representing earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that are intended to be permanently reinvested. Computation of the potential deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings and
other basis differences is not practicable.  At August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, the Company had deferred tax assets of $7.8
million and $8.0 million from federal tax operating losses (“NOLs”) of $22.2 million and $22.8 million, and deferred tax assets of $2.1 million and $1.1 million from state tax NOLs of $46.6 million and $22.5 million, respectively. At
August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, the Company had deferred tax assets of $2.4 million and $1.5 million from Non-U.S. NOLs of $7.7 million and $5.1 million, respectively. The federal and state NOLs expire between fiscal 2013 and fiscal
2031. At August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, the Company had a valuation allowance of $9.1 million and $8.0 million, respectively, for certain federal, state, and Non-U.S. NOLs resulting primarily from annual statutory usage limitations.
At August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, the Company had deferred tax assets of $24.3 million and $21.2 million, respectively, for federal, state, and Non-U.S. income tax credit carryforwards. Certain tax credit carryforwards have no
expiration date and others will expire in fiscal 2013 through fiscal 2026. At August 25, 2012, the Company had a valuation allowance of $0.4 million for Non-U.S. tax credits.  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:   












 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 

 Beginning balance
  
$
29,906
  
 
$
38,554
  

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
6,869
  
 
 
6,205
  

 Additions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
44
  
 
 
11,787
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(1,687
) 
 
 
(20,998
) 

 Reductions due to settlements
  
 
(4,586
) 
 
 
(3,829
) 

 Reductions due to statute of limitations
  
 
(2,831
) 
 
 
(1,813
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Ending balance
  
$
27,715
  
 
$
29,906
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Included in the August 25, 2012, balance is $18.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would
reduce the Company’s effective tax rate.  The Company accrues interest on unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense.
Penalties, if incurred, would be recognized as a component of income tax expense. The Company had $4.1 million and $5.2 million accrued for the payment of interest and penalties associated with unrecognized tax benefits at August 25, 2012 and
August 27, 2011, respectively.  The major jurisdictions where the Company files income tax returns are the United States and Mexico. With
few exceptions, tax returns filed for tax years 2008 through 2011 remain open and subject to examination by the relevant tax authorities. The Company is typically engaged in various tax examinations at any given time, both by U. S. federal and state
taxing jurisdictions. As of August 25, 2012, the Company estimates that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by approximately $6.0 million over the next twelve months as a result of tax audit closings, settlements, and the
expiration of statutes to examine such returns in various jurisdictions. While the Company believes that it is adequately accrued for possible audit adjustments, the final resolution of these examinations cannot be determined at this time and could
result in final settlements that differ from current estimates. 
Note E – Fair Value Measurements 
The Company has adopted ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring
fair value in generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. This standard defines fair value as the price received to transfer an asset or paid to transfer a liability
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. ASC Topic 820 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by creating a hierarchy of valuation inputs used to measure fair value, and although it does not require
additional fair value measurements, it applies to other accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements. 
  50 


Table of Contents
The hierarchy prioritizes the inputs into three broad levels: 
Level 1 inputs — unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the
ability to access. An active market for the asset or liability is one in which transactions for the asset or liability occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide ongoing pricing information. 
Level 2 inputs — inputs other than quoted market prices included in Level 1 that are observable, either directly or
indirectly, for the asset or liability. Level 2 inputs include, but are not limited to, quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in an active market, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active
and inputs other than quoted market prices that are observable for the asset or liability, such as interest rate curves and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities, credit risk and default rates. 
Level 3 inputs — unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.  Financial Assets & Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis  The
Company’s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis were as follows:   




















 
  
August 25, 2012
 

 (in thousands)
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
 
Level 3
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Other current assets
  
$
22,515
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
22,515
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
40,424
  
  
 
13,275
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
53,699
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
62,939
  
  
$
13,275
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
76,214
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Accrued expenses and other
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(4,915
) 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
(4,915
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
August 27, 2011
 

 (in thousands)
  
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 
  
Fair Value
 

 Other current assets
  
$
11,872
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
11,872
  

 Other long-term assets
  
 
55,390
  
  
 
5,869
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
61,259
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
67,262
  
  
$
5,869
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
73,131
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 At August 25, 2012, the fair value measurement amounts for assets and liabilities recorded in the accompanying
Consolidated Balance Sheet consisted of short-term marketable securities of $22.5 million, which are included within Other current assets; long-term marketable securities of $53.7 million, which are included in Other long-term assets; and cash flow
hedging instruments of $4.9 million, which are included within Accrued expenses and other. The Company’s marketable securities are typically valued at the closing price in the principal active market as of the last business day of the quarter
or through the use of other market inputs relating to the securities, including benchmark yields and reported trades. A discussion on how the Company’s cash flow hedges are valued is included in “Note H – Derivative Financial
Instruments”, while the fair value of the Company’s pension plan assets are disclosed in “Note L – Pension and Savings Plans”.  Non-Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis  Non-financial assets
could be required to be measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in certain circumstances, including the event of impairment. The assets could include assets acquired in an acquisition as well as property, plant and equipment that are
determined to be impaired. During fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, the Company did not have any significant non-financial assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in periods subsequent to initial recognition. 
Financial Instruments not Recognized at Fair Value  The Company has financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, other current assets and accounts payable. The carrying amounts of these financial instruments approximate
fair value because of their short maturities. The fair value of the Company’s debt is disclosed in “Note I – Financing”. 
  51 


Table of Contents
Note F – Marketable Securities 
The Company’s basis for determining the cost of a security sold is the “Specific Identification Model”. Unrealized gains
(losses) on marketable securities are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. The Company’s available-for-sale marketable securities consisted of the following: 
 




















 
  
August 25, 2012
 

 (in thousands)
  
AmortizedCostBasis
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 

 Corporate securities
  
$
26,215
  
  
$
307
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
26,522
  

 Government bonds
  
 
20,790
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
(1
) 
 
 
20,906
  

 Mortgage-backed securities
  
 
4,369
  
  
 
17
  
  
 
(19
) 
 
 
4,367
  

 Asset-backed securities and other
  
 
24,299
  
  
 
120
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
24,419
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
75,673
  
  
$
561
  
  
$
(20
) 
 
$
76,214
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  




















 
  
August 27, 2011
 

 (in thousands)
  
AmortizedCostBasis
 
  
GrossUnrealizedGains
 
  
GrossUnrealizedLosses
 
 
Fair Value
 

 Corporate securities
  
$
26,261
  
  
$
229
  
  
$
(45
) 
 
$
26,445
  

 Government bonds
  
 
29,464
  
  
 
343
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
29,807
  

 Mortgage-backed securities
  
 
4,291
  
  
 
55
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,346
  

 Asset-backed securities and other
  
 
12,377
  
  
 
156
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
12,533
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
72,393
  
  
$
783
  
  
$
(45
) 
 
$
73,131
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The debt securities held at August 25, 2012, had effective maturities ranging from less than one year to
approximately 3 years. The Company did not realize any material gains or losses on its sale of marketable securities during fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011, or fiscal 2010.  The Company holds six securities that are in an unrealized loss position of approximately $20 thousand at August 25, 2012. The Company has the intent and ability to hold these investments until
recovery of fair value or maturity, and does not deem the investments to be impaired on an other than temporary basis. In evaluating whether the securities are deemed to be impaired on an other than temporary basis, the Company considers factors
such as the duration and severity of the loss position, the credit worthiness of the investee, the term to maturity and our intent and ability to hold the investments until maturity or until recovery of fair value. 
  52 


Table of Contents
Note G – Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss includes certain adjustments to pension liabilities, foreign currency translation adjustments, certain activity for
interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks that qualify as cash flow hedges and unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities. Changes in Accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of the following: 
 
























 (in thousands)
  
PensionLiability
 
  
ForeignCurrency (1)
 
 
NetUnrealizedGain onSecurities
 
 
Derivatives
 
  
Total
 

 Balance at August 28, 2010
  
$
59,359
  
  
$
44,748
  
 
$
(650
) 
 
$
3,011
  
  
$
106,468
  

 Fiscal 2011 activity
  
 
17,346
  
  
 
(8,347
) 
 
 
171
  
 
 
4,053
  
  
 
13,223
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at August 27, 2011
  
 
76,705
  
  
 
36,401
  
 
 
(479
) 
 
 
7,064
  
  
 
119,691
  

 Fiscal 2012 activity
  
 
17,262
  
  
 
13,866
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
1,066
  
  
 
32,322
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at August 25, 2012
  
$
93,967
  
  
$
50,267
  
 
$
(351
) 
 
$
8,130
  
  
$
152,013
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Foreign currency is not shown net of deferred tax as earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries are intended to be permanently reinvested. 
During fiscal 2012, the Company was party to four treasury rate locks. Two of the treasury rate locks were settled during third quarter of fiscal 2012,
resulting in a loss of $2.8 million. The remaining two treasury rate locks are outstanding as of August 25, 2012, and have a liability balance of $4.9 million at the balance sheet date. The net losses on the four treasury rate locks are
partially offset by net losses from prior derivatives being amortized into Interest expense of $1.9 million. The net derivative activity in fiscal 2011 reflects net losses on three forward starting swaps, resulting in a loss of $5.4 million, offset
by net losses from prior derivatives being amortized into Interest expense of $1.4 million. 
Note H – Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Company periodically uses derivatives to hedge exposures to interest rates. The Company does not hold or issue financial
instruments for trading purposes. For transactions that meet the hedge accounting criteria, the Company formally designates and documents the instrument as a hedge at inception and quarterly thereafter assesses the hedges to ensure they are
effective in offsetting changes in the cash flows of the underlying exposures. Derivatives are recorded in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, determined using available market information or other appropriate valuation
methodologies. In accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, the effective portion of a financial instrument’s change in fair value is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss for derivatives that qualify as cash
flow hedges and any ineffective portion of an instrument’s change in fair value is recognized in earnings.  During the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2012, the Company entered into two treasury rate locks, each with a notional amount of $100 million. These agreements, which are set to expire on November 1, 2012, are cash flow hedges used to hedge the exposure to variability in future
cash flows resulting from changes in variable interest rates relating to an anticipated debt transaction. The fixed rates of the hedges are 2.07% and 1.92% and are benchmarked based on the 10-year U.S. treasury notes. It is expected that upon
settlement of these agreements, the realized gain or loss will be deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and reclassified to Interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. As of August 25, 2012, no ineffectiveness was
recognized in earnings.  During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company entered into two treasury rate locks. These agreements were
designated as cash flow hedges and were used to hedge the exposure to variability in future cash flows resulting from changes in variable interest rates related to the $500 million Senior Note debt issuance in April 2012. The treasury rate locks had
notional amounts of $300 million and $100 million with associated fixed rates of 2.09% and 2.07% respectively. The locks were benchmarked based on the 10-year U.S. treasury notes. These locks expired on April 20, 2012 and resulted in a loss of
$2.8 million, which has been deferred in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be reclassified to Interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. The hedges remained highly effective until they expired, and no ineffectiveness was
recognized in earnings. 
  53 


Table of Contents
During the first quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company was party to three forward starting swaps, of which two
were entered into during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and one was entered into during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. These agreements were designated as cash flow hedges and were used to hedge the exposure to variability in future cash flows
resulting from changes in variable interest rates related to the $500 million Senior Note debt issuance during the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The swaps had notional amounts of $150 million, $150 million and $100 million with associated fixed
rates of 3.15%, 3.13%, and 2.57%, respectively. The swaps were benchmarked based on the 3-month London InterBank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). These swaps expired in November 2010 and resulted in a loss of $11.7 million, which has been deferred
in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and will be reclassified to Interest expense over the life of the underlying debt. The hedges remained highly effective until they expired, and no ineffectiveness was recognized in earnings. 
At August 25, 2012, the Company had $8.0 million recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss related to net realized losses associated with
terminated interest rate swap and treasury rate lock derivatives which were designated as hedging instruments. Net losses are amortized into Interest expense over the remaining life of the associated debt. During the fiscal year ended
August 25, 2012, the Company reclassified $1.9 million of net losses from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Interest expense. In the fiscal year ended August 27, 2011, the Company reclassified $1.4 million of net losses from
Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Interest expense. The Company expects to reclassify $904 thousand of net losses from Accumulated other comprehensive loss to Interest expense over the next 12 months. 
Note I – Financing 
The Company’s long-term debt consisted of the following: 
 












 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
  
August 27,2011
 

 5.875% Senior Notes due October 2012, effective interest rate of 6.33%
  
$
300,000
  
  
$
300,000
  

 4.375% Senior Notes due June 2013, effective interest rate of 5.65%
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
200,000
  

 6.500% Senior Notes due January 2014, effective interest rate of 6.63%
  
 
500,000
  
  
 
500,000
  

 5.750% Senior Notes due January 2015, effective interest rate of 5.89%
  
 
500,000
  
  
 
500,000
  

 5.500% Senior Notes due November 2015, effective interest rate of 4.86%
  
 
300,000
  
  
 
300,000
  

 6.950% Senior Notes due June 2016, effective interest rate of 7.09%
  
 
200,000
  
  
 
200,000
  

 7.125% Senior Notes due August 2018, effective interest rate of 7.28%
  
 
250,000
  
  
 
250,000
  

 4.000% Senior Notes due November 2020, effective interest rate of 4.43%
  
 
500,000
  
  
 
500,000
  

 3.700% Senior Notes due April 2022, effective interest rate of 3.85%
  
 
500,000
  
  
 
—  
  

 Commercial paper, weighted average interest rate of 0.42% at August 25, 2012, and 0.35% at August 27,
2011
  
 
468,302
  
  
 
567,600
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
3,718,302
  
  
$
3,317,600
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of August 25, 2012, the commercial paper borrowings, the 5.875% Senior Notes due October 2012, and the 4.375%
Senior Notes due June 2013 mature in the next twelve months but are classified as long-term in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets, as the Company has the ability and intent to refinance them on a long-term basis. Specifically, excluding
the effect of commercial paper borrowings, the Company had $996.6 million of availability under its $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, expiring in September 2016 that would allow it to replace these short-term obligations with long-term
financing.  In addition to the long-term debt discussed above, the Company had $49.9 million of short-term borrowings that are scheduled to
mature in the next twelve months as of August 25, 2012. The short-term borrowings are $45.1 million of commercial paper borrowings that accrue interest at 0.42% and $4.8 million of unsecured, peso denominated borrowings that accrue interest at
4.57% as of August 25, 2012. 
  54 


Table of Contents
In September 2011, the Company amended and restated its $800 million revolving credit facility, which was
scheduled to expire in July 2012. The capacity under the revolving credit facility was increased to $1.0 billion. This credit facility is available to primarily support commercial paper borrowings, letters of credit and other short-term, unsecured
bank loans. The capacity of the credit facility may be increased to $1.250 billion prior to the maturity date at the Company’s election and subject to bank credit capacity and approval, may include up to $200 million in letters of credit, and
may include up to $175 million in capital leases each fiscal year. Under the revolving credit facility, the Company may borrow funds consisting of Eurodollar loans or base rate loans. Interest accrues on Eurodollar loans at a defined Eurodollar
rate, defined as LIBOR plus the applicable percentage, as defined in the revolving credit facility, depending upon the Company’s senior, unsecured, (non-credit enhanced) long-term debt rating. Interest accrues on base rate loans as defined in
the credit facility. The Company also has the option to borrow funds under the terms of a swingline loan subfacility. The revolving credit facility expires in September 2016.  The revolving credit facility agreement requires that the Company’s consolidated interest coverage ratio as of the last day of each quarter shall be no less than 2.50:1. This ratio is defined as the
ratio of (i) consolidated earnings before interest, taxes and rents to (ii) consolidated interest expense plus consolidated rents. The Company’s consolidated interest coverage ratio as of August 25, 2012 was 4.58:1. 
In June 2010, the Company entered into a letter of credit facility that allows the Company to request the participating bank to issue letters of credit
on the Company’s behalf up to an aggregate amount of $100 million. The letter of credit facility is in addition to the letters of credit that may be issued under the revolving credit facility. As of August 25, 2012, the Company has $98.7
million in letters of credit outstanding under the letter of credit facility, which expires in June 2013.  On April 24, 2012, the Company
issued $500 million in 3.700% Senior Notes due April 2022 under the Company’s shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 17, 2012 (the “Shelf Registration”). The Shelf Registration
allows the Company to sell an indeterminate amount in debt securities to fund general corporate purposes, including repaying, redeeming or repurchasing outstanding debt and for working capital, capital expenditures, new store openings, stock
repurchases and acquisitions. The Company used the proceeds from the issuance of debt to repay a portion of the commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes.  On November 15, 2010, the Company issued $500 million in 4.000% Senior Notes due 2020 under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29, 2008. The
Company used the proceeds from the issuance of debt to repay the principal due relating to the $199.3 million in 4.750% Senior Notes that matured on November 15, 2010, to repay a portion of the commercial paper borrowings and for general
corporate purposes.  The 5.750% Senior Notes issued in July 2009 and the 6.500% and 7.125% Senior Notes issued during August 2008,
(collectively, the “Notes”), are subject to an interest rate adjustment if the debt ratings assigned to the Notes are downgraded. The Notes, along with the 3.700% Senior Notes issued in April 2012 and the 4.000% Senior Notes issued in
during November 2010, also contain a provision that repayment of the notes may be accelerated if the Company experiences a change in control (as defined in the agreements). The Company’s borrowings under its other senior notes contain minimal
covenants, primarily restrictions on liens. Under the revolving credit facility, covenants include limitations on total indebtedness, restrictions on liens, a maximum debt to earnings ratio, and a change of control provision that may require
acceleration of the repayment obligations under certain circumstances. These covenants are in addition to the consolidated interest coverage ratio discussed above. All of the repayment obligations under the borrowing arrangements may be accelerated
and come due prior to the scheduled payment date if covenants are breached or an event of default occurs. 
  55 


Table of Contents
As of August 25, 2012, the Company was in compliance with all covenants related to its borrowing
arrangements. All of the Company’s debt is unsecured. Scheduled maturities of long-term debt are as follows:   








 (in thousands)
  
ScheduledMaturities
 

 2013
  
$
968,302
  

 2014
  
 
500,000
  

 2015
  
 
500,000
  

 2016
  
 
500,000
  

 2017
  
 
—  
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1,250,000
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
3,718,302
  


  
  
  
 
 The fair value of the Company’s debt was estimated at $4.055 billion as of August 25, 2012, and $3.633 billion
as of August 27, 2011, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates available to the Company for debt of the same terms (Level 2). Such fair value is greater than the carrying value of debt by $286.6
million and $281.0 million at August 25, 2012 and August 27, 2011, respectively. 
Note J – Interest Expense 
Net interest expense consisted of the following:   
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Interest expense
  
$
178,547
  
 
$
173,674
  
 
$
162,628
  

 Interest income
  
 
(1,397
) 
 
 
(2,058
) 
 
 
(2,626
) 

 Capitalized interest
  
 
(1,245
) 
 
 
(1,059
) 
 
 
(1,093
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
175,905
  
 
$
170,557
  
 
$
158,909
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Note K – Stock Repurchase Program 
During 1998, the Company announced a program permitting the Company to repurchase a portion of its outstanding shares not to exceed a
dollar maximum established by the Board. The program was last amended on March 7, 2012 to increase the repurchase authorization to $11.90 billion from $11.15 billion. From January 1998 to August 25, 2012, the Company has repurchased a
total of 131.1 million shares at an aggregate cost of $11.5 billion.  The Company’s share repurchase activity consisted of the
following:   
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
  
August 27,2011
 
  
August 28,2010
 

 Amount
  
$
1,362,869
  
  
$
1,466,802
  
  
$
1,123,655
  

 Shares
  
 
3,795
  
  
 
5,598
  
  
 
6,376
  
 During the fiscal year 2012, the Company retired 4.9 million shares of treasury stock which had previously been
repurchased under the Company’s share repurchase program. The retirement increased Retained deficit by $1,319.6 million and decreased Additional paid-in capital by $72.5 million. During the comparable prior year period, the Company retired
6.6 million shares of treasury stock, which increased Retained deficit by $1,247.7 million and decreased Additional paid-in capital by $82.2 million. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Subsequent to August 25, 2012, the Board voted to increase the authorization by $750 million to raise
the cumulative share repurchase authorization from $11.90 billion to $12.65 billion. We have repurchased 629,168 shares of common stock at an aggregate cost of $234.6 million during fiscal 2013. 
Note L – Pension and Savings Plans 
Prior to January 1, 2003, substantially all full-time employees were covered by a defined benefit pension plan. The benefits under
the plan were based on years of service and the employee’s highest consecutive five-year average compensation. On January 1, 2003, the plan was frozen. Accordingly, pension plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula
and no new participants will join the pension plan.  On January 1, 2003, the Company’s supplemental defined benefit pension plan for
certain highly compensated employees was also frozen. Accordingly, plan participants will earn no new benefits under the plan formula and no new participants will join the pension plan.  The Company has recognized the unfunded status of the defined pension plans in its Consolidated Balance Sheets, which represents the difference between the fair value of pension plan assets and the
projected benefit obligations of its defined benefit pension plans. The net unrecognized actuarial losses and unrecognized prior service costs are recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss. These amounts will be subsequently recognized as net
periodic pension expense pursuant to the Company’s historical accounting policy for amortizing such amounts. Further, actuarial gains and losses that arise in subsequent periods and are not recognized as net periodic pension expense in the same
periods will be recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. Those amounts will be subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic pension expense on the same basis as the amounts previously recognized in Accumulated other
comprehensive loss.  The Company’s investment strategy for pension plan assets is to utilize a diversified mix of domestic and
international equity and fixed income portfolios to earn a long-term investment return that meets the Company’s pension plan obligations. The pension plan assets are invested primarily in listed securities, and the pension plans hold only a
minimal investment in AutoZone common stock that is entirely at the discretion of third-party pension fund investment managers. The Company’s largest holding classes, U.S. equities and fixed income bonds, are invested with a fund manager that
holds diversified portfolios. Accordingly, the Company does not have any significant concentrations of risk in particular securities, issuers, sectors, industries or geographic regions. Alternative investment strategies are in the process of being
liquidated and constitute less than 2% of the pension plan assets. The Company’s investment managers are prohibited from using derivatives for speculative purposes and are not permitted to use derivatives to leverage a portfolio. 
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for the Company’s investments measured at fair value: 
U.S., international, emerging, and high yield equities – These investments are commingled funds and are valued using the net
asset values, which are determined by valuing investments at the closing price or last trade reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded. These investments are subject to annual audits. 
Alternative investments – This category represents a hedge fund of funds made up of 16 different hedge fund managers
diversified over 9 different hedge strategies. The fair value of the hedge fund of funds is determined using valuations provided by the third party administrator for each of the underlying funds. 
Real estate – The valuation of these investments requires significant judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the
inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These investments are valued based upon recommendations of our investment manager incorporating factors such as contributions and distributions, market transactions, and market
comparables.  Fixed income securities – The fair values of corporate, U.S. government securities and other fixed
income securities are estimated by using bid evaluation pricing models or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics. 
  57 


Table of Contents
Cash and cash equivalents – These investments include cash equivalents valued
using exchange rates provided by an industry pricing vendor and commingled funds valued using the net asset value. These investments also include cash.  The fair values of investments by level and asset category and the weighted-average asset allocations of the Company’s pension plans at the measurement date are presented in the following table:
  




























 
  
August 25, 2012
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
FairValue
 
  
Asset Allocation
 
 
Fair Value Hierarchy
 

 (in thousands)
  
  
Actual
 
 
Target
 
 
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 U.S. equities
  
$
51,101
  
  
 
28.2
% 
 
 
30.0
% 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
51,101
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equities
  
 
31,767
  
  
 
17.5
  
 
 
20.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
31,767
  
  
 
—  
  

 Emerging equities
  
 
16,471
  
  
 
9.1
  
 
 
10.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
16,471
  
  
 
—  
  

 High yield equities
  
 
17,378
  
  
 
9.6
  
 
 
10.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
17,378
  
  
 
—  
  

 Alternative investments
  
 
2,404
  
  
 
1.3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,404
  

 Fixed income securities
  
 
47,667
  
  
 
26.3
  
 
 
30.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
47,667
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
14,621
  
  
 
8.0
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
14,621
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
181,409
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
179,005
  
  
$
2,404
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




























 
  
August 27, 2011
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  
FairValue
 
  
Asset Allocation
 
 
Fair Value Hierarchy
 

 (in thousands)
  
  
Actual
 
 
Target
 
 
Level 1
 
  
Level 2
 
  
Level 3
 

 U.S. equities
  
$
40,092
  
  
 
25.5
% 
 
 
30.0
% 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
40,092
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equities
  
 
28,378
  
  
 
18.1
  
 
 
20.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
28,378
  
  
 
—  
  

 Emerging equities
  
 
12,086
  
  
 
7.7
  
 
 
10.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
12,086
  
  
 
—  
  

 High yield equities
  
 
12,547
  
  
 
8.0
  
 
 
10.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
12,547
  
  
 
—  
  

 Alternative investments
  
 
2,807
  
  
 
1.8
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,807
  

 Real estate
  
 
2,474
  
  
 
1.6
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,474
  

 Fixed income securities
  
 
27,321
  
  
 
17.4
  
 
 
30.0
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
27,321
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
 
31,178
  
  
 
19.9
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
31,178
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
156,883
  
  
 
100.0
% 
 
 
100.0
% 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
151,602
  
  
$
5,281
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The August 25, 2012 actual asset allocation in the chart above includes an $8.7 million cash contribution made prior
to August 25, 2012. Subsequent to August 25, 2012, this cash contribution was allocated to the pension plan investments in accordance with the targeted asset allocation.  In August 2011, the Company’s Investment Committee approved a revised asset allocation target for the investments held by the pension plan. Based on the revised asset allocation target, the expected
long-term rate of return on plan assets changed from 8.0% in fiscal 2011 to 7.5% for the year ending August 25, 2012. The August 27, 2011 actual asset allocation in the chart above includes a $28.3 million cash contribution made prior to
August 27, 2011. Subsequent to August 27, 2011, this cash contribution was allocated to the pension plan investments to achieve the revised asset allocation target. 
  58 


Table of Contents
The change in fair value of Level 3 assets that use significant unobservable inputs is presented in the
following table:   








 (in thousands)
  
Level 3Assets
 

 Beginning balance – August 27, 2011
  
$
5,281
  

 Actual return on plan assets:
  




 Assets held at August 25, 2012
  
 
55
  

 Assets sold during the year
  
 
168
  

 Sales and settlements
  
 
(3,100
) 


  
  
  
 

 Ending balance – August 25, 2012
  
$
2,404
  


  
  
  
 
 The following table sets forth the plans’ funded status and amounts recognized in the Company’s Consolidated
Balance Sheets:   












 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 

 Change in Projected Benefit Obligation:
  



 




 Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
241,645
  
 
$
211,536
  

 Interest cost
  
 
12,214
  
 
 
11,135
  

 Actuarial losses
  
 
56,749
  
 
 
23,746
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(5,402
) 
 
 
(4,772
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligations at end of year
  
$
305,206
  
 
$
241,645
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in Plan Assets:
  



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
$
156,883
  
 
$
117,243
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
14,505
  
 
 
10,336
  

 Employer contributions
  
 
15,423
  
 
 
34,076
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(5,402
) 
 
 
(4,772
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
$
181,409
  
 
$
156,883
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amount Recognized in the Statement of Financial Position:
  



 




 Current liabilities
  
$
(30
) 
 
$
(27
) 

 Long-term liabilities
  
 
(123,767
) 
 
 
(84,736
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net amount recognized
  
$
(123,797
) 
 
$
(84,763
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amount Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and not yet reflected in Net Periodic Benefit
Cost:
  



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
$
(154,678
) 
 
$
(106,972
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accumulated other comprehensive loss
  
$
(154,678
) 
 
$
(106,972
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amount Recognized in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and not yet reflected in Net Periodic Benefit Cost and expected to
be amortized in next year’s Net Periodic Benefit Cost:
  



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
$
(14,721
) 
 
$
(9,795
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amount recognized
  
$
(14,721
) 
 
$
(9,795
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  59 


Table of Contents
Net periodic benefit expense consisted of the following: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Interest cost
  
$
12,214
  
 
$
11,135
  
 
$
11,315
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(11,718
) 
 
 
(9,326
) 
 
 
(9,045
) 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Recognized net actuarial losses
  
 
9,795
  
 
 
9,405
  
 
 
8,135
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit expense
  
$
10,291
  
 
$
11,214
  
 
$
10,405
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The actuarial assumptions used in determining the projected benefit obligation include the following: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Weighted average discount rate
  
 
3.90
% 
 
 
5.13
% 
 
 
5.25
% 

 Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets
  
 
7.50
% 
 
 
8.00
% 
 
 
8.00
% 
 As the plan benefits are frozen, increases in future compensation levels no longer impact the calculation and there is no
service cost. The discount rate is determined as of the measurement date and is based on the calculated yield of a portfolio of high-grade corporate bonds with cash flows that generally match the Company’s expected benefit payments in future
years. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the historical relationships between the investment classes and the capital markets, updated for current conditions.  The Company makes annual contributions in amounts at least equal to the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. The Company contributed $15.4 million to the
plans in fiscal 2012, $34.1 million to the plans in fiscal 2011 and $12 thousand to the plans in fiscal 2010. The Company expects to contribute approximately $9 million to the plans in fiscal 2013; however, a change to the expected cash funding may
be impacted by a change in interest rates or a change in the actual or expected return on plan assets.  Based on current assumptions about
future events, benefit payments are expected to be paid as follows for each of the following fiscal years. Actual benefit payments may vary significantly from the following estimates: 
 








 (in thousands)
  
BenefitPayments
 

 2013
  
$
7,438
  

 2014
  
 
8,182
  

 2015
  
 
8,867
  

 2016
  
 
9,583
  

 2017
  
 
10,164
  

 2018 – 2022
  
 
60,567
  
 The Company has a 401(k) plan that covers all domestic employees who meet the plan’s participation requirements. The
plan features include Company matching contributions, immediate 100% vesting of Company contributions and a savings option up to 25% of qualified earnings. The Company makes matching contributions, per pay period, up to a specified percentage of
employees’ contributions as approved by the Board. The Company made matching contributions to employee accounts in connection with the 401(k) plan of $14.4 million in fiscal 2012, $13.3 million in fiscal 2011 and $11.7 million in fiscal 2010.

  60 


Table of Contents
Note M – Leases 
The Company leases some of its retail stores, distribution centers, facilities, land and equipment, including vehicles. Other than
vehicle leases, most of the leases are operating leases, which include renewal options made at the Company’s election, options to purchase and provisions for percentage rent based on sales. Rental expense was $229.4 million in fiscal 2012,
$213.8 million in fiscal 2011, and $195.6 million in fiscal 2010. Percentage rentals were insignificant.  The Company has a fleet of vehicles
used for delivery to its commercial customers and stores and travel for members of field management. The majority of these vehicles are held under capital lease. At August 25, 2012, the Company had capital lease assets of $104.2 million, net of
accumulated amortization of $36.4 million, and capital lease obligations of $102.3 million, of which $29.8 million is classified as Accrued expenses and other as it represents the current portion of these obligations. At August 27, 2011, the
Company had capital lease assets of $86.6 million, net of accumulated amortization of $30.2 million, and capital lease obligations of $86.7 million, of which $25.3 million was classified as Accrued expenses and other. 
The Company records rent for all operating leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term, including any reasonably assured renewal periods and the
period of time prior to the lease term that the Company is in possession of the leased space for the purpose of installing leasehold improvements. Differences between recorded rent expense and cash payments are recorded as a liability in Accrued
expenses and other and Other long-term liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on the terms of the lease. The deferred rent approximated $86.9 million on August 25, 2012, and $77.6 million on August 27, 2011.
 Future minimum annual rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases and capital leases were as follows at the end of fiscal 2012:
  












 (in thousands)
  
OperatingLeases
 
  
CapitalLeases
 

 2013
  
$
217,844
  
  
$
29,842
  

 2014
  
 
209,300
  
  
 
28,859
  

 2015
  
 
192,296
  
  
 
24,520
  

 2016
  
 
174,844
  
  
 
17,181
  

 2017
  
 
157,691
  
  
 
5,002
  

 Thereafter
  
 
958,435
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total minimum payments required
  
$
1,910,410
  
  
 
105,404
  


  
  
  
 
  




 Less: Interest
  



  
 
(3,148
) 


  



  
  
  
 

 Present value of minimum capital lease payments
  



  
$
102,256
  


  



  
  
  
 
 In connection with the Company’s December 2001 sale of the TruckPro business, the Company subleased some properties
to the purchaser for an initial term of not less than 20 years. The Company’s remaining aggregate rental obligation at August 25, 2012 of $17.3 million is included in the above table, but the obligation is entirely offset by the sublease
rental agreement. 
Note N – Commitments and Contingencies 
Construction commitments, primarily for new stores, totaled approximately $25.6 million at August 25, 2012. 
The Company had $102.3 million in outstanding standby letters of credit and $33.1 million in surety bonds as of August 25, 2012, which all have
expiration periods of less than one year. A substantial portion of the outstanding standby letters of credit (which are primarily renewed on an annual basis) and surety bonds are used to cover reimbursement obligations to our workers’
compensation carriers. There are no additional contingent liabilities associated with these instruments as the underlying liabilities are already reflected in the consolidated balance sheet. The standby letters of credit and surety bonds
arrangements have automatic renewal clauses. 
  61 


Table of Contents
Note O – Litigation 
In 2004, the Company acquired a store site in Mount Ephraim, New Jersey that had previously been the site of a gasoline service station
and contained evidence of groundwater contamination. Upon acquisition, the Company voluntarily reported the groundwater contamination issue to the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and entered into a Voluntary Remediation Agreement
providing for the remediation of the contamination associated with the property. The Company has conducted and paid for (at an immaterial cost to the Company) remediation of contamination on the property. The Company is also investigating, and will
be addressing, potential vapor intrusion impacts in downgradient residences and businesses. The New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection has indicated that it will assert that the Company is liable for the downgradient impacts under a joint
and severable liability theory, and the Company intends to contest any such assertions due to the existence of other sources of contamination in the area of the property. Pursuant to the Voluntary Remediation Agreement, upon completion of all
remediation required by the agreement, the Company believes it should be eligible to be reimbursed up to 75 percent of qualified remediation costs by the State of New Jersey. The Company has asked the state for clarification that the agreement
applies to off-site work, and the state is considering the request. Although the aggregate amount of additional costs that the Company may incur pursuant to the remediation cannot currently be ascertained, the Company does not currently believe that
fulfillment of its obligations under the agreement or otherwise will result in costs that are material to its financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.  The Company is involved in various other legal proceedings incidental to the conduct of its business, including several lawsuits containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs are current and
former hourly and salaried employees who allege various wage and hour violations and unlawful termination practices. The Company does not currently believe that, either individually or in the aggregate, these matters will result in liabilities
material to the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Note P – Segment Reporting 
The Company’s two operating segments (Domestic Auto Parts and Mexico) have been aggregated as one reportable segment: Auto Parts
Stores. The criteria the Company used to identify the reportable segment are primarily the nature of the products the Company sells and the operating results that are regularly reviewed by the Company’s chief operating decision maker to make
decisions about the resources to be allocated to the business units and to assess performance. The accounting policies of the Company’s reportable segment are the same as those described in Note A. 
The Auto Parts Stores segment is a retailer and distributor of automotive parts and accessories through the Company’s 5,006 stores in the United
States, Puerto Rico, and Mexico. Each store carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive
products.  The “Other” category reflects business activities that are not separately reportable, including ALLDATA which produces,
sells and maintains diagnostic and repair information software used in the automotive repair industry, and e-Commerce, which includes direct sales to customers through www.autozone.com. 
The Company evaluates its reportable segment primarily on the basis of net sales and segment profit, which is defined as gross profit. 
  62 


Table of Contents
The following table shows segment results for the following fiscal years: 
 
















 
  
Year Ended
 

 (in thousands)
  
August 25,2012
 
 
August 27,2011
 
 
August 28,2010
 

 Net Sales:
  



 



 




 Auto Parts Stores
  
$
8,422,559
  
 
$
7,906,692
  
 
$
7,213,753
  

 Other
  
 
181,304
  
 
 
166,281
  
 
 
148,865
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
8,603,863
  
 
$
8,072,973
  
 
$
7,362,618
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment Profit:
  



 



 




 Auto Parts Stores
  
$
4,292,474
  
 
$
3,989,852
  
 
$
3,591,464
  

 Other
  
 
139,562
  
 
 
129,611
  
 
 
120,280
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Gross profit
  
 
4,432,036
  
 
 
4,119,463
  
 
 
3,711,744
  

 Operating, selling, general and administrative expenses
  
 
(2,803,145
) 
 
 
(2,624,660
) 
 
 
(2,392,330
) 

 Interest expense, net
  
 
(175,905
) 
 
 
(170,557
) 
 
 
(158,909
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income before income taxes
  
$
1,452,986
  
 
$
1,324,246
  
 
$
1,160,505
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment Assets:
  



 



 




 Auto Parts Stores
  
$
6,214,688
  
 
$
5,827,285
  
 
$
5,531,955
  

 Other
  
 
50,951
  
 
 
42,317
  
 
 
39,639
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
6,265,639
  
 
$
5,869,602
  
 
$
5,571,594
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Capital Expenditures:
  



 



 




 Auto Parts Stores
  
$
364,361
  
 
$
316,074
  
 
$
307,725
  

 Other
  
 
13,693
  
 
 
5,530
  
 
 
7,675
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
378,054
  
 
$
321,604
  
 
$
315,400
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Auto Parts Stores Sales by Product Grouping:
  



 



 




 Failure
  
$
3,793,963
  
 
$
3,530,497
  
 
$
3,145,528
  

 Maintenance items
  
 
3,196,807
  
 
 
3,051,672
  
 
 
2,792,610
  

 Discretionary
  
 
1,431,789
  
 
 
1,324,523
  
 
 
1,275,615
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Auto Parts Stores net sales
  
$
8,422,559
  
 
$
7,906,692
  
 
$
7,213,753
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  63 


Table of Contents
Note Q – Quarterly Summary (1) 
(Unaudited)   




















 
  
Twelve Weeks Ended
 
  
SixteenWeeks Ended
 

 (in thousands, except per share data)
  
November 19,2011
 
  
February 11,2012
 
  
May 5,2012
 
  
August 
25,2012(2)
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,924,341
  
  
$
1,804,069
  
  
$
2,111,866
  
  
$
2,763,585
  

 Gross profit
  
 
983,627
  
  
 
926,215
  
  
 
1,089,799
  
  
 
1,432,394
  

 Operating profit
  
 
340,934
  
  
 
300,651
  
  
 
427,250
  
  
 
560,056
  

 Income before income taxes
  
 
301,840
  
  
 
261,728
  
  
 
387,507
  
  
 
501,911
  

 Net income
  
 
191,125
  
  
 
166,930
  
  
 
248,586
  
  
 
323,733
  

 Basic earnings per share
  
 
4.79
  
  
 
4.25
  
  
 
6.43
  
  
 
8.65
  

 Diluted earnings per share
  
 
4.68
  
  
 
4.15
  
  
 
6.28
  
  
 
8.46
  
  




















 
  
Twelve Weeks Ended
 
  
SixteenWeeks Ended
 

 (in thousands, except per share data)
  
November 20,2010
 
  
February 12,2011
 
  
May 7,2011
 
  
August 
27,2011(2)
 

 Net sales
  
$
1,791,662
  
  
$
1,660,946
  
  
$
1,978,369
  
  
$
2,641,996
  

 Gross profit
  
 
907,748
  
  
 
845,611
  
  
 
1,013,530
  
  
 
1,352,574
  

 Operating profit
  
 
306,121
  
  
 
271,748
  
  
 
392,925
  
  
 
524,010
  

 Income before income taxes
  
 
268,868
  
  
 
232,172
  
  
 
353,009
  
  
 
470,197
  

 Net income
  
 
172,076
  
  
 
148,056
  
  
 
227,373
  
  
 
301,469
  

 Basic earnings per share
  
 
3.85
  
  
 
3.41
  
  
 
5.42
  
  
 
7.35
  

 Diluted earnings per share
  
 
3.77
  
  
 
3.34
  
  
 
5.29
  
  
 
7.18
  
  


(1)
The sum of quarterly amounts may not equal the annual amounts reported due to rounding. In addition, the earnings per share amounts are computed independently for
each quarter while the full year is based on the annual weighted average shares outstanding. 


(2)
The fourth quarter for fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 are based on a 16-week period. All other quarters presented are based on a 12-week period.
 Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure  Not applicable.  
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  As of August 25, 2012, an evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the
participation of AutoZone’s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as amended. Based on that evaluation, our management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. During our fiscal
fourth quarter ended August 25, 2012, there were no changes in our internal controls that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. 
Item 9B. Other Information  Not applicable. 
  64 


Table of Contents
PART III 
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
The information set forth in Part I of this document in the section entitled “Executive Officers of the Registrant,” is incorporated herein by
reference in response to this item. Additionally, the information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 22, 2012, in the sections entitled “Proposal 1 – Election of Directors” and “Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.  The Company has adopted a Code
of Ethical Conduct for Financial Executives that applies to its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and persons performing similar functions. The Company has filed a copy of this Code of Ethical Conduct as
Exhibit 14.1 to this Form 10-K. The Company has also made the Code of Ethical Conduct available on its investor relations website at http://www.autozoneinc.com.  Item 11. Executive Compensation  The information contained
in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 22, 2012, in the section entitled “Executive Compensation,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 22, 2012, in the sections entitled “Security Ownership of Management and Board of Directors” and
“Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.  
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  Not applicable. 
Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  The information contained in AutoZone, Inc.’s Proxy Statement dated October 22, 2012, in the section entitled “Proposal 2 – Ratification of Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm,” is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item. 
  65 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  The following information required under this item is filed as part of this report.  (a)
Financial Statements  The following financial statements, related notes and reports of independent registered public accounting firm are
filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part II, Item 8:   




 Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

 Consolidated Statements of Income for the fiscal years ended August 25, 2012, August 27, 2011,
and August 28, 2010

 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the fiscal years ended August 25, 2012, August 27, 2011,
and August 28, 2010

 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of August 25, 2012, and August 27, 2011

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended August 25, 2012, August 27, 2011, and August
28, 2010

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Deficit for the fiscal years ended August 25, 2012, August 27, 2011, and
August 28, 2010

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
 (b) Exhibits  The Exhibit Index following this document’s signature pages is incorporated herein by reference in response to this item.  (c) Financial Statement Schedules  Schedules are omitted because the information is not
required or because the information required is included in the financial statements or notes thereto. 
  66 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly
authorized.   






AUTOZONE, INC.




By:
 
 /s/ WILLIAM C. RHODES, III


 
William C. Rhodes, III


 
Chairman, President and


 
Chief Executive Officer


 
(Principal Executive Officer)
 Dated: October 22, 2012  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated:   








 SIGNATURE
  
 TITLE
 
 DATE





 /s/ WILLIAM C. RHODES, III
  
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
 
October 22, 2012

 William C. Rhodes, III
  
(Principal Executive Officer)
 






 /s/ WILLIAM T. GILES
  
Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice
 
October 22, 2012

 William T. Giles
  
 President – Finance, Information Technology and ALLDATA (Principal Financial Officer)
 






 /s/ CHARLIE PLEAS, III
  
Senior Vice President and Controller
 
October 22, 2012

 Charlie Pleas, III
  
(Principal Accounting Officer)
 






 /s/ WILLIAM C. CROWLEY
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 William C. Crowley
  

 






 /s/ SUE E. GOVE
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 Sue E. Gove
  

 






 /s/ EARL G. GRAVES, JR.
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 Earl G. Graves, Jr.
  

 






 /s/ ROBERT R. GRUSKY
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 Robert R. Grusky
  

 






 
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 Enderson Guimaraes
  

 






 /s/ J.R. HYDE, III
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 J.R. Hyde, III
  

 






 /s/ W. ANDREW MCKENNA
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 W. Andrew McKenna
  

 






 /s/ GEORGE R. MRKONIC, JR.
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 George R. Mrkonic, Jr.
  

 






 /s/ LUIS P. NIETO
  
Director
 
October 22, 2012

 Luis P. Nieto
  

 


  67 


Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX  The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:   









3.1
  
Restated Articles of Incorporation of AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 13,
1999.




3.2
  
Fifth Amended and Restated By-laws of AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 28, 2011.




4.1
  
Senior Indenture, dated as of July 22, 1998, between AutoZone, Inc. and the First National Bank of Chicago. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form
8-K dated July 17, 1998.




4.2
  
Indenture dated as of August 8, 2003, between AutoZone, Inc. and Bank One Trust Company, N.A. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No.
333-107828) filed August 11, 2003.




4.3
  
Terms Agreement dated October 16, 2002, by and among AutoZone, Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as representatives of
the several underwriters named therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 18, 2002.




4.4
  
Form of 5.875% Note due 2012. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 18, 2002.




4.5
  
Terms Agreement dated May 29, 2003, by and among AutoZone, Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and SunTrust Capital Markets, Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters
named therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29, 2003.




4.6
  
Form of 4.375% Note due 2013. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 29, 2003.




4.7
  
Form of 5.5% Note due 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 3, 2003.




4.8
  
Terms Agreement dated June 8, 2006, by and among AutoZone, Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as representatives of the
several underwriters named therein. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 13, 2006.




4.9
  
Form of 6.95% Senior Note due 2016. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 13, 2006.




4.10
  
Officers’ Certificate dated August 4, 2008, pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Indenture dated August 11, 2003, setting forth the terms of the 6.5% Senior Notes due 2014.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008.




4.11
  
Form of 6.5% Senior Note due 2014. Incorporated by reference from the Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008.




4.12
  
Officers’ Certificate dated August 4, 2008, pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Indenture dated August 11, 2003, setting forth the terms of the 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008.




4.13
  
Form of 7.125% Senior Note due 2018. Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K dated August 4, 2008.

  68 


Table of Contents











 
    4.14
  
  
Officers’ Certificate dated July 2, 2009, pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Indenture dated August 11, 2003, setting forth the terms of the 5.75% Notes due 2015.
Incorporated by reference to 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 2, 2009.




 
    4.15
  
  
Form of 5.75% Senior Note due 2015. Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K dated July 2, 2009.




 
   4.16
  
  
Officers’ Certificate dated November 15, 2010, pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Indenture dated August 8, 2003, setting forth the terms of the 4.000% Notes due 2020. Incorporated
by reference to 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 15, 2010.




 
   4.17
  
  
Form of 4.000% Senior Note due 2020. Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K dated November 15, 2010.




 
   4.18
  
  
Officers’ Certificate dated April 24, 2012, pursuant to section 3.2 of the indenture dated August 8, 2003, setting forth the terms of the 3.700% Senior Notes due 2022.
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 24, 2012.




 
   4.19
  
  
Form of 3.700% Senior Notes due 2022. Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K dated April 24, 2012.




 
*10.1
  
  
Fourth Amended and Restated Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 4,
2002.




 
*10.2
  
  
Second Amended and Restated 1998 Director Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 26,
2000.




 
*10.3
  
  
Third Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30,
2003.




 
*10.4
  
  
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 23, 2002.




 
*10.5
  
  
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended November 23,
2002.




 
*10.6
  
  
AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Appendix C to the definitive proxy statement dated November 1, 2002, for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held December 12, 2002.




 
*10.7
  
  
AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Appendix D to the definitive proxy statement dated November 1, 2002, for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held December 12, 2002.




 
*10.8
  
  
Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
February 15, 2003.




 
*10.9
  
  
AutoZone, Inc. 2006 Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the definitive proxy statement dated October 25, 2006, for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held
December 13, 2006.




 
*10.10
  
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 25, 2007.




 
*10.11
  
  
AutoZone, Inc. Fifth Amended and Restated Executive Stock Purchase Plan.




 
*10.12
  
  
Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4,
2008.

  69 


Table of Contents









*10.13
  
Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Option Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4,
2008.




*10.14
  
AutoZone, Inc. Enhanced Severance Pay Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.




*10.15
  
Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement signed by each of the following executive officers: Mark A. Finestone, William T. Giles, William W. Graves, Ronald B. Griffin,
Lisa R. Kranc, Thomas B. Newbern, Charlie Pleas, III, Larry M. Roesel, and Mike A. Womack; and by AutoZone, Inc., with an effective date of February 14, 2008, for each. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K
dated February 15, 2008.




*10.16
  
Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement approved by AutoZone’s Compensation Committee for execution by non-executive officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
99.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 15, 2008.




*10.17
  
Agreement dated February 14, 2008, between AutoZone, Inc. and William C. Rhodes, III. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 15,
2008.




*10.18
  
Form of non-compete and non-solicitation agreement signed by each of the following officers: Rebecca W. Ballou, Dan Barzel, Craig Blackwell, Brian L. Campbell, Philip B. Daniele,
III, Robert A. Durkin, Bill Edwards, Joseph Espinosa, Preston B. Frazer, Stephany L. Goodnight, David Goudge, James C. Griffith, William R. Hackney, Rodney Halsell, Jeffery Lagges, Grantland E. McGee, Jr., Mitchell Major, Ann A. Morgan, J. Scott
Murphy, Jeffrey H. Nix, Raymond A. Pohlman, Elizabeth Rabun, Juan A. Santiago, Joe L. Sellers, Jr., Brett Shanaman, Jamey Traywick, Solomon Woldeslassie, and Kristen C. Wright; and by AutoZone, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 3, 2008.




*10.19
  
Second Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between AutoZone, Inc. and Harry L. Goldsmith dated December 29, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to
the Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 30, 2008.




*10.20
  
Amended and Restated Employment and Non-Compete Agreement between AutoZone, Inc. and Robert D. Olsen dated December 29, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 30, 2008.




*10.21
  
First Amendment to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between AutoZone, Inc. and Robert D. Olsen dated September 29, 2009. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 30, 2009.




*10.22
  
AutoZone, Inc. 2010 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the definitive proxy statement dated October 26, 2009, for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders held December 16, 2009.




*10.23
  
AutoZone, Inc. 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the definitive proxy statement dated October 25, 2010, for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders held December 15, 2010.




*10.24
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2006 Stock Option Plan, effective September 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q dated
December 16, 2010.

  70 


Table of Contents









*10.25
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2006 Stock Option Plan for certain executive officers, effective September 2010. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly
Report of Form 10-Q dated December 16, 2010.




*10.26
  
Form of Letter Agreement dated as of December 14, 2010, amending certain Stock Option Agreements of executive officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly
Report of Form 10-Q dated December 16, 2010.




*10.27
  
AutoZone, Inc. 2011 Director Compensation Program. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q dated December 16, 2010.




*10.28
  
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement dated December 15, 2010, between AutoZone, Inc. and William C. Rhodes, III, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Form 8-K dated December 15, 2010.




*10.29
  
Restricted Stock Award Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Award Agreement between AutoZone, Inc. and Robert D. Olsen dated January 25, 2011. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to the Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q dated March 17, 2011.




*10.30
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q dated March 17,
2011.




*10.31
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan for certain executive officers. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report of Form
10-Q dated March 17, 2011.




*10.32
  
First Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Enhanced Severance Pay Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report of Form 10-Q dated March 17,
2011.




*10.33
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan for officers effective September 27, 2011. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 to the Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 27, 2011.




*10.34
  
Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2011 Equity Incentive Award Plan for certain executive officers effective September 27, 2011. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 27, 2011.




  10.35
  
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of September, 13, 2011 among AutoZone, Inc. as Borrower, the several Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America,
N.A. as Administrative Agent and Swingline Lender, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Syndication Agent, arranged by Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as Joint Lead Arrangers and Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith Incorporated, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., U.S. Bank National Association, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and Barclays Capital as Joint Book Runners. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 27, 2011.




*10.36
  
Sixth Amended and Restated AutoZone, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August
27, 2011.




*10.37
  
Second Amended AutoZone, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 on Form 8-K filed December 14, 2011.




*10.38
  
Offer letter dated May 23, 2012, to Mike A. Womack.




*10.39
  
Offer letter dated April 26, 2012, to Ronald B. Griffin.




*10.40
  
Amended Non-Compete Agreement between AutoZone, Inc. and Jon A. Bascom dated May 25, 2012.

  71 


Table of Contents









12.1
 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




14.1
 
Code of Ethical Conduct. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended August 30, 2003.




21.1
 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant.




23.1
 
Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.




31.1
 
Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
 
Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.1
 
Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.2
 
Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 as adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




**101.INS
 
XBRL Instance Document




**101.SCH
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document




**101.CAL
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Document




**101.LAB
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Document




**101.PRE
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Document




**101.DEF
 
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Document
  


*
Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 


**
In accordance with Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files in Exhibit 101 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K shall be deemed “furnished” and not
“filed.” 
  72 



