
10-K
1
ocn_10k.htm











       
    

      UNITED STATES
    

      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
    

      Washington, D.C. 20549
    

       
    

      FORM 10-K
    

       
    

      (Mark one)
    

       
    

x ANNUAL REPORT
      PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934


      For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011
    

      OR
    

o TRANSITION
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


      For the transition period from: _____________________to
      _____________________
    

       
    

      Commission File No. 1-13219
    

       
    

      OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
    

      (Exact name of Registrant as specified in our charter)
    

       
    



            Florida
          

             
          

            65-0039856
          



            (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or
            organization)
          

             
          

            (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
          



            2002 Summit Boulevard
            6th Floor
            Atlanta, Georgia
          

             
          


            30319
          



            (Address of principal executive office)
          

             
          

            (Zip Code)
          



 


(561) 682-8000


      (Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)
    

       
    

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
    

       
    



            Common Stock, $.01 par value
          

             
          

            New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
          



            (Title of each class)
          

             
          

            (Name of each exchange on which registered)
          



       
    

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:
      Not applicable.
    

       
    

      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
      seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
      Act.
    

Yes
x No
o


       
    

Indicate by
      check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
      pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.


Yes
o No
x


       
    

Indicate by
      check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
      required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
      such shorter period that the registrant was required to file
      such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
      requirements for the past 90 days.


Yes
x No
o


       
    

Indicate by
      check mark whether the registrant has submitted
      electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
      every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and
      posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405
      of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such
      shorter period that the registrant was required to post such
      files).


Yes
x No
o


       
    

Indicate by
      check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
      Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
      not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s
      knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
      incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or
      any amendment to this Form 10-K. x


       
    

      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
      accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
      filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
      “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
      filer” and “smaller reporting company” in
      Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act:
    

       
    



Large
            Accelerated filer


x


             
          

Accelerated
            filer


o




Non-accelerated
            filer


o(Do not
            check if a smaller reporting company)
          

             
          

Smaller
            reporting company


o




       
    

Indicate by
      check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
      defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act) Yes o No
x


       
    

      Aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant
      held by nonaffiliates as of June 30, 2011: $986,058,629
    

       
    

      Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February
      23, 2012: 130,040,763 shares
    

       
    

      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of our
      definitive Proxy Statement with respect to our Annual Meeting
      of Shareholders to be held on May 9, 2012, are incorporated
      by reference into Part III, Items 10 - 14.
    

       
    















               
            




       
    

      OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
    

      2011 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
    

      TABLE OF CONTENTS
    





       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

            PAGE
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



PART I


             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 1.


Business


             
          

            3
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 1A.


Risk Factors


             
          

            15
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 1B.


Unresolved Staff Comments


             
          

            25
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 2.


Properties


             
          

            25
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 3.


Legal Proceedings


             
          

            25
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 4.


Mine Safety Disclosures


             
          

            26
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



PART II


             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 5.


Market for Registrant’s Common
            Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
            Purchases of Equity Securities


             
          

            26
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 6.


Selected Financial Data


             
          

            28
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 7.


Management’s Discussion and
            Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
            Operations...


             
          

            30
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 7A.


Quantitative and Qualitative
            Disclosures about Market Risk


             
          

            51
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 8.


Financial Statements and Supplementary
            Data


             
          

            53
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 9.


Changes in and Disagreements with
            Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


             
          

            53
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 9A.


Controls and Procedures


             
          

            53
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 9B.


Other Information


             
          

            54
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



PART III


             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 10.


Directors, Executive Officers and
            Corporate Governance


             
          

            54
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 11.


Executive Compensation


             
          

            54
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 12.


Security Ownership of Certain
            Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
            Stockholder Matters


             
          

            55
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 13.


Certain Relationships and Related
            Transactions, and Director Independence


             
          

            55
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 14.


Principal Accounting Fees and
            Services


             
          

            55
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



PART IV


             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Item 15.


Exhibits, Financial Statement
            Schedules


             
          

            55
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



Signatures




             
          

            58
          



       
    






              1
              








               
            




       
    

      Forward-Looking Statements
    

       
    

      This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within
      the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
      amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
      1934, as amended. All statements, other than statements of
      historical fact, included in this report, including, without
      limitation, statements regarding our financial position,
      business strategy and other plans and objectives for our
      future operations, are forward-looking statements.
    

       
    

      These statements include declarations regarding our
      management’s beliefs and current expectations. In some
      cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by
      terminology such as “may,” “will,”
      “should,” “could”,
      “intend,” “consider,”
      “expect,” “intend,”
      “plan,” “anticipate,”
      “believe,” “estimate,”
      “predict” or “continue” or the
      negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Such
      statements are not guarantees of future performance and
      involve a number of assumptions, risks and uncertainties that
      could cause actual results to materially differ from expected
      results. Important factors that could cause actual results to
      differ include, but are not limited to, the risks discussed
      in “Risk Factors” and the following:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            our sources of liquidity; our ability to fund and
            recover advances, repay borrowings and comply with debt
            covenants; and the adequacy of financial resources;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            servicing portfolio characteristics, including
            prepayment speeds, float balances and delinquency and
            advance rates;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our ability to grow or otherwise adapt our business,
            including the availability of new servicing
            opportunities and joint ventures;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our ability to integrate the systems, procedures and
            personnel of acquired companies;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our ability to reduce our cost structure;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our ability to modify successfully delinquent loans,
            manage foreclosures and sell foreclosed properties;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our reserves, valuations, provisions and anticipated
            realization on assets;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our ability to manage effectively our exposure to
            interest rate changes and foreign exchange
            fluctuations;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our credit and servicer ratings and other actions from
            various rating agencies;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            uncertainty related to general economic and market
            conditions, delinquency rates, home prices and
            disposition timelines on foreclosed properties;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            uncertainty related to the actions of loan owners,
            including mortgage-backed securities investors and
            government sponsored entities (GSEs), regarding loan
            putbacks, penalties or legal actions;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            uncertainty related to the processes for judicial and
            non-judicial foreclosure proceedings, including potential
            additional costs or delays or moratoria in the future
            or claims pertaining to past practices;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            uncertainty related to litigation or dispute resolution
            and inquiries from government agencies into past
            servicing and foreclosure practices;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            uncertainty related to legislation, regulations,
            regulatory agency actions, government programs and
            policies, industry initiatives and evolving best
            servicing practices; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            uncertainty related to acquisitions.
          



       
    

      Further information on the risks specific to our business is
      detailed within this report and our other reports and filings
      with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including
      our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on
      Form 8-K. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the
      date they were made and should not be relied upon. Ocwen
      Financial Corporation undertakes no obligation to update or
      revise forward-looking statements.
    

       
    

      For more information on the uncertainty of forward-looking
      statements, see “Risk Factors” in this Annual
      Report.
    

       
    






              2
              








               
            




       
    

PART I
    

       
    



ITEM 1.


BUSINESS




       
    

      GENERAL
    

       
    

      Ocwen Financial Corporation, through its subsidiaries, is a
      leading provider of residential and commercial mortgage loan
      servicing, special servicing and asset management services.
      When we use the terms “Ocwen,” “OCN,”
      “we,” “us” and “our,” we
      are referring to Ocwen Financial Corporation and its
      consolidated subsidiaries. Ocwen is headquartered in Atlanta,
      Georgia and has offices in West Palm Beach and Orlando,
      Florida, Houston, Texas, McDonough, Georgia, and Washington,
      DC and support operations in India and Uruguay. Ocwen
      Financial Corporation is a Florida corporation organized in
      February 1988. Ocwen Loan Servicing, LLC (OLS), a wholly
      owned subsidiary of Ocwen, is licensed to service mortgage
      loans in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and two U.S.
      territories. As of December 31, 2011, we serviced 671,623
      residential loans with an aggregate unpaid principal balance
      (UPB) of $102.2 billion. Ocwen and its predecessors have been
      servicing residential mortgage loans since 1988 and subprime
      mortgage loans since 1994. As of December 31, 2011, we also
      serviced 91 commercial assets totaling $290.9 million.
    

       
    

      On November 9, 2011, Ocwen completed the public offering of
      28,750,000 shares of common stock at a per share price of
      $13.00, including 3,750,000 shares of common stock purchased
      by the underwriters pursuant to the full exercise of the
      over-allotment option granted under the underwriting
      agreement. We received net proceeds of $354.4 million after
      deducting underwriting fees and other incremental costs
      directly related to the offering. In 2011, we used the net
      proceeds to temporarily reduce our borrowings under advance
      funding facilities rather than invest the proceeds at current
      short-term investment rates that our below our effective cost
      of borrowing. In 2012, we increased our advance borrowings in
      order to make these proceeds available to fund servicing
      acquisitions.
    

       
    

      On September 1, 2011, Ocwen completed its acquisition (the
      Litton Acquisition) of (i) all the outstanding partnership
      interests of Litton Loan Servicing LP (Litton), a subsidiary
      of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Goldman Sachs) and a
      provider of servicing and subservicing of primarily non-prime
      residential mortgage loans and (ii) certain interest-only
      servicing securities previously owned by Goldman Sachs &
      Co., also a subsidiary of Goldman Sachs (collectively
      referred to as Litton Loan Servicing Business). See Note 1
      and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
      additional information regarding the Litton Acquisition. The
      initial base purchase price for the Litton Acquisition was
      $247.2 million, which was paid in cash by Ocwen at closing.
      In addition, Ocwen repaid at closing Litton’s $2.4
      billion outstanding debt on an existing servicing advance
      financing facility that was provided by an affiliate of the
      Goldman Sachs. The actual base purchase price was increased
      by $0.2 million as a result of post-closing adjustments
      specified in the Agreement for changes in Litton’s
      estimated closing date net worth, servicing portfolio UPB and
      advance balances, among others. We do not anticipate any
      significant adjustments to the purchase price subsequent to
      December 31, 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we
      ceased operation of the Litton Loan Servicing Business
      platform.
    

       
    

      On September 1, 2010, Ocwen, through OLS, completed the
      acquisition of the U.S. non-prime mortgage servicing business
      of Barclays Bank PLC known as “HomEq Servicing”
      including, but not limited to, the mortgage servicing rights
      (MSRs) and associated servicer advances of the business as
      well as the servicing platforms based in Sacramento,
      California and Raleigh, North Carolina (the HomEq
      Acquisition). The sellers were Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays),
      and Barclays Capital Real Estate Inc. (BCRE). The HomEq
      Acquisition was completed in accordance with the provisions
      of the Asset Purchase Agreement dated May 28, 2010 among
      Barclays, BCRE, OLS and Ocwen. This transaction did not
      result in the transfer of ownership of any legal entities.
      OLS paid an initial aggregate purchase price of $1.2 billion
      in cash upon closing of the HomEq Acquisition, which was
      reduced by $29.6 million pursuant to an initial true-up of
      advances on September 30, 2010. As part of our reorganization
      and streamlining of the operations of HomEq Servicing
      following the acquisition, we transferred the duties of the
      HomEq employees to existing and newly-hired employees in the
      U.S. and India and shut down the leased facilities that we
      acquired.
    

       
    

      The purchase prices of these acquisitions were funded through
      a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds from
      borrowings under new and existing advance financing
      facilities and from senior secured term loan facilities.
    

       
    

      We acquired Litton and HomEq Servicing in order to grow our
      Servicing segment. The Litton Acquisition increased our
      servicing portfolio by 245,000 residential mortgage loans
      with an aggregate UPB of approximately $38.6 billion. With
      the close of the HomEq Acquisition, we boarded onto our
      servicing platform approximately 134,000 residential mortgage
      loans with an aggregate UPB of approximately $22.4 billion.
    

       
    

      We accounted for these transactions using the acquisition
      method of accounting which requires, among other things, that
      the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at
      their fair values as of the acquisition date.
    

       
    




              3
              








               
            




       
    

      OCN also holds a 49% equity interest in Correspondent One
      S.A. (Correspondent One), an entity formed with Altisource
      Portfolio Solutions S.A. (Altisource) in March 2011, a 27%
      interest in Ocwen Structured Investments, LLC (OSI) and an
      approximate 25% interest in Ocwen Nonperforming Loans, LLC
      (ONL) and Ocwen REO, LLC (OREO).
    

       
    

      On December 3, 2009, we finalized and consummated the
      transaction to dispose of our investment in Bankhaus Oswald
      Kruber GmbH & Co. KG (BOK), our wholly owned German
      banking subsidiary that we acquired in 2004. We report the
      operating results of BOK as discontinued operations in our
      consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

      On August 18, 2009, Ocwen completed the public offering of
      32,200,000 shares of common stock at a per share price of
      $9.00 and received net proceeds of $275 million. Earlier in
      that year Ocwen sold 5,471,500 shares of its common stock for
      a price of $11.00 per share and realized $60.2 million in net
      proceeds in a private placement transaction that closed on
      April 3, 2009. We used a portion of the proceeds received
      from the private placement transaction to acquire 1,000,000
      shares from William C. Erbey, Chairman of the Board and then
      Chief Executive Officer at a price of $11.00 per share.
    

       
    

      On August 10, 2009, Ocwen completed the distribution of its
      Ocwen Solutions (OS) line of business (the Separation) via
      the spin-off of a separate publicly traded company,
      Altisource. Altisource common stock is listed on the NASDAQ
      market under the ticker symbol “ASPS.” As a
      separate, publicly traded company, Altisource files an annual
      report on Form 10-K with the SEC. All of the shares of
      Altisource common stock were distributed to OCN’s
      shareholders of record as of August 4, 2009. OS consisted of
      the former unsecured collections business, residential
      fee-based loan processing businesses and technology platforms
      as well as the international commercial loan servicing
      business conducted through Global Servicing Solutions, LLC
      (GSS) and the equity investment in BMS Holdings, Inc.
      (subsequently changed to BHI Liquidation, Inc.). With the
      exception of interests in GSS and BMS Holdings, Inc., which
      have no remaining book value, Ocwen distributed the assets,
      liabilities and operations of OS in the Separation. The
      Separation has allowed Ocwen to focus on its core servicing
      business and to respond better to initiatives and market
      challenges.
    

       
    

      CORPORATE STRATEGY AND OUTLOOK
    

       
    

      Overview
    

       
    

      Ocwen is a leader in the servicing industry in increasing
      cash flows and improving loan values for mortgage loan
      investors and in keeping Americans in their homes through
      foreclosure prevention. Our leadership in the industry is
      evidenced by our high cure rate for delinquent loans and the
      above average rate of continuing performance by borrowers
      whose loans we modify. Ocwen has completed over 200,000 loan
      modifications since January 2008.
    

       
    

      Our competitive strengths are:
    

 




             
          

            ·
          

Lowest Cost Structure. We believe that OLS has
            the lowest operating cost to service non-performing
            loans in the industry due largely to our use of robust
            technology and quality global labor resources. Based on
            average industry cost information provided by a third
            party valuation consultant on May 31, 2011, OLS’s
            net cost to service a non-performing loan was 70% lower
            than the average net cost of similarly-situated
            servicers.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

Scalable Servicing Platform. We believe that OLS
            has the most scalable platform in the industry
            primarily as a result of our superior technology.
            Recent examples of our ability to scale up our platform
            in connection with acquisitions and other growth
            opportunities are described below in “Strategic
            Priorities”.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

Superior Loss Mitigation and Cash Management. We
            believe that OLS provides the highest quality servicing
            of high-risk loans based on internal benchmarking
            versus the industry and numerous third-party studies:
          



       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Moody’s Investor Services (October 2011) –
            Ocwen cured more loans than other subprime servicers
            and generated more cash-flow comparing the percentage
            of loans in static pools that started more than 90-days
            past due or in foreclosure and a year later became
            current, paid-off in full or were 60-days or less past
            due. Loans in bankruptcy at the beginning or end of the
            period were excluded from the Moody’s analysis.
            The same study also showed that Ocwen moved subprime
            loans through foreclosure faster than other subprime
            servicers.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            U.S. Department of the Treasury (May 2011) –
            Ocwen is above industry average in converting trial
            modifications to permanent modifications under the
            federal Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP).
          



             
          

            ·
          

            In 2010 and 2011, over 64% of industry-wide delinquent
            loan resolutions were through modifications. Overall,
            Ocwen has maintained pre-foreclosure resolution rates
            well-above 75%, despite having a largely subprime
            servicing portfolio.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            J.P. Morgan (June 2010) – Ocwen was ranked first
            in Quality Rank, which considers the re-default rate
            for loans modified.
          



       
    




              4
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Deutsche Bank (May 2010) – Ocwen was ranked first
            in “Recovery Score,” which evaluates loss
            severity.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Freddie Mac (August 2009) – Ocwen entered into an
            “Interim Servicing Agreement” to service
            24,000 nonperforming loans.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Moody’s Investor Services (August 2009) –
            Ocwen cures more delinquent loans than Moody’s
            “Strong Rated Servicers.”
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Freddie Mac (February 2009) – Ocwen was selected
            as a “Specialty Servicer” for Freddie
            Mac’s “New Workout Plan for High Risk
            Loans.”
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Bank of America/Merrill Lynch (July 2009) – Ocwen
            leads the industry in making 90+ day delinquent
            subprime loans current. Ocwen’s results were more
            than double the midpoint for all servicers reported.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Credit Suisse (2008) – Ocwen had the highest
            payment rate of all servicers on 90+ delinquent loans
            for 2006 vintage subprime loans. Ocwen’s payment
            rate was more than double the midpoint of all servicers
            reported.
          



       
    



             
          

            ·
          

Substantial Cash Flow. Our servicing business
            has generated substantial cash flow. Healthy margins
            are augmented by the add-back of non-cash amortization
            expense and by reducing delinquencies and the
            associated advances which allows Ocwen to recover the
            haircut on advance financing and reduce asset
            intensity.
          



       
    

      We believe that we achieve these results largely because of
      our superior technology and processes. Our servicing platform
      runs on an information technology system developed over a
      period of more than 20 years at a cost of more than $150
      million. We license this technology under long-term
      agreements with Altisource, the company that we created by
      the spin-off of our OS line of business. We believe that this
      system is highly robust, retaining more data than the systems
      used by most other mortgage servicers. The system integrates
      non-linear loss mitigation models that optimize client cash
      flow by maximizing loan modifications and other borrower
      resolutions while minimizing both re-defaults on
      modifications and foreclosures. The technology also
      integrates into the borrower communication process artificial
      intelligence, driven by behavioral and psychological
      principles, that enhances our ability to provide dynamic
      solutions to borrowers. By using these capabilities to tailor
      “what we say” and “how we say it” to
      each individual borrower, we create a “market of
      one” that is focused on the unique needs of each
      borrower. As a result, we are able to increase borrower
      acceptance rates of loan modifications and other resolution
      alternatives while increasing compliance at the same time.
      These tools are continuously improved via feedback loops from
      controlled testing and monitoring of alternative solutions.
      Currently, Altisource employs over 300 software developers,
      modelers and psychology professionals who focus on process
      improvement, borrower behavior, automation of manual
      processes and improvement of resolution models.
    

       
    

      Strategic Priorities
    

       
    

      The long-term success of any mortgage servicer is driven
      primarily by four critical factors:
    

       
    



             
          

            1.
          

            Access to new servicing business;
          



             
          

            2.
          

            Cost of servicing;
          



             
          

            3.
          

            Ability to manage delinquencies and advances; and
          



             
          

            4.
          

            Cost and amount of capital.
          



       
    

      Ocwen is an established industry leader in cost of servicing
      and ability to manage delinquencies and advances. While we
      continue to pursue improvements in these areas, our plan for
      2011 was more heavily focused on access to new servicing
      business and reducing our cost of capital relative to our
      peers, both banks and non-banks.
    

       
    

      For accessing new servicing business, we have a four-pronged
      strategy:
    

       
    



             
          

            1.
          

            Acquisition of existing servicing platforms;
          



             
          

            2.
          

            Subservicing and special servicing opportunities (both
            residential and commercial);
          



             
          

            3.
          

            Flow servicing; and
          



             
          

            4.
          

            New servicing segments.
          



       
    

      As a result of the Litton Acquisition, which closed on
      September 1, 2011, Ocwen’s servicing UPB grew by
      approximately $38.6 billion making it the 12th
      largest mortgage loan servicer in the U. S. In addition, we
      expect to complete the acquisition of SCI Services, Inc.
      (SCI) and its affiliates (the Saxon Acquisition) in March
      2012. The MSRs acquired as part of this transaction reflect a
      servicing portfolio of approximately $26.8 billion in UPB as
      of June 30, 2011, of which we subserviced $10.8 billion. We
      are also under contract to purchase certain MSRs from
      JPMorgan Chase, N.A. MSRs for approximately 82,000 non-prime
      loans with a UPB of approximately $15 billion (the JPMCB MSR
      Acquisition) as of September 30, 2011. This transaction is
      expected to close in early April 2012, subject to
      satisfaction of the closing conditions, although we cannot
      assure you that the closing will occur on that date.
    

       
    




              5
              








               
            






       
    

      We expect that other non-prime servicing platforms and
      servicing portfolios will come to market in the next several
      months, and to the extent that we find these opportunities to
      be attractive, we believe that we can compete effectively for
      these opportunities, although we will not necessarily be the
      winning bidder in all cases. With our highly automated
      platform, we believe that we can quickly scale our servicing
      capabilities to handle acquired loan portfolios with only
      modest additions to infrastructure. We generally underwrite
      our bids to purchase MSRs at a 25% to 30% rate of return on
      invested capital, which we define to include corporate debt
      and equity.
    

       
    

      We expect to continue to pursue subservicing and special
      servicing transactions. The recently announced Federal-State
      servicing agreement with the five largest mortgage servicers
      (as further discussed in “Risk Factors – Risks
      Relating to Government Regulation”) may result in
      business opportunities for Ocwen as large servicers seek to
      meet their principal reduction modification commitments.
    

       
    

      On flow servicing, we worked with Altisource and its Lenders
      One business (which generated approximately 8% of new loans
      originated in the United States in 2011) to create a new
      entity, Correspondent One, to securitize newly originated
      loans. Ocwen and Altisource each hold a 49% equity interest
      in this new entity. We believe that this venture can improve
      the economics for the members of Lenders One and allow Ocwen
      to compete for servicing rights for newly originated Federal
      Housing Administration (FHA) loans.
    

       
    

      We also plan on evaluating and developing capabilities to
      service new segments of the servicing industry such as
      reverse mortgages and home equity lines of credit. In
      addition, we now deploy a full on-shore servicing alternative
      for entities that have that requirement.
    

       
    

      Results of our growth initiatives include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            On November 4, 2011, we entered into a servicing rights
            purchase agreement to acquire certain MSRs from
            JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The JPMCB MSR Acquisition
            relates to MSRs for approximately 82,000 non-prime
            loans with a UPB of approximately $15 billion as of
            September 30, 2011. The purchase price inclusive of
            servicing advance receivables is expected to be $950
            million to be paid in cash at closing. Ocwen is
            financing $625 million of the purchase price through an
            existing servicing advance facility.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            On November 2, 2011, we amended our Interim Servicing
            Agreement with Freddie Mac to provide that for two
            years following the effective date, Freddie Mac, with
            certain conditions, may transfer the servicing of loans
            to us with a minimum of 60 days notice. If the number
            of delinquent loans exceeds 75,000, Freddie Mac must
            provide at least 90 days notice. We are required to
            accept the transfer of up to 300,000 loans as long as
            the number of delinquent loans does not exceed 75,000.
            The amendment calls for the semiannual payment by
            Freddie Mac of a fee of $50,000 to OLS in exchange for
            its commitment to accept the interim servicing for
            portfolios from Freddie Mac.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            On October 19, 2011, we entered into a Purchase
            Agreement to acquire (i) the issued and outstanding
            stock of SCI from a subsidiary of Morgan Stanley and
            (ii) certain MSRs from Morgan Stanley and its
            affiliates. The Saxon Acquisition will result in the
            acquisition of a servicing portfolio of approximately
            $26.8 billion in UPB of primarily non-prime residential
            mortgage loans as of June 30, 2011 – of which
            Ocwen subserviced approximately $10.8 billion –
            and also includes the acquisition of approximately
            $12.9 billion of UPB that Saxon or its subsidiaries
            subservice for Morgan Stanley and others. The base
            purchase price for the Saxon Transaction is $59.3
            million. In addition, Ocwen will pay approximately
            $292.2 million for the portion of the approximately
            $1.4 billion of Saxon servicing advance receivables
            that will not be financed by third parties.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            On September 1, 2011, we acquired Litton Loan Servicing
            LP, a provider of servicing and subservicing of
            primarily non-prime residential mortgage loans, from
            The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The purchase resulted in
            the acquisition of a servicing portfolio of
            approximately $38.6 billion in UPB.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            On April 15, 2011, we entered into an agreement to
            subservice approximately 13,000 non-agency mortgage
            loans with a UPB of approximately $2.9 billion. The
            boarding dates were May 2, 2011 and May 16, 2011. This
            agreement provides for reimbursement of servicing
            advances.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            On May 28, 2010, we entered into an Asset Purchase
            Agreement pursuant to which OLS agreed to acquire the
            U.S. non-prime mortgage servicing business of Barclays
            Bank PLC known as “HomEq Servicing.” The
            HomEq Acquisition closed on September 1, 2010, and we
            boarded approximately 134,000 residential loans with an
            aggregate UPB of approximately $22.4 billion onto
            Ocwen’s platform.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            On March 29, 2010, we entered into a Servicing Rights
            Purchase and Sale Agreement under which we agreed to
            purchase from Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc. the rights
            to service approximately 38,000 mortgage loans with an
            aggregate UPB of approximately $6.9 billion (the Saxon
            MSR Acquisition). This acquisition was completed on May
            3, 2010.
          



       
    




              6
              








               
            




       
    

      In 2012, we expect to continue to roll out new initiatives
      designed to reduce our cost of servicing, to improve our
      ability to manage delinquencies and advances and to meet
      evolving servicing practices and regulatory requirements.
      These initiatives are expected to lead to improved borrower
      customer service levels, increased loan modifications and
      reduced re-defaults on loan modifications. In most states, we
      have already rolled out our “Shared Appreciation
      Modification” which incorporates principal reductions
      and lower payments for borrowers while still providing some
      ability for investors to recoup losses if property values
      increase over time. We also rolled out our “Appointment
      Model” approach for communicating with our delinquent
      borrowers which allows borrowers to schedule a time to review
      their files with a resolution specialist. By allowing both
      the borrower and the resolution specialist to prepare for
      discussions in advance, we believe that the Appointment Model
      approach is the best way to improve service and provide
      borrowers with the choice of a single point of contact.
    

       
    

      We are also pursuing another strategic opportunity that over
      time could significantly reduce the amount of capital that we
      require through our anticipated relationship with a newly
      formed entity called Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd.
      (HLSS). Initially formed by Ocwen’s Chairman, William
      C. Erbey, HLSS intends to acquire and hold MSRs and related
      servicing advances in a more efficient manner than is
      currently feasible for entities like Ocwen.
    

       
    

      HLSS and Ocwen have intended to enter into an agreement
      pursuant to which HLSS would purchase a substantial portion
      of the MSRs and related servicing advances (the HLSS
      Transaction) that Ocwen acquired in connection with the HomEq
      Acquisition. HLSS would also assume the related match funded
      liabilities under the HomEq Servicing advance facility.
    

       
    

      As part of the HLSS Transaction Ocwen has planned initially
      to sell to HLSS the right to receive the servicing fees,
      excluding ancillary income, relating to the MSRs (Rights to
      MSRs). Ocwen would retain legal ownership of the MSRs and
      would continue to service the related mortgage loans for a
      reduced fee because HLSS will assume the obligation to make
      and finance servicing advances related to the MSRs. Ocwen
      would be obligated to transfer legal ownership of the MSRs to
      HLSS if and when the required third party consents were
      obtained, and at such time, Ocwen would commence subservicing
      the MSRs for a fee pursuant to a subservicing agreement with
      HLSS. HLSS has intended to finance the HLSS Transaction
      through proceeds from an initial public offering of its
      ordinary shares.
    

       
    

      All transactions and agreements between Ocwen and HLSS would
      be subject to review under Ocwen’s related party
      transaction policy, including a review by the Board and
      independent directors.
    

       
    

      In the future, HLSS may acquire additional MSRs or rights
      similar to the Rights to MSRs from Ocwen and enter into
      related subservicing arrangements with Ocwen. HLSS may also
      acquire MSRs from third parties. If HLSS chooses to engage
      Ocwen as a subservicer on these acquisitions, the effect
      could be to increase the benefit of this strategy to Ocwen by
      boosting the size of its subservicing portfolio with little
      or no capital requirement on the part of Ocwen. If HLSS is
      successful in acquiring all or most of Ocwen’s
      portfolio of MSRs, Ocwen could evolve over time into a
      “capital-light” fee-for-service business. Ocwen
      cannot provide assurance that it will consummate the sale of
      MSRs or Rights to MSRs to HLSS, or that HLSS will continue to
      engage Ocwen as subservicer. Any Rights to MSRs to be
      acquired in the HLSS Transaction and in any subsequent
      acquisitions will be subject to customary closing conditions.
    

       
    

      Through December 31, 2011, there had been no transactions
      between Ocwen and HLSS, and there had been no formal
      agreements executed between Ocwen and HLSS as negotiations on
      the economic terms of the agreements had not yet been
      finalized. However, Ocwen had paid fees of $1.5 million on
      behalf of HLSS for organizational costs and costs associated
      with HLSS’ planned initial public offering. Ocwen may
      make additional payments on behalf of HLSS until the initial
      public offering is completed at which time Ocwen expects to
      be reimbursed by HLSS.
    

       
    

      On February 10, 2012, OLS entered into an agreement for the
      initial sale of Rights to MSRs to HLSS Holdings, LLC (HLSS
      Holdings), a wholly owned subsidiary of HLSS, related to
      serviced loans with a UPB of approximately $16 billion and
      the assumption by HLSS Holdings of the related match funded
      liabilities. OLS also entered into a subservicing agreement
      with HLSS Holdings on February 10, 2012 under which it will
      subservice the MSRs after legal ownership of the MSRs has
      been transferred to HLSS Holdings.
    

       
    

      The HLSS Transaction will not close until HLSS completes an
      initial public offering of its ordinary shares and other
      closing conditions are satisfied.
    

       
    

      The anticipated effects on Ocwen of the HLSS Transaction are
      as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Upon the sale of assets to HLSS Holdings, management
            believes that Ocwen’s liquidity and cash flows
            will improve as the sale will result in cash proceeds
            to Ocwen of approximately $181 million, 25% of which
            will be used to reduce the balance on Ocwen’s
            senior secured term loan that it entered into on
            September 1, 2011 as required under the terms of the
            related loan agreement. The remainder will be used for
            general corporate purposes.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            There will be a decrease in Ocwen’s match funded
            liabilities, as HLSS Holdings will assume a servicing
            advance financing facility from Ocwen. However, Ocwen
            has hedged against the effects of changes in interest
            rates on interest payments made under this facility.
            Upon assumption of the related debt by HLSS Holdings,
            Ocwen will be required to recognize in earnings the
            hedge losses that have accumulated in other
            comprehensive income. At December 31, 2011, these
            deferred unrealized losses totaled $5,747.
          



       
    




              7
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            As described above, Ocwen will initially sell Rights to
            MSRs to HLSS Holdings. While the sale of the Rights to
            MSRs to HLSS Holdings will achieve an economic result
            for Ocwen substantially identical to a sale of the
            MSRs, the transaction is expected to be accounted for
            as a financing until the required third party consents
            are obtained and legal ownership of the MSRs transfers
            to HLSS Holdings.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Net income is expected to decline somewhat before
            considering any income that could be generated from
            reinvesting the net proceeds from the sale. Interest
            expense on the advance facility transferring to HLSS
            Holdings will be assumed by HLSS Holdings but the
            interest expense to be recognized on the portion of the
            sales proceeds accounted for as a financing of the MSRs
            will be greater.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Ocwen will have lower capital requirements since HLSS
            Holdings will be acquiring the servicer advances
            related to the MSRs and assuming the responsibility for
            making servicer advances in the future.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Ocwen expects that the reduction in the equity required
            to run its servicing business will be relatively
            greater than the reduction in net income, thus
            improving the return on equity of its servicing
            business.
          



       
    

      OPERATING SEGMENTS
    

       
    

      Effective January 1, 2011, with the growth in our Servicing
      segment and continuing reductions in the Loans and Residuals
      and the Asset Management Vehicles (AMV) segments, we changed
      our internal management reporting to focus on the Servicing
      segment and to include the results for Loans and Residuals
      and AMVs in Corporate Items and Other. We are allowing the
      assets of the existing asset management vehicles to run off.
      The Servicing segment, which comprised nearly 100% of total
      revenues in 2010 and 2011, represents our sole reported
      business segment following the change in our reporting
      structure. Segment results for prior years have been restated
      to conform to the current segment structure.
    

       
    

      Prior to August 10, 2009, our operations included the OS line
      of business. OS consisted primarily of the residential
      fee-based loan processing businesses, unsecured collections
      business and technology platforms which were conducted
      through the former Mortgage Services, Financial Services and
      Technology Products segments.
    

       
    

      See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Segment
      Results and Financial Condition” and Note 27 to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements for additional financial
      information regarding each of our segments.
    

       
    

      Segment Results and Assets as of and for the years ended
      December 31 (dollars in thousands):
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          



            Segment
          

             
          

            $
          

             
          

             
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

             
          

             
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

             
          

             
          

            %
          

             
          



            External Revenue
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            493,701
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            99.6
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            358,441
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            99.5
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            271,561
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            71.3
          

            %
          



            Mortgage Services
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            54,052
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            14.2
          

             
          



            Financial Services
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            40,293
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10.6
          

             
          



            Technology Products
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,375
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3.2
          

             
          



            Corporate Items and Other
          

             
          

             
          

            2,229
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.4
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,940
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.5
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,447
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.7
          

             
          



            Consolidated
          

             
          

            $
          

            495,930
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            360,381
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            380,728
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations before Income
            Taxes
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            135,880
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            110.5
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,195
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            199.7
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            87,681
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            94.0
          

            %
          



            Mortgage Services
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            17,815
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            19.1
          

             
          



            Financial Services
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,969
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (6.4
          

            )
          



            Technology Products
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,590
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10.3
          

             
          



            Corporate Items and Other
          

             
          

             
          

            (12,885
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (10.5
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (39,041
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (99.7
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (15,856
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (17.0
          

            )
          



            Consolidated
          

             
          

            $
          

            122,995
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            39,154
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            93,261
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Total Assets
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,310,354
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            91.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,495,966
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            85.4
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,191,212
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67.3
          

            %
          



            Corporate Items and Other
          

             
          

             
          

            426,803
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9.0
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            425,443
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            14.6
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            578,138
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32.7
          

             
          



            Consolidated
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,737,157
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,921,409
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,769,350
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100.0
          

            %
          



       
    




              8
              








               
            




       
    

      See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations—Segments” and Note 27 to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements for additional financial
      information regarding each of our segments.
    

       
    

      Servicing
    

       
    

      We earn fees for providing services to owners of mortgage
      loans and foreclosed real estate. In most cases, we provide
      these services either because we purchased the MSRs from the
      owner of the mortgage or because we entered into a
      subservicing or special servicing agreement with the entity
      that owns the MSRs.
    

       
    

      We are one of the largest third-party servicers of subprime
      residential mortgage loans in the U.S. As of December 31,
      2011, we serviced 671,623 loans and real estate properties
      with an aggregate UPB of $102.2 billion under 1,287 servicing
      agreements for over 50 clients. These clients include
      institutions such as Freddie Mac, Morgan Stanley, Deutsche
      Bank, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs. The mortgaged
      properties securing the loans that we service are
      geographically dispersed throughout all 50 states, the
      District of Columbia and two U.S. territories. The five
      largest concentrations of properties are located in
      California, Florida, New York, Texas and Illinois which,
      taken together, comprise 41% of the loans serviced at
      December 31, 2011. California has the largest concentration
      with 74,944 loans or 11% of the total. Subprime mortgage loan
      servicing involves special loss mitigation challenges that
      are not present to the same extent in prime loan servicing.
      Over a period of twenty years, we have developed proprietary
      best practices for reducing loan losses, and we continue to
      refine and enhance these practices to meet the challenges
      posed by the current market. Our proactive measures encourage
      borrowers who become delinquent to begin paying again on
      their loans and avoid foreclosure. In the current
      environment, loan modifications often provide a better
      outcome for loan investors than do foreclosures or
      forbearance plans. Servicers generally earn more profit as
      their portfolios become more current. We pride ourselves on
      keeping more borrowers in their homes than other servicers
      and avoiding foreclosure. This is a “win-win”
      situation for both the investors and the borrowers that we
      serve.
    

       
    

      Our largest source of revenue is servicing fees. Purchased
      MSRs generally entitle us to an annual fee of up to 50 basis
      points of the average UPB of the loans serviced. Under
      subservicing arrangements, where we do not pay for the MSR,
      we are generally entitled to an annual fee of between 6 and
      38 basis points of the average UPB. Although servicing fees
      generally accrue to the servicer when a loan is delinquent,
      servicing fees are usually only collected when a borrower
      makes a payment or when a delinquent loan is resolved through
      modification, payoff (discounted or in full) or through the
      sale of the underlying mortgaged property following
      foreclosure (Real Estate Owned, or REO). Because we only
      record servicing fee revenue when it is collected, our
      revenue is a function of UPB, the number of payments that we
      receive and delinquent loans that resolve either through
      borrower payments, modifications (HAMP and non-HAMP) or sales
      of REO.
    

       
    

      Servicing fees, which comprise 74% of total Servicing and
      subservicing fees in 2011, are supplemented by ancillary
      income, including:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            fees from the federal government for HAMP (from
            completing new HAMP modifications and from the
            continued success of prior HAMP modifications on the
            anniversary date of the HAMP trial modification);
          



             
          

            ·
          

            interest earned on loan payments that we have collected
            but have not yet remitted to the owner of the mortgage
            (float earnings);
          



             
          

            ·
          

            referral commissions from brokers for REO properties
            sold through our network of brokers;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Speedpay® fees from borrowers who pay
            by telephone or through the Internet; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            late fees from borrowers who were delinquent in
            remitting their monthly mortgage payments but have
            subsequently become current.
          



       
    

      See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
      additional information on the composition of our Servicing
      and subservicing fees.
    

       
    

Loan Resolution (Modification and REO
      Sales).The importance of loan resolution to our
      financial performance is heightened by our revenue
      recognition policies. We do not recognize delinquent
      servicing fees or late fees as revenue until we collect cash
      on the related loan. The following loan modification
      scenarios illustrate the typical timing of our revenue
      recognition. The amounts used are presented in dollars and
      are for illustrative purposes only:
    

       
    



             
          

            1.
          

            When a loan becomes current via our non-HAMP
            modification process, we earn $500 of deferred
            servicing fees and $300 of late fees. (Note: If any
            debt is forgiven as part of a non-HAMP modification, no
            late fees are collected or earned.)
          



             
          

            2.
          

            When a loan becomes current via our HAMP modification
            process, we earn $500 on deferred servicing fees, and
            we earn initial HAMP fees of $1,000, or $1,500 if the
            loan was in imminent risk of default. However, we
            forfeit $300 of late fees. If the loan is in imminent
            risk of default but not delinquent, we recognize no
            deferred servicing fees.
          



             
          

            3.
          

            When a loan is modified under HAMP and remains less
            than 90 days delinquent, we earn, at the first, second
            and third anniversary of the start of the trial
            modification, up to a $1,000 HAMP success fee. In 2011,
            HAMP success fees exceeded initial HAMP fees.
          



       
    




              9
              








               
            




       
    

      Loan resolution activities address the pipeline of delinquent
      loans and generally lead to modification of the loan terms, a
      discounted payoff of the loan or foreclosure and sale of the
      resulting REO. The following process describes our resolution
      pipeline:
    

       
    



             
          

            1.
          

            The loan and borrower are evaluated for HAMP
            eligibility. If HAMP criteria are met, HAMP
            documentation and trial offer phases proceed. The three
            most common reasons for failure to qualify for HAMP
            are:
          



       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            existing loan terms that are already below a 31% debt
            to income (DTI) ratio;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            inadequate documentation; or
          



             
          

            ·
          

            inadequate or inconsistent income.
          



       
    



             
          

            2.
          

            If the criteria to qualify for HAMP are not met, the
            loan and borrower are evaluated utilizing non-HAMP
            criteria that are more flexible and focus both on the
            borrower’s ability to pay and on maximizing net
            present value for investors. If the criteria are met,
            non-HAMP documentation and trial modification and/or
            modification phases proceed.
          



             
          

            3.
          

            If the loan and borrower qualify for neither a HAMP nor
            a non-HAMP modification, liquidation of the loan then
            proceeds via either a discounted payoff (or
            “short sale”), deed-in-lieu-of-foreclosure
            or foreclosure and REO sale.
          



       
    

      The majority of loans that we modify are delinquent, although
      we do modify some performing loans proactively under the
      American Securitization Forum guidelines. The most common
      term modified is the interest rate. Some modifications also
      involve the forgiveness or forbearance (i.e., rescheduling)
      of delinquent principal and interest. To select the best
      resolution option for a delinquent loan, we perform a
      structured analysis of all options using information provided
      by the borrower as well as external data. We use recent
      broker price opinions to value the property. We then use a
      proprietary model to determine the option with the highest
      net present value for the loan investor including an
      assessment of re-default risk. Loan modifications are
      designed to achieve, and generally result in, the highest net
      present value, but not in all cases.
    

       
    

      Inquiries into servicer foreclosure practices by state or
      federal government bodies, regulators or courts are
      continuing and bring the possibility of action that could
      have an adverse effect on the average foreclosure timeline
      delaying recovery of deferred servicing fees and advances.
      Through 2010, the average number of days to complete a
      foreclosure action extended by 53 days in judicial
      foreclosure states and 43 days in traditional non-judicial
      foreclosure states as compared to 2009. In 2011, foreclosure
      timelines increased by an additional 133 days in judicial
      foreclosure states and 32 days in traditional non-judicial
      foreclosure states as compared to 2010 averages. The 90+
      non-performing delinquency rate on the Ocwen portfolio as a
      percentage of UPB has increased from 27.3% at December 31,
      2010 to 27.9% at December 31, 2011 as a result of higher
      delinquencies in the Litton portfolio at boarding. Excluding
      the Litton portfolio, the 90+ non-performing delinquency rate
      as a percentage of UPB would have declined to 23.4% at
      December 31, 2011. This improvement occurred as fewer loans
      entered delinquency and because of improved loss mitigation.
      It is not possible to predict the full financial impact of
      changes in foreclosure practices, but if the extension of
      timelines causes delinquency rates to rise, this could lead
      to a delay in revenue recognition and collections, an
      increase in operating expenses and an increase in the advance
      ratio. An increase in the advance ratio would lead to
      increased borrowings, reduced cash and higher interest
      expense.
    

       
    

Advance Obligation. As a servicer or subservicer, we
      have a variety of contractual obligations including the
      obligation to service the mortgages according to certain
      standards and to advance funds to securitization trusts in
      the event that borrowers are delinquent on their monthly
      mortgage payments. When a borrower becomes delinquent, we
      “advance” cash to the Real Estate Mortgage
      Investment Conduit (REMIC) Trustees on the scheduled
      remittance date thus creating a receivable from the REMIC
      Trust that is secured by the future cash flows from the REMIC
      Trust. We advance principal and interest (P&I Advances),
      taxes and insurance (T&I Advances) and legal fees,
      property valuation fees, property inspection fees,
      maintenance costs and preservation costs on properties that
      have already been foreclosed (Corporate Advances). If we
      determine that our P&I Advances cannot be recovered from
      the projected proceeds, we generally have the right to cease
      making P&I advances, declare advances in excess of net
      proceeds to be non-recoverable and, in most cases,
      immediately recover any excess advances from the general
      collections accounts of the respective REMIC Trust. With
      T&I Advances and Corporate Advances, we continue to
      advance if net proceeds exceed projected future advances
      without regard to advances already made. Most of our advances
      have the highest reimbursement priority (i.e., “top of
      the waterfall”) so that we are entitled to repayment
      from respective loan or REO liquidation proceeds before any
      interest or principal is paid on the bonds. In the majority
      of cases, advances in excess of respective loan or REO
      liquidation proceeds may be recovered from pool-level
      proceeds. The costs incurred in meeting these obligations
      consist principally of, but are not limited to, the interest
      expense incurred in financing the servicing advances. Most,
      but not all, subservicing contracts provide for more rapid
      reimbursement of any advances from the owner of the servicing
      rights.
    

       
    




              10
              








               
            






       
    

Significant Variables. The key variables that
      significantly affect operating results in the Servicing
      segment are aggregate UPB, delinquencies and prepayment
      speed.
    

       
    

Aggregate Unpaid Principal Balance. Aggregate UPB is a
      key revenue driver. As noted earlier, servicing fees are
      expressed as a percentage of UPB, and growth in the portfolio
      generally means growth in servicing fees. Additionally, a
      larger servicing portfolio generates increased ancillary fees
      and leads to larger custodial balances generating greater
      float income. In general, a larger servicing portfolio also
      increases expenses but at a less rapid pace than the growth
      in UPB. To the extent that we grow UPB through the purchase
      of MSRs, our amortization of MSRs will typically increase
      with the growth in the carrying value of our MSRs. We will
      also incur additional interest expense to finance servicing
      advances, and the portfolios we acquire have had a higher
      ratio of advances to UPB than our existing portfolio.
    

       
    

Delinquencies. Delinquencies have a significant impact
      on our results of operations and cash flows. Delinquencies
      impact the timing of revenue recognition because we recognize
      servicing fees as earned which is generally upon collection.
      Delinquencies also impact float balances and float earnings.
      Non-performing loans are more expensive to service than
      performing loans because, as discussed below, the cost of
      servicing is higher and, although collectibility is generally
      not a concern, advances to the investors increase which
      results in higher financing costs. Performing loans include
      those loans that are current and those loans for which
      borrowers are making scheduled payments under loan
      modifications, forbearance plans or bankruptcy plans. Loans
      in modification trial plans are considered forbearance plans
      until the trial is successfully completed or until the
      borrower misses a trial plan payment. We consider all other
      loans to be non-performing.
    

       
    

      When borrowers are delinquent, the amount of funds that we
      are required to advance to the investors on behalf of the
      borrowers increases. We incur significant costs to finance
      those advances. We utilize both securitization (i.e., match
      funded liabilities) and revolving credit facilities to
      finance our advances. As a result, increased delinquencies
      result in increased interest expense.
    

       
    

      The cost of servicing non-performing loans is higher than the
      cost of servicing performing loans primarily because the loss
      mitigation techniques that we employ to keep borrowers in
      their homes and to foreclose are more costly than the
      techniques used in handling a performing loan. Procedures
      involve increased contact with the borrower for collection
      and the development of forbearance plans or loan
      modifications by highly skilled consultants who command
      higher compensation. This increase in operating expenses is
      somewhat offset by increased late fees for loans that become
      delinquent but do not enter the foreclosure process. In
      comparison, when loans are performing we have fewer
      interactions with the borrowers, and lower-cost customer
      service personnel conduct most of those interactions unless
      the loan is deemed to be at risk of defaulting.
    

       
    

Prepayment Speed. The rate at which the UPB for a pool
      or pools of loans declines has a significant impact on our
      business. Items reducing UPB include normal principal
      payments, refinancing, loan modifications involving
      forgiveness of principal, voluntary property sales and
      involuntary property sales such as foreclosures. Prepayment
      speed impacts future servicing fees, amortization and
      valuation of MSRs, float income on float balances, interest
      expense on advances and compensating interest expense. If we
      expect prepayment speed to increase, amortization expense
      will increase because MSRs are amortized in proportion to
      total expected servicing income over the life of a portfolio.
      The converse is true when expectations for prepayment speed
      decrease.
    

       
    



Third-Party Servicer Ratings.  The U.S.
      Department of Housing and Urban Development, Freddie Mac,
      Fannie Mae and Ginnie Mae have approved OLS as a loan
      servicer.  We are also subject to mortgage servicer
      ratings issued and revised from time to time by credit rating
      agencies including Moody’s Investors Services, Inc.
      (Moody’s), Standard & Poor’s Rating Services
      (Standard & Poor’s) and Fitch Ratings
      (Fitch).  Moody’s servicer ratings of OLS are
      “SQ2–” as a Residential Subprime Servicer
      and “SQ2” as a Residential Special
      Servicer.  “SQ2” represents Moody’s
      second highest rating category.   Until recently,
      Standard & Poor’s had rated OLS
      “Strong” as a Residential Special Servicer,
      Standard & Poor’s highest ratings category. 
      However, on October 19, 2011, Standard & Poor’s
      downgraded OLS’ Residential Subprime Servicer rating
      from “Strong” to “Above
      Average,” reflecting Standard & Poor’s
      stated concerns at that time about our ability to integrate
      the HomEq and Litton platforms.  On December 20, 2011,
      Fitch downgraded its rating of OLS for Residential Subprime
      Servicing to “RPS3” and its rating for
      Residential Special Servicing to “RSS3.” 
      Previously, Fitch had rated OLS “RPS2” and
      “RSS2”, its second highest categories. 
      Fitch stated its rating actions were based on concerns over
      our off-shore staffing approach and overall growth strategy,
      which Fitch characterized as “aggressive,” as
      well as the heightened regulatory scrutiny for the industry
      in general.   Servicers rated in Fitch’s
      ‘3’ category demonstrate proficiency in overall
      servicing ability.  Neither Standard & Poor’s
      nor Fitch’s servicer rating downgrades suggested that
      OLS was unacceptable or unable to continue to serve as a
      servicer on any transaction, nor did they raise any actual
      performance issues concerning OLS’ servicing of
      loans.  In February 2012, Ocwen received notices of
      default or possible default from Trustees for 69 servicing
      contracts based on the Fitch downgrade.   Of these
      servicing contracts, which represent approximately 5.4% of
      the total servicing contracts in our portfolio, 56 had been
      transferred to Ocwen as part of the HomEq acquisition.
        We believe there may be nine additional servicing
      contracts as to which we could possibly receive similar
      notices of default or possible default based on the Fitch
      downgrade.  None of the notices of default or possible
      default that we have received indicated any threatened
      termination of OLS as the servicer under the related
      servicing contracts.    See “Risk
      Factors – Risks Relating to Our Business and
      Industry” for a discussion of the adverse effects that
      a downgrade in our servicer ratings could have on our
      business, financing activities, financial condition or
      results of operations. 
    










       
    




              11
              








               
            




       
    

      Corporate Items and Other
    

       
    

      In Corporate Items and Other, we report items of revenue and
      expense that are not directly related to a business, business
      activities that are individually insignificant, interest
      income on short-term investments of cash and certain
      corporate expenses. Our corporate debt, which is comprised of
      the 3.25% Contingent Convertible Senior Unsecured Notes due
      in 2024 (Convertible Notes) and the 10.875% Capital
      Securities due in 2027 (Capital Securities), and our cash are
      also included in Corporate Items and Other.
    

       
    

      Effective with the segment realignment discussed above,
      Corporate Items and Other includes the former Loans and
      Residuals segment and the former AMV segment. The former
      Loans and Residuals segment included our investments in
      subprime residential loans held for resale and subprime
      residual mortgage backed trading securities related to our
      former subprime loan origination operation and whole loan
      purchase and securitization activities. The Loans and
      Residuals segment also included the four loan securitization
      trusts that we began including in our consolidated financial
      statements effective January 1, 2010. The former AMV segment
      was comprised of our 27% equity investment in OSI and
      approximately a 25% equity investment in ONL and OREO. These
      unconsolidated entities are engaged in the management of
      residential assets.
    

       
    

       
    

      Our equity investment in Correspondent One that we acquired
      in 2011 is also included in Corporate Items and Other. Other
      business activities included in Corporate Items and Other
      that are not considered to be of continuing significance
      include our affordable housing investment activities and GSS
      which we began including in Corporate Items and Other on
      August 10, 2009 following the Separation. We report the
      results of operations of BOK as discontinued operations in
      the consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

      SOURCES OF FUNDS
    

       
    

      We meet our near-term liquidity requirements through:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            collections of servicing fees and ancillary revenues;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            proceeds from financings, such as match funded
            liabilities, lines of credit and other secured
            borrowings; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            collections of prior servicer advances in excess of new
            advances.
          



       
    

      In addition to these near-term sources, potential additional
      long-term sources of liquidity include proceeds from the
      issuance of debt securities and equity capital.
    

       
    

      Our primary uses of funds are:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            payments for advances in excess of collections on
            existing servicing portfolios;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            payment of interest and operating costs;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            purchases of MSRS and related advances; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            repayments of borrowings.
          



       
    

      We closely monitor our liquidity position and ongoing funding
      requirements, and we invest available funds primarily in
      money market demand deposits.
    

       
    

      Our ability to sustain and grow our Servicing business
      depends in part on our ability to maintain and expand sources
      of financing to fund servicing advances and to purchase new
      MSRs. We finance most of our advances using variable and
      fixed rate match funded securitization facilities. From time
      to time, we also finance other assets with debt.
    

       
    

      Delinquency rates determine the amount of funds that we, as
      servicer, must advance to meet contractual requirements.
      Meeting the need to advance these funds requires readily
      available borrowing capacity. However, as noted earlier, we
      are generally obligated to advance funds only to the extent
      that we believe that the advances are recoverable from loan
      proceeds.
    

       
    

      See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
      Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity
      and Capital Resources” for additional financial
      information regarding our sources of funds.
    

       
    




              12
              








               
            






       
    

      COMPETITION
    

       
    

      As disclosed in the “Corporate Strategy and
      Outlook” section, our competitive advantages include
      low operating costs relative to the subprime mortgage
      servicing industry, a highly scalable servicing platform
      which allows us to efficiently board acquired portfolios with
      only modest additions to infrastructure and superior subprime
      servicing and loss mitigation practices effective at reducing
      delinquencies and advances. We believe that we achieve our
      competitive position through the use of a technology-enabled
      servicing platform and a global workforce. Our competitors
      include a number of large financial institutions (or their
      subsidiaries). These financial institutions generally have
      significantly greater resources and access to capital than we
      do which gives them the benefit of a lower cost of funds. The
      top four banks service approximately 54% of total loans;
      however, they focus on prime loans, while Ocwen specializes
      in servicing non-prime loans.
    

       
    

      SUBSIDIARIES
    

       
    

      A list of our significant subsidiaries is set forth in
      Exhibit 21.0.
    

       
    

      EMPLOYEES
    

       
    

      As of December 31, 2011, we had 5,063 employees, of which 843
      were employed in our U.S. facilities, 4,141 in our India
      operations centers and 79 in Uruguay. We have had operations
      in India for more than ten years. Our Uruguay operation
      center, located in Montevideo, has been in existence since
      2008.
    

       
    

      In the U.S., the largest portion our employees were in our
      West Palm Beach, Florida facility, which had 301 employees as
      of December 31, 2011. We also had 244 employees in McDonough,
      Georgia, 177 employees in Houston, Texas and 121 employees at
      various other locations in the U.S.
    

       
    

      Of our employees in India as of December 31, 2011, 2,597 were
      in our Bangalore facilities and 1,544 were in our Mumbai
      facilities. Our India-based workforce is deployed as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            93% are in Servicing,
          



             
          

            ·
          

            6% are in support functions, including Human Resources,
            Corporate Services, Accounting, Legal and Risk
            Management and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            1% are in other business segments.
          



       
    

      REGULATION
    

       
    

      Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal,
      state and local governmental authorities including the
      Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Consumer Finance
      Protection Bureau (CFPB), the SEC and various state agencies
      that license, audit and conduct examinations of our mortgage
      servicing and collection activities in a number of states.
      From time to time, we also receive
      requests from federal, state and local agencies for records,
      documents and information relating to our policies,
      procedures and practices regarding our loan servicing and
      debt collection business activities. We incur significant
      ongoing costs to comply with new and existing laws and
      governmental regulation of our business.


       
    

      We must comply with a number of federal, state and local
      consumer protection laws including, among others, the
      Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices
      Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), the
      Truth in Lending Act (TILA), the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
      the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the Homeowners
      Protection Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and, more
      recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
      Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), and state foreclosure laws.
      These statutes apply to debt collection, use of credit
      reports, safeguarding of non−public personally
      identifiable information about our customers, foreclosure and
      claims handling, investment of and interest payments on
      escrow balances and escrow payment features, and mandate
      certain disclosures and notices to borrowers. These
      requirements can and do change as statutes and regulations
      are enacted, promulgated or amended.
    

       
    

      Our failure to comply with applicable federal, state and
      local consumer protection laws can lead to:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            civil and criminal liability;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            loss of our licenses and approvals to engage in the
            servicing of residential mortgage loans;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            damage to our reputation in the industry;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            inability to raise capital;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            administrative fines and penalties and litigation,
            including class action lawsuits; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            governmental investigations and enforcement actions.
          



       
    

      The recent trend among federal, state and local lawmakers and
      regulators has been toward increasing laws, regulations and
      investigative proceedings with regard to the residential real
      estate lenders and servicers. Over the past few years, state
      and federal lawmakers and regulators have adopted a variety
      of new or expanded laws and regulations, including the
      Dodd-Frank Act discussed below. The changes in these
      regulatory and legal requirements, including changes in their
      enforcement, could materially and adversely affect our
      business and our financial condition, liquidity and results
      of operations.
    

       
    




              13
              








               
            




       
    

      On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law by
      President Obama. The Dodd-Frank Act constitutes a sweeping
      reform of the regulation and supervision of financial
      institutions, as well as the regulation of derivatives,
      capital market activities and consumer financial services.
      Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are required to be
      implemented through rulemaking by the appropriate federal
      regulatory agency and will take effect over several years.
      The ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on
      our business will therefore not be fully known for an
      extended period of time.
    

       
    

      The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive and significant legislation
      that, among other things:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            creates an inter-agency body that is responsible for
            monitoring the activities of the financial system and
            recommending a framework for substantially increased
            regulation of large interconnected financial services
            firms;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            creates a liquidation framework for the resolution of
            certain bank holding companies and other large and
            interconnected nonbank financial companies;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            strengthens the regulatory oversight of securities and
            capital markets activities by the SEC; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            creates the CFPB, a new federal entity responsible for
            regulating consumer financial services.
          



       
    

      The CFPB will directly impact the regulation of residential
      mortgage servicing in a number of ways. First, the CFPB will
      have rulemaking authority with respect to many of the federal
      consumer protection laws applicable to mortgage servicers,
      including TILA and RESPA. Second, the CFPB will have
      supervision, examination and enforcement authority over
      consumer financial products and services offered by certain
      non-depository institutions and large insured depository
      institutions. The CFPB’s jurisdiction will include
      those persons originating, brokering or servicing residential
      mortgage loans and those persons performing loan modification
      or foreclosure relief services in connection with such loans.
      We expect that OLS will be subject to supervision,
      examination and enforcement by the CFPB.
    

       
    

      Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act contains the Mortgage Reform
      and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (Mortgage Act). The Mortgage
      Act imposes a number of additional requirements on servicers
      of residential mortgage loans, such as OLS, by amending
      certain existing provisions and adding new sections to TILA
      and RESPA. The penalties for noncompliance with TILA and
      RESPA are also significantly increased by the Mortgage Act
      and could lead to an increase in lawsuits against mortgage
      servicers. Like other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, the
      Mortgage Act generally requires that implementing regulations
      be issued before many of its provisions are effective.
      Therefore, many of these provisions in the Mortgage Act will
      not be effective until 2013 or early 2014.
    

       
    

      When fully implemented, the Mortgage Act will prevent
      servicers of residential mortgage loans from taking certain
      actions, including the following:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            force-placing insurance, unless there is a reasonable
            belief that the borrower has failed to comply with a
            contract’s requirement to maintain insurance;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            charging a fee for responding to a valid qualified
            written request;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            failing to take timely action to respond to the
            borrower’s request to correct errors related to
            payment, payoff amounts, or avoiding foreclosure;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            failing to respond within ten (10) business days of a
            request from the borrower to provide contact
            information about the owner or assignee of loan; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            failing to return an escrow balance or provide a credit
            within twenty (20) business days of a residential
            mortgage loan being paid off by the borrower.
          



       
    

      In addition to these restrictions, the Mortgage Act imposes
      certain new requirements and/or shortens the existing
      response time for servicers of residential mortgage loans.
      These new requirements include the following:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            acknowledging receipt of a qualified written request
            under RESPA within five (5) business days and providing
            a final response within thirty (30) business days;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            promptly crediting mortgage payments received from the
            borrower on the date of receipt except where payment
            does not conform to previously established
            requirements; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            sending an accurate payoff statement within a
            reasonable period of time but in no case more than
            seven (7) business days after receipt of a written
            request from the borrower.
          



       
    

      We expect to continue incurring significant ongoing
      operational and system costs in order to prepare for
      compliance with these new laws and regulations. Furthermore,
      there may be additional federal or states laws enacted that
      place additional obligations on servicers of residential
      mortgage loans.
    

       
    




              14
              








               
            




       
    

      Effective June 30, 2005, we voluntarily terminated our status
      as a federal savings bank. We continued the Bank’s
      non-depository businesses including its residential mortgage
      servicing business under OLS. We entered into various
      agreements to obtain the approval of the Office of Thrift
      Supervision (OTS). We directly or indirectly received
      assignment of all of the assets, liabilities and business
      (the Assignment). We entered into an agreement (the Guaranty)
      in favor of the OTS and any holders of claims with respect to
      the liabilities we assumed in connection with the Assignment.
      The Guaranty contained affirmative covenants relating to the
      maintenance of a cash collateral account, reporting
      requirements, transactions with affiliates, preservation of
      the existence of our subsidiaries and maintenance of minimum
      unencumbered assets. The Guaranty also contained negative
      covenants that restrict our ability to: incur indebtedness;
      enter into merger transactions or a sale of substantially all
      of our assets; sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of
      our assets; or pay dividends or acquire our capital stock.
      The Guaranty provided that it would remain in effect until
      the later of (a) the sixth anniversary of the date on which
      our federal bank charter was cancelled or (b) the date on
      which we have paid in full (i) any obligations that arise out
      of certain assumed liabilities with respect to which a claim
      has been asserted on or prior to the sixth anniversary of the
      date on which our federal bank charter was cancelled and (ii)
      all other amounts payable by us under the Guaranty. The
      Guaranty expired by its terms on February 29, 2012. For
      additional information regarding the Guaranty, see Note 29 to
      the Consolidated Financial Statements.
    

       
    

      There are a number of foreign regulations that are applicable
      to our operations in India including acts that govern
      licensing, employment, safety, taxes, insurance and the basic
      law which governs the creation, continuation and the winding
      up of companies as well as the relationships between the
      shareholders, the company, the public and the government. The
      Central Act is applicable to all of India while various state
      acts may be applicable to certain locations in India.
      Non-compliance with the laws and regulations of India could
      result in fines, penalties or sanctions to our operations. In
      addition, non-compliance could lead to loss of reputation and
      other penalties and prosecution.
    

       
    

      AVAILABLE INFORMATION
    

       
    

      Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
      10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those
      reports are made available free of charge through our website
      (www.ocwen.com) as soon as such material is electronically
      filed with or furnished to the SEC. The public may read or
      copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
      Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
      20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of
      the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
      1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that
      contains reports, proxy and information statements and other
      information regarding issuers, including OCN, that file
      electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is
      www.sec.gov. We have also posted on our website, and have
      available in print upon request, the charters for our Audit
      Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance Committee,
      our Governance Guidelines and our Code of Ethics and Code of
      Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. Within the time period
      required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will
      post on our website any amendment to or waiver of the Code of
      Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, as well as any
      amendment to the Code of Ethics or waiver thereto applicable
      to any executive officer or director. The information
      provided on our website is not part of this report and is
      therefore not incorporated herein by reference.
    

       
    



ITEM 1A.


RISK FACTORS




       
    

      An investment in our common stock involves significant risks
      that are inherent to our business. We describe below the
      principal risks and uncertainties that management believes
      affect or could affect us. The risks and uncertainties
      described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional
      risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or
      focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may
      also impair our business operations. You should carefully
      read and consider the risks and uncertainties described below
      together with all of the other information included or
      incorporated by reference in this report before you decide to
      invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks
      actually occur, our financial condition and results of
      operations could be materially and adversely affected. If
      this were to happen, the value of our common stock could
      significantly decline, and you could lose all or part of your
      investment.
    

       
    

Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry


 


      Continued economic slowdown and/or continued deterioration of
      the housing market could increase delinquencies, defaults,
      foreclosures and advances.
    

       
    

      An increase in delinquencies and foreclosure rates could
      increase both interest expense on advances and operating
      expenses and could cause a reduction in income from, and the
      value of, our servicing portfolio as well as loans and our
      investment in AMVs.
    

       
    




              15
              








               
            




       
    

      During any period in which the borrower is not making
      payments, we are required under most of our servicing
      agreements to advance our own funds to meet contractual
      principal and interest remittance requirements for investors,
      pay property taxes and insurance premiums and process
      foreclosures. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and
      market real estate properties on behalf of investors. Most of
      our advances have the highest standing and are “top of
      the waterfall” so that we are entitled to repayment
      from respective loan or REO liquidations proceeds before any
      interest or principal is paid on the bonds, and in the
      majority of cases, advances in excess of respective loan or
      REO liquidation proceeds may be recovered from pool level
      proceeds.
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

Revenue. An increase in delinquencies may
            delay the timing of revenue recognition because we
            recognize servicing fees as earned which is generally
            upon collection. An increase in delinquencies also
            leads to lower float balances and float earnings.
          



             
          

            ·
          

Expenses. Higher delinquencies increases
            our cost to service loans, as loans in default require
            more intensive effort to bring them current or manage
            the foreclosure process. An increase in advances
            outstanding relative to the change in the size of the
            servicing portfolio can result in substantial strain on
            our financial resources. This occurs because excess
            growth of advances increases financing costs with no
            offsetting increase in revenue, thus reducing
            profitability. If we are unable to fund additional
            advances, we could breach the requirements of our
            servicing contracts. Such developments could result in
            our losing our servicing rights, which would have a
            substantial negative impact on our financial condition
            and results of operations and could trigger
            cross-defaults under our various credit agreements.
          



             
          

            ·
          

Valuation of MSRs. Apart from the risk of
            losing our servicing rights, defaults are involuntary
            prepayments resulting in a reduction in UPB. This may
            result in higher amortization and impairment in the
            value of our MSRs.
          



       
    

      We may be unable to obtain sufficient capital to meet the
      financing requirements of our business, which may prevent us
      from having sufficient funds to conduct our operations or
      meet our obligations on our advance facilities.
    

       
    

      Our financing strategy includes the use of significant
      leverage. Accordingly, our ability to finance our operations
      and repay maturing obligations rests in large part on our
      ability to borrow money. Our ability to borrow money is
      affected by a variety of factors including:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            limitations imposed on us by existing lending and
            similar agreements that contain restrictive covenants
            that may limit our ability to raise additional debt;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            liquidity in the credit markets;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            the strength of the lenders from whom we borrow; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            limitations on borrowing on advance facilities which is
            limited by the amount of eligible collateral pledged
            and may be less than the borrowing capacity of the
            facility.
          



       
    

      An event of default, a negative ratings action by a rating
      agency, the perception of financial weakness, an adverse
      action by a regulatory authority, a lengthening of
      foreclosure timelines or a general deterioration in the
      economy that constricts the availability of credit may
      increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to
      renew existing credit facilities or obtain new lines of
      credit.
    

       
    

      Our advance facilities are revolving facilities, and in a
      typical monthly cycle, we repay up to one-third of the
      borrowings under these facilities from collections. During
      the remittance cycle, which starts in the middle of each
      month, we depend on our lenders to provide the cash necessary
      to make remittances to the Servicing investors where such new
      advances represent eligible collateral under our advance
      facilities. If one or more of these lenders were to fail, we
      may not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations.
    

       
    

      A significant increase in prepayment speeds or could
      adversely affect our financial results.
    

       
    

      Prepayment speed is a significant driver of our business.
      Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers
      pay down the UPB of their loans or how quickly loans are
      otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged
      off. Prepayment speeds have a significant impact on our
      servicing fee revenues, our expenses and on the valuation of
      our MSRs as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

Revenue. If prepayment speeds increase,
            our servicing fees will decline more rapidly than
            anticipated because of the greater than expected
            decrease in the UPB on which those fees are based. The
            reduction in servicing fees would be somewhat offset by
            increased float earnings because the faster repayment
            of loans will result in higher balances in the
            custodial accounts that generate the float earnings.
            Conversely, decreases in prepayment speeds drive
            increased servicing fees and lead to lower float
            balances and float earnings.
          



       
    




              16
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

            ·
          

Expenses. Amortization of MSRs is one of
            our largest operating expenses. Since we amortize
            servicing rights in proportion to total expected income
            over the life of a portfolio, an increase in prepayment
            speeds leads to increased amortization expense as we
            revise downward our estimate of total expected income.
            Faster prepayment speeds will also result in higher
            compensating interest expense. Decreases in prepayment
            speeds lead to decreased amortization expense as the
            period over which we amortize MSRs is extended. Slower
            prepayment speeds also lead to lower compensating
            interest expense.
          



             
          

            ·
          

Valuation of MSRs. We base the price we
            pay for MSRs and the rate of amortization of those
            rights on, among other things, our projection of the
            cash flows from the related pool of mortgage loans. Our
            expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant
            assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If
            prepayment speeds were significantly greater than
            expected, the carrying value of our MSRs could exceed
            their estimated fair value. When the carrying value of
            MSRs exceeds their fair value, we are required to
            record an impairment charge which has a negative impact
            on our financial results.
          



       
    

      We may be unable to gain access to newly originated loans,
      which may have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain
      or expand our servicing portfolio.
    

       
    

      The lack of subprime originations since the middle of 2007
      and uncertain prospects for acquiring other new loans to
      service may have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain
      or expand our servicing portfolio.
    

       
    

      We use estimates in determining the fair value of certain
      assets, such as MSRs. If our estimates prove to be incorrect,
      we may be required to write down the value of these assets
      which could adversely affect our earnings.
    

       
    

      We estimate the fair value of our MSRs by calculating the
      present value of expected future cash flows utilizing
      assumptions that we believe are used by market participants.
      The methodology used to estimate these values is complex and
      uses asset-specific collateral data and market inputs for
      interest and discount rates and liquidity dates.
    

       
    

      Valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of
      our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships
      that drive the results of our valuation methodologies. If
      prepayment speeds increase more than estimated, delinquency
      and default levels are higher than anticipated or financial
      market illiquidity continues beyond our estimate, we may be
      required to write down the value of certain assets which
      could adversely affect our earnings.
    

       
    

      A downgrade in our servicer ratings could have an adverse
      effect on our business, financing activities, financial
      condition or results of operations.
    

       
    

      Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch rate us
      as a mortgage servicer. Favorable ratings from these agencies
      are important to the conduct of our loan servicing business.
      As disclosed in “Operating
      Segments-Servicing-Third-Party Servicer Ratings”,
      Standard & Poor’s and Fitch downgraded their
      residential subprime servicing ratings of OLS in 2011.
      Downgrades in servicer ratings could adversely affect our ability to finance servicing
      advances and maintain our status as an approved servicer by
      Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Downgrades in our servicer
      ratings could also lead to the early termination of existing
      advance facilities and affect the terms and availability
      of match funded advance facilities that we may seek in the
      future. In addition, some of our PSAs require that the
      servicer maintain specified servicer ratings. Our failure to
      maintain favorable or specified ratings may cause our
      termination as servicer and further impair our ability
      to consummate future servicing transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our
      business, financing activities, financial condition and
      results of operations.


       
    

      Loan putbacks could adversely affect our business.
    

       
    

      Ocwen has been a party to loan sales and securitizations
      dating back to the 1990s. The majority of securities issued
      in these transactions has been retired and is not subject to
      putback risk. There is one remaining securitization with an
      original UPB of approximately $200 million where Ocwen
      provided representations and warranties and the loans were
      originated in the last decade. Ocwen performed due diligence
      on each of the loans included in this securitization. The
      outstanding UPB of this securitization was $47.7 million at
      December 31, 2011, and the outstanding balance of the notes
      was $48.5 million. Ocwen is not aware of any inquiries or
      claims regarding loan putbacks for any transaction where we
      made representations and warranties. We do not expect loan
      putbacks to result in any material change to our financial
      position, operating results or liquidity.
    

       
    

      Our earnings may be inconsistent.
    

       
    

      Our past financial performance should not be considered a
      reliable indicator of future performance, and historical
      trends may not be reliable indicators of anticipated
      financial performance or trends in future periods.
    

       
    

      The consistency of our operating results may be significantly
      affected by inter-period variations in our current operations
      including the amount of servicing rights acquired and the
      changes in realizable value of those assets due to, among
      other factors, increases or decreases in prepayment speeds,
      delinquencies or defaults.
    

       
    




              17
              








               
            




       
    

      Certain non-recurring gains and losses that have
      significantly affected our operating results may result in
      substantial inter-period variations in financial performance.
    

       
    

      Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating
      our exposure to interest rate risk.
    

       
    

      At present, we have entered into interest rate swaps and caps
      to fix our exposure to variable interest rates under our
      match funded advance funding facilities. If we are successful
      in acquiring additional servicing or sub-servicing rights,
      there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the
      fixed rate financing that would be necessary to protect us
      from the effect of rising interest rates. Therefore, we may
      consider utilizing various derivative financial instruments
      to protect against the effects of rising rates. Nevertheless,
      no hedging strategy can completely protect us. The derivative
      financial instruments that we select may not have the effect
      of reducing our interest rate risks. Poorly designed
      strategies, improperly executed and documented transactions
      or inaccurate assumptions could actually increase our risks
      and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve
      transaction and other costs. We cannot be assured that our
      hedging strategies and the derivatives that we use will
      adequately offset the risks of interest rate volatility or
      that our hedging transactions will not result in or magnify
      losses.
    

       
    

      We have significant operations in India that could be
      adversely affected by changes in the political or economic
      stability of India or by government policies in India or the
      U.S.
    

       
    

      More than 80% of our employees are located in India. A
      significant change in India’s economic liberalization
      and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and
      economic conditions in India generally and our business in
      particular. The political or regulatory climate in the U.S.
      or elsewhere also could change so that it would not be lawful
      or practical for us to use international operations centers.
      For example, changes in privacy regulations could require us
      to curtail our use of lower-cost operations in India to
      service our businesses. If we were to cease our operations in
      India and transfer these operations to another geographic
      area, we could incur increased overhead costs that could
      materially and adversely affect our results of operations.
    

       
    

      We may need to increase the levels of our employee
      compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent.
      Unless we are able to continue to enhance the efficiency and
      productivity of our employees, wage increases in the long
      term may reduce our profitability.
    

       
    

      Technology failures could damage our business operations or
      reputation and increase our costs.
    

       
    

      The financial services industry as a whole is characterized
      by rapidly changing technologies, and system disruptions and
      failures may interrupt or delay our ability to provide
      services to our customers. The secure transmission of
      confidential information over the Internet and other
      electronic distribution and communication systems is
      essential to our maintaining consumer confidence in certain
      of our services. Security breaches, computer viruses, acts of
      vandalism and developments in computer capabilities could
      result in a compromise or breach of the technology that we
      use to protect our customers’ personal information and
      transaction data. Consumers generally are concerned with
      security breaches and privacy on the Internet, and Congress
      or individual states could enact new laws regulating the
      electronic commerce market that could adversely affect us.
      In addition, given the volume of
      transactions that we process and monitor, certain errors may
      be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and
      rectified. If one or more of such events occurs, this could
      potentially jeopardize data integrity or confidentiality of
      information processed and stored in, or transmitted through,
      our computer systems and networks, which could result in
      significant losses, reputational damage and legal liabilities
      to us.


       
    

      Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to
      process and monitor a large number of transactions, many of
      which are complex, across numerous and diverse real estate
      markets. These transactions often must adhere to the terms of
      the complex legal agreements, as well as legal and regulatory
      standards. We are responsible for developing and maintaining
      operational systems and infrastructure, which is challenging.
      Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating
      systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become
      disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially
      beyond their control, such as a spike in transaction volume
      or unforeseen catastrophic events, potentially resulting in
      data loss and adversely affecting our ability to process
      these transactions.
    

       
    

      The loss of the services of our senior managers could have an
      adverse effect on us.
    

       
    

      The experience of our senior managers is a valuable asset to
      us. Our executive chairman, William C. Erbey, has been with
      us since our founding in 1987, and our president and chief
      executive officer, Ronald M. Faris, joined us in 1991. Other
      senior managers have been with us for 10 years or more. We do
      not have employment agreements with, or maintain key man life
      insurance relating to, Mr. Erbey, Mr. Faris or any of our
      other executive officers. The loss of the services of our
      senior managers could have an adverse effect on us.
    

       
    




              18
              








               
            




       
    

      Our directors and executive officers collectively own a large
      percentage of our common shares and could influence or
      control matters requiring shareholder approval.
    

       
    

      Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates
      collectively own or control approximately 18% of our
      outstanding common shares. This includes approximately 14%
      owned or controlled by our executive chairman, William C.
      Erbey, and approximately 4% owned or controlled by our
      director and former chairman, Barry N. Wish. As a result,
      these shareholders could influence or control virtually all
      matters requiring shareholder approval, including the
      amendment of our articles of incorporation, the approval of
      mergers or similar transactions and the election of all
      directors.
    

       
    

      We are exposed to market risk, including, among other things,
      liquidity risk, prepayment risk and foreign currency exchange
      risk.
    

       
    

      We are exposed to liquidity risk primarily because of the
      highly variable daily cash requirements to support our
      servicing business including the requirement to make advances
      pursuant to servicing contracts and the process of remitting
      borrower payments to the custodial accounts. In general, we
      finance our operations through operating cash flows and
      various other sources of funding including match funded
      agreements, secured lines of credit and repurchase
      agreements. We believe that we have adequate financing for
      the next twelve months.
    

       
    

      We are exposed to interest rate risk to the degree that our
      interest-bearing liabilities mature or reprice at different
      speeds, or different bases, than our interest earning assets
      or when financed assets are not interest-bearing. Our
      servicing business is characterized by non-interest earning
      assets financed by interest bearing liabilities. Among the
      more significant non-interest earning assets are servicing
      advances and MSRs. At December 31, 2011, we had total
      advances and match funded advances of $3.7 billion. We are
      also exposed to interest rate risk because 34% of our
      outstanding debt at December 31, 2011 is variable rate.
      Rising interest rates may increase our interest expense.
      Nevertheless, earnings on float balances (assets) partially
      offset this variability. We have also entered into interest
      rate swaps and an interest rate cap to hedge our exposure to
      rising interest rates.
    

       
    

      We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in
      connection with our investment in non-U.S. dollar functional
      currency operations to the extent that our foreign exchange
      positions remain unhedged. Our operations in Uruguay and
      India expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk, but
      we consider this risk to be insignificant. During 2011, we
      entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge
      against the effect of changes in the value of the India Rupee
      on amounts payable to our subsidiary in India. In January
      2012, we terminated these contracts prior to their scheduled
      maturity.
    

       
    

Risks Relating to Government Regulation


       
    

      Regulatory scrutiny regarding foreclosure processes could
      lengthen timelines or increase prepayment speeds which would
      negatively impact our liquidity and profitability.
    

       
    

      As discussed in the “Operating Segments -
      Servicing” section, state banking regulators and state
      attorneys general have publicly announced that they have
      initiated inquiries into banks and servicers regarding
      compliance with legal procedures in connection with mortgage
      foreclosures, including the preparation, execution,
      notarization and submission of documents, principally
      affidavits, filed in connection with foreclosures. The
      process to foreclose on properties securing residential
      mortgage loans is governed by state law and varies by state.
      For the most part, these inquiries have arisen from the 25
      so-called “judicial states,” namely, those
      jurisdictions that require lenders or their servicers to go
      through a judicial proceeding to obtain a foreclosure order.
      In these judicial states, lenders or their servicers are
      generally required to provide to the court the mortgage loan
      documents and a sworn and notarized affidavit of an officer
      of the lender or its servicer with respect to the facts
      regarding the delinquency of the mortgage loan and the
      foreclosure. These affidavits are generally required to be
      based on the personal knowledge of the officer that executes
      the affidavit after a review of the mortgage loan documents.
      Regulators from “quasi-judicial states” and
      “non-judicial states,” however, have made similar
      inquiries as well. In these states, lenders or their
      servicers may foreclose on a defaulted mortgage loan by
      delivering to the borrower a notice of the foreclosure sale
      without the requirement of going through a judicial
      proceeding, unless the borrower contests the foreclosure or
      files for bankruptcy. If the borrower contests the
      foreclosure or files for bankruptcy in a non-judicial state,
      court proceedings, including affidavits similar to those
      provided in the judicial states will generally be required.
    

       
    

      In connection with the recent governmental scrutiny of
      foreclosure processes and practices in the industry, the
      attorneys general of certain states and certain members of
      the U.S. Congress and state legislatures have called for a
      temporary moratorium on mortgage foreclosures, although no
      state has implemented a general foreclosure moratorium on
      mortgage loan servicers to date. In addition, some individual
      municipalities have begun to enact laws that may increase the
      time that it currently takes to complete a foreclosure or
      prevent foreclosures in such jurisdictions. Such moratoria or
      other action by federal, state or municipal government
      bodies, regulators or courts could increase the length of
      time needed to complete the foreclosure process.
    

       
    




              19
              








               
            




       
    

      When a mortgage loan is in foreclosure, we are generally
      required to continue to advance delinquent principal and
      interest to the securitization trust and also to make
      advances for delinquent taxes and insurance and foreclosure
      costs and the upkeep of vacant property in foreclosure to the
      extent that we determine that such amounts are recoverable.
      These servicing advances are generally recovered when the
      delinquency is resolved. Foreclosure moratoria or other
      actions that lengthen the foreclosure process will increase
      the amount of servicing advances that we are required to
      make, lengthen the time it takes for us to be reimbursed for
      such advances and increase the costs incurred during the
      foreclosure process. In addition, advance financing
      facilities generally contain provisions that limit the
      eligibility of servicing advances to be financed based on the
      length of time that the servicing advances are outstanding.
      One of our match funded advance facilities has provisions
      that limit new borrowings if average foreclosure timelines
      extend beyond a certain time period. As a result, an increase
      in foreclosure timelines could further increase the amount of
      servicing advances that we need to fund with our own capital.
      Such increases in foreclosure timelines could increase our
      interest expense, delay the collection of servicing fee
      revenue until the foreclosure has been resolved and,
      therefore, reduce the cash that we have available to pay our
      operating expenses.
    

       
    

      Governmental bodies may also impose regulatory fines or
      penalties as a result of our foreclosure processes or impose
      additional requirements or restrictions on such activities
      which could increase our operating expenses. For instance, in
      April 2011 the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
      (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
      (FRB) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
      entered into consent orders with the fourteen largest
      mortgage servicers to address alleged deficient practices in
      residential mortgage loan servicing and foreclosure
      processing. Under the consent orders, these mortgage
      servicers are required to submit written remediation plans
      addressing enterprise-wide risk management, internal audit
      and compliance programs for their residential mortgage loan
      servicing, loss mitigation and foreclosure activities.
      Remedial measures required under these consent orders and
      written plans may include, among other measures, revisions to
      servicing operations and remediation of all financial injury
      to borrowers caused by any errors, misrepresentations or
      other deficiencies identified in the parties’ recent
      foreclosures. Ocwen is not subject to OCC, FRB or FDIC
      regulation, and therefore it has not been subject to any
      consent decree initiated by these federal regulatory
      agencies. Nevertheless, Ocwen could become subject to similar
      consent decrees, enforcement actions or investigations as a
      result of other federal or state regulatory or legislative
      action.
    

       
    

      In general, these regulatory developments with respect to
      foreclosure practices could result in increases in the amount
      of servicing advances and the length of time to recover
      servicing advances, fines or increases in operating expenses,
      and decreases in the advance rate and availability of
      financing for servicing advances. This could in turn lead to
      increased borrowings, reduced cash and higher interest
      expense which could negatively impact our liquidity and
      profitability.
    

       
    

      President Obama recently announced a proposed plan to assist
      homeowners meeting certain eligibility criteria to refinance
      non-conforming mortgage loans through the FHA. Under the
      proposal, borrowers need to be current on their mortgage loan
      payments for the immediately preceding six months and have a
      minimum credit score of 580 to be eligible. The complete
      details of this proposal have not been released. Before
      becoming effective, this proposal would require congressional
      approval, and material elements of it could change before or
      during the legislative process. If enacted, such a plan could
      result in an increase in prepayment speeds and negatively
      affect our earnings and operating results.
    

       
    

      On February 9, 2012, the Department of Housing and Urban
      Development (HUD) and attorneys general representing 49
      states and the District of Columbia announced a $25 billion
      settlement (the Joint Federal-State Servicing Settlement)
      with the five largest mortgage servicers—Bank of
      America Corporation, JP Morgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo
      & Company, Citigroup Inc. and Ally Financial Inc.
      (formerly GMAC)—regarding servicing and foreclosure
      issues. In addition to assessing monetary penalties which are
      required to be used to provide financial relief to borrowers
      (including refinancing and principal write-downs), the Joint
      Federal-State Servicing Settlement requires these servicers
      to implement changes in how they service mortgage loans,
      handle foreclosures and provide information to bankruptcy
      courts. The complete details of these servicing changes have
      not been released. The federal-state regulators may seek to
      expand the participation in the Joint Federal-State Servicing
      Settlement or similar settlements to other servicers and
      could seek to include OLS. Though the details of the
      servicing practices associated with the Joint Federal-State
      Servicing Settlement are incomplete, their implementation
      could result in increased costs for servicing mortgage loans
      generally. In addition, the implementation of a refinancing
      or principal write-down program like that contemplated by the
      Joint Federal-State Servicing Settlement could result in an
      increase in prepayment speeds and negatively affect our
      operating results.
    

       
    




              20
              








               
            




       
    

      Governmental and legal proceedings and related costs could
      adversely affect our financial results.
    

       
    

      An adverse result in a governmental investigation or private
      lawsuits, including purported class action lawsuits, could
      affect our financial condition and results of operations. We
      and certain of our affiliates have been named as defendants
      in a number of lawsuits, including purported class actions,
      challenging our residential loan servicing practices. Also,
      OLS received a Civil Investigative Demand (CID) from the FTC
      on November 24, 2010, requesting documents and information
      concerning various loan servicing activities. A number of our
      competitors and others in the industry have paid significant
      sums to resolve investigations initiated by the FTC and/or
      settle lawsuits brought against them that raised claims
      similar to those raised in the lawsuits brought against us
      and our affiliates. In July 2010, OLS received two subpoenas
      from the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) as conservator
      for Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae in connection with ten private
      label mortgage securitization transactions where Freddie Mac
      and Fannie Mae have invested. The transactions include
      mortgage loans serviced but not originated by OLS or its
      affiliates. There is no allegation of wrongdoing in the
      subpoenas against OLS, and we are cooperating with the
      FHFA’s requests. On November 7, 2011, OLS received a
      CID from the Attorney General’s Office of the
      Commonwealth of Massachusetts requesting documents and
      information regarding certain foreclosures executed in
      Massachusetts. There is no allegation of wrongdoing against
      OLS in the Massachusetts Attorney General CID, and we are
      cooperating with the Massachusetts Attorney General’s
      request. On January 18, 2012, OLS received a subpoena from
      the New York Department of Financial Services requesting
      documents regarding OLS’ policies, procedures and
      practices regarding lender placed or “force
      placed” insurance which is required to be provided for
      borrowers who allow their hazard insurance policies to lapse.
      There is no allegation of wrongdoing against OLS in the
      subpoena, and we are cooperating with the New York Department
      of Financial Service’s request. As discussed above, HUD
      and state attorneys general recently concluded an agreement
      with five large bank mortgage servicers resulting in
      approximately $25 billion in monetary sanctions or relief to
      borrowers. These actions concern allegations of improper
      actions related to foreclosure processes and other servicing
      practices. Litigation and government proceedings may require
      that we pay significant legal fees, settlement costs,
      damages, penalties or other charges, or undertake remedial
      actions pursuant to administrative orders or court-issued
      injunctions, any of which could adversely affect our
      financial results. For more information about our legal
      proceedings, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”
    

       
    

      The expanding body of federal, state and local regulation
      and/or the licensing of mortgage servicers, collection
      agencies or other aspects of our business may increase the
      cost of compliance and the risks of noncompliance.
    

       
    

      As noted in the “Regulation” section, the
      servicing of residential mortgage loans is subject to
      extensive federal, state and local laws, regulations and
      administrative decisions. The volume of new or modified laws
      and regulations has increased in recent years and is likely
      to continue to increase. If our regulators impose new or more
      restrictive requirements, we may incur additional significant
      costs to comply with such requirements which may further
      adversely affect our results of operations or financial
      condition. In addition, our failure to comply with these laws
      and regulations could lead to civil and criminal liability;
      loss of licensure; damage to our reputation in the industry;
      fines and penalties and litigation, including class action
      lawsuits; or administrative enforcement actions. Any of these
      outcomes may adversely affect our results of operations or
      financial condition.
    

       
    

      FHFA and GSE initiatives and other actions may affect
      mortgage servicing generally and future servicing fees in
      particular.
    

       
    

      In 2011, Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae each issued their
      Servicing Alignment Initiative as directed by the Federal
      Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The Servicing Alignment
      Initiative established new requirements primarily related to
      loss mitigation processes, including servicer incentives and
      compensatory fees that could be charged to servicers based on
      performance against benchmarks for various metrics. Through
      our servicing relationship with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae,
      in part as a result of our acquisition of Litton, we have
      potential exposure to such compensatory fees. It is possible
      that the compensatory fees could substantially increase the
      costs and risks associated with servicing Freddie Mac or
      Fannie Mae non-performing loans. Moreover, due to the
      significant role Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac play in the
      secondary mortgage market, it is possible that compensatory
      fee requirements and similar initiatives that they implement
      could become prevalent in the mortgage servicing industry
      generally. Other industry stakeholders or regulators may also
      implement or require changes in response to the perception
      that current mortgage servicing practices and compensation do
      not serve broader housing policy objectives well. To the
      extent that FHFA and/or the GSEs implement reforms that
      materially affect the market for conforming loans, there may
      also be indirect effects on the subprime and Alt-A markets,
      which could include material adverse effects on the creation
      of new mortgage servicing rights, the economics or
      performance of any mortgage servicing rights that we acquire,
      servicing fees that we can charge and costs that we incur to
      comply with new servicing requirements.
    

       
    

      Changes to government loan modification and refinance
      programs may adversely affect future incremental revenues.
    

       
    

      Under government programs such as HAMP, a participating
      servicer may be entitled to receive financial incentives in
      connection with modification plans it enters into with
      eligible borrowers and subsequent “pay for
      success” fees to the extent that a borrower remains
      current in any agreed upon loan modification. Changes in
      current legislative actions regarding such loan modification
      and refinance programs, future U.S. federal, state and/or
      local legislative or regulatory actions that result in the
      modification of outstanding mortgage loans, and changes in
      the requirements necessary to qualify for refinancing
      mortgage loans may impact the future extent to which we
      participate in and receive financial benefits from such
      programs and may have a material effect on our business. To
      the extent that we continue to participate in the HAMP, there
      is no guarantee as to the continued expectation of future
      incremental revenues from this source.
    

       
    

      The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SAFE Act, or other
      legislative and regulatory developments may adversely affect
      our business.
    

       
    

      As disclosed in the “Regulation” section, the
      Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law on July 21, 2010. Certain
      provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may impact our business. For
      example, we may be required to clear and exchange trade some
      or all of the swap transactions that we enter into which
      could result in higher cost, less transaction flexibility and
      price disclosure. Because many provisions of the Dodd-Frank
      Act require rulemaking action by governmental agencies to
      implement, we cannot predict the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act
      on Ocwen and its business.
    

       
    




              21
              








               
            




       
    

      The Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of
      2008 (the S.A.F.E. Act) requires the individual licensing and
      registration of those engaged in the business of loan
      origination. The S.A.F.E. Act is designed to improve
      accountability on the part of loan originators, combat fraud
      and enhance consumer protections by encouraging states to
      establish a national licensing system and minimum
      qualification requirements for applicants. HUD is the federal
      agency charged with establishing and enforcing a licensing
      and registration system that meets the minimum requirements
      of the S.A.F.E. Act. On December 15, 2009, HUD proposed a
      rule that would extend the licensing requirements for loan
      originators to servicing personnel who are performing
      modifications. The servicing industry has responded to this
      proposed rule by requesting HUD reconsider its position as
      the licensing costs and impact to the modification process
      will increase the cost of servicing, including our costs of
      servicing any affected mortgage loans. It is not known at
      this time whether HUD will modify its proposed licensing
      requirements for servicing personnel.
    

       
    

      Additionally, the U.S. Congress, regulators and/or various
      state and local governing bodies may enact other legislation
      or take regulatory action designed to address mortgage
      servicing practices, housing finance policy or the current
      economic crisis that could have an adverse effect on Ocwen
      and its business.
    

       
    

      Risks Relating to Acquisitions
    

       
    

      Pursuit of acquisitions, such as the Litton Acquisition, the
      Saxon Acquisition or various MSR acquisitions, exposes us to
      financial, execution and operational risks that could
      adversely affect us.
    

       
    

      We periodically explore acquisition opportunities, such as
      the Litton Acquisition, the Saxon Acquisition or various MSR
      acquisitions. In connection with such acquisition
      opportunities, we may be exposed to unknown or contingent
      liabilities of the businesses, assets and liabilities we
      acquire, and if these issues or liabilities exceed our
      estimates, our results of operations and financial condition
      may be materially negatively affected. For example, as a part
      of the Litton Acquisition, Goldman Sachs and Ocwen have
      agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of the
      other party. While Goldman Sachs has agreed to retain certain
      potential liabilities for fines and penalties that could be
      imposed by certain government authorities relating to
      Litton’s pre-closing foreclosure and servicing
      practices, Goldman Sachs and Ocwen have agreed to share
      certain losses arising out of potential third-party claims in
      connection with Litton’s pre-closing performance under
      its servicing agreements. Goldman Sachs has agreed to be
      liable for (i) 80% of any such losses until the amount paid
      by Goldman Sachs is equal to 80% of the Goldman Shared Loss
      Cap and (ii) thereafter, 20% of any such losses until the
      amount paid by Goldman Sachs is equal to the Goldman Shared
      Loss Cap. Ocwen has agreed to be liable for (i) 20% of any
      such losses until the amount paid by Ocwen is equal to 20% of
      the Goldman Shared Loss Cap, (ii) thereafter, 80% of any such
      losses until the amount paid by Ocwen is equal to the Goldman
      Shared Loss Cap and (iii) thereafter, 100% of any such losses
      in excess of the Goldman Shared Loss Cap. The “Goldman
      Shared Loss Cap” is currently approximately $123.7
      million, or 50%, of the adjusted purchase price of the Litton
      Acquisition, which may be further adjusted after final
      reconciliations of the purchase price are made. We cannot
      assure you that Goldman Sachs will be able to fulfill its
      indemnification obligations or that the losses incurred by
      Ocwen will not exceed our original projections.
    

       
    

      Similarly, as a part of the Saxon Acquisition that we
      announced on October 19, 2011, the sellers and Ocwen have
      agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of the
      other party. While the sellers have agreed to retain certain
      contingent liabilities for losses, fines and penalties that
      could result from claims by government authorities and
      certain third parties relating to SCI’s pre-closing
      foreclosure, servicing and loan origination practices, the
      sellers and Ocwen have agreed to share certain losses arising
      out of potential third-party claims in connection with
      SCI’s pre-closing performance under its servicing
      agreements. The sellers have agreed to be liable for (i) 75%
      of any such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is
      equal to 60% of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap of $83 million and
      (ii) thereafter, 25% of any such losses until the amount paid
      by the sellers is equal to the Saxon Shared Loss Cap. Ocwen
      has agreed to be liable for (i) first, 25% of any such losses
      until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to 60% of the
      Saxon Shared Loss Cap, (ii) second, 75% of any such losses
      until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to the Saxon
      Shared Loss Cap and (iii) thereafter, 100% of any such losses
      in excess of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap. We cannot assure you
      that the sellers will be able to fulfill their
      indemnification obligations or that the losses incurred by
      Ocwen will not exceed our original projections.
    

       
    

      We may be required to pay for certain above-described losses
      in connection with the Litton Acquisition, the Saxon
      Acquisition or any MSR acquisitions. While we reserve amounts
      to pay for any of the above-described losses incurred in
      connection with such acquisitions, those reserves may not be
      adequate over time to protect against potential future
      losses, and if any such losses exceed the amount in the
      reserves, we would recognize losses covering such excess
      amount, which would adversely affect our net income and
      stockholders’ equity and, depending on the extent of
      such excess losses, could adversely affect our business. It
      is possible that certain financial covenants in our credit
      facilities would be breached by such excess losses.
    

       
    




              22
              








               
            




       
    

      In addition, the performance of the assets we acquire through
      transactions such as the Litton Acquisition, the Saxon
      Acquisition or any MSR acquisitions may not match the
      historical performance of our other assets. We cannot
      guarantee that the assets we acquire will perform at levels
      meeting our expectations. We may find that we overpaid for
      the acquired assets or that the economic conditions
      underlying our acquisition decision have changed. It may also
      take several quarters for us to fully integrate the newly
      acquired assets into our business, during which period our
      results of operations and financial condition may be
      negatively affected. Further, certain one-time expenses
      associated with such acquisitions may have a negative impact
      on our results of operations and financial condition. We
      cannot assure you that future acquisitions will not adversely
      affect our results of operations and financial condition.
    

       
    

      The acquisition of entities such as Litton and SCI also
      requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of
      the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction
      economically successful. This integration process is
      complicated and time consuming and can be disruptive to the
      borrowers of the loans serviced by the acquired business. If
      the integration process is not conducted successfully and
      with minimal effect on the acquired business and its
      borrowers, we may not realize the anticipated economic
      benefits of particular acquisitions within our expected
      timeframe, and we may lose subservicing business or employees
      of the acquired business. We may also experience a greater
      than anticipated loss of business even if the integration
      process is successful.
    

       
    

      Further, prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate
      with market conditions. We have experienced times during
      which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at
      prices we considered acceptable, and we expect that we will
      experience this condition in the future. In addition, in
      order to finance an acquisition we may borrow funds, thereby
      increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or
      raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of
      our existing shareholders. Also, it is possible that we will
      expend considerable resources in the pursuit of an
      acquisition that, ultimately, either does not close or is
      terminated.
    

       
    

Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock


 


      Our common stock price may experience substantial volatility
      which may affect your ability to sell our common stock at an
      advantageous price.
    

       
    

      The market price of our shares of common stock has been and
      may continue to be volatile. For example, the closing market
      price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange
      fluctuated during 2011 between $9.50 per share and $14.73 per
      share and may continue to fluctuate. Therefore, the
      volatility may affect your ability to sell our common stock
      at an advantageous price. Market price fluctuations in our
      common stock may be due to acquisitions, dispositions or
      other material public announcements along with a variety of
      additional factors including, without limitation, those set
      forth under “Risk Factors” and
      “Forward-Looking Statements.” In addition, the
      stock markets in general, including the New York Stock
      Exchange, recently have experienced extreme price and trading
      fluctuations. These fluctuations have resulted in volatility
      in the market prices of securities that often has been
      unrelated or disproportionate to changes in operating
      performance. These broad market fluctuations may adversely
      affect the market prices of our common stock.
    

       
    

      Because of certain provisions of our organizational
      documents, takeovers may be more difficult possibly
      preventing you from obtaining an optimal share price.
    

       
    

      Our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide
      that the total number of shares of all classes of capital
      stock that we have authority to issue is 220 million, of
      which 200 million are common shares and 20 million are
      preferred shares. Our Board of Directors has the authority,
      without a vote of the shareholders, to establish the
      preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or
      series of shares to be issued and to issue such shares. The
      issuance of preferred shares could delay or prevent a change
      in control. Since our Board of Directors has the power to
      establish the preferences and rights of the preferred shares
      without a shareholder vote, our Board of Directors may give
      the holders of preferred shares preferences, powers and
      rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of
      holders of our common shares.
    

       
    

      Shares of our common stock are relatively illiquid.
    

       
    

      As of December 31, 2011, we had 129,899,288 shares of common
      stock outstanding. As of that date, 18% of our common stock
      was held by our officers and directors and their affiliates.
      As of that same date, another 19% of our common stock was
      held by two investors. As a result of our relatively small
      public float, our common stock may be less liquid than the
      common stock of companies with broader public ownership. The
      trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may
      have a greater impact on the trading price of our common
      stock than would be the case if our public float were larger.
    

       
    




              23
              








               
            




       
    

Risks Relating to the Separation of Altisource


 


      We could have conflicts with Altisource, and our Chairman of
      the Board, and other officers and directors, could have
      conflicts of interest due to their relationships with Ocwen
      and Altisource which may be resolved in a manner adverse to
      us.
    

       
    

      Conflicts may arise between Ocwen and Altisource as a result
      of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective
      businesses. Among other things, we became a party to a
      variety of agreements with Altisource in connection with the
      Separation, and we may enter into further agreements with
      Altisource after the Separation. Certain of our executive
      officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of
      interest with respect to such agreements and other matters
      due to their relationships with Altisource.
    

       
    

      William C. Erbey, Ocwen’s executive Chairman of the
      Board, became Altisource’s non-executive Chairman of
      the Board as a result of the Separation. As a result, he has
      obligations to us as well as to Altisource and may
      potentially have conflicts of interest with respect to
      matters potentially or actually involving or affecting Ocwen
      and Altisource.
    

       
    

      Mr. Erbey owns substantial amounts of Altisource common stock
      and stock options because of his relationships with
      Altisource. This ownership could create or appear to create
      potential conflicts of interest when our Chairman of the
      Board is faced with decisions that involve Ocwen, Altisource
      or any of their respective subsidiaries.
    

       
    

      Matters that could give rise to conflicts between Ocwen and
      Altisource include, among other things:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            any competitive actions by Altisource;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            the quality and pricing of services that Altisource has
            agreed to provide to us or that we have agreed to
            provide to Altisource and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            our ongoing and future relationships with Altisource,
            including related party agreements and other
            arrangements with respect to the administration of tax
            matters, employee benefits, indemnification and other
            matters.
          



       
    

      We will also seek to manage these potential conflicts through
      dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements
      with Altisource and through oversight by independent members
      of our Board of Directors. There can be no assurance that
      such measures will be effective, that we will be able to
      resolve all conflicts with Altisource or that the resolution
      of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if
      we were dealing with a third party.
    

       
    

      The tax liability to Ocwen as a result of the Separation
      could be substantial.
    

       
    

      Prior to the Separation, any assets transferred to Altisource
      or non-U.S. subsidiaries were taxable pursuant to Section
      367(a) of the Code, or other applicable provisions of the
      Internal Revenue Code (the Code) and Treasury regulations.
      Taxable gains not recognized in the restructuring were
      generally recognized pursuant to the Separation itself under
      Section 367(b). The taxable gain recognized by Ocwen
      attributable to the transfer of assets to Altisource equaled
      the excess of the fair market value of each asset transferred
      over Ocwen’s basis in such asset. Ocwen’s basis
      in some assets transferred to Altisource may have been low or
      zero which could result in a substantial tax liability to
      Ocwen. In addition, the amount of taxable gain was based on a
      determination of the fair market value of Ocwen’s
      transferred assets. The determination of fair market values
      of non-publicly traded assets is subjective and could be
      subject to closing date adjustments or future challenge by
      the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) which could result in
      an increased U.S. federal income tax liability to Ocwen.
    

 


      Tax regulations under Section 7874 of the Code, if held
      applicable to the Separation, could materially increase tax
      costs to Ocwen.
    

       
    

      IRS tax regulations under Section 7874 can apply to
      transactions where a U.S. corporation contributes assets,
      including subsidiary equity interests, to a foreign
      corporation and distributes shares of such corporation, as in
      the Separation and related transactions. We do not believe
      that Section 7874 of the Code applies to the Separation.
      Ocwen’s board of directors required that Ocwen and
      Altisource receive an independent valuation prior to
      completing the Separation; however, if the IRS were to
      successfully challenge the independent valuation, then Ocwen
      may not be permitted to offset the taxable gain recognized on
      the transfer of assets to Altisource with net operating
      losses, tax credits or other tax attributes. This could
      materially increase the tax costs to Ocwen of the Separation.
    

       
    



ITEM 1B.


UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS




       
    

      None.
    

       
    




              24
              








               
            




       
    



ITEM 2:


PROPERTIES




       
    

      The following table sets forth information relating to our
      primary facilities at December 31, 2011:
    

       
    




              Location
            



               
            



              Owned/Leased
            



               
            



              Square Footage
            




            Principal executive office:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Atlanta, Georgia (1)
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            2,094
          



            Document storage and imaging facility:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Riviera Beach, Florida
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            30,000
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Business operations and technology support offices:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            West Palm Beach, Florida
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            41,860
          



            North Highlands, California (2)
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            129,030
          



            Raleigh, North Carolina (2)
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            46,528
          



            Houston, Texas (3)
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            198,946
          



            McDonough, Georgia (3)
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            62,000
          



            Bangalore, India
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            86,413
          



            Mumbai, India
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            47,765
          



            Montevideo, Uruguay
          

             
          

            Leased
          

             
          

            16,668
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            In December 2010, we entered into an agreement to
            sublease this space from Altisource through October
            2014.
          



            (2)
          

            We assumed these leases in connection with our
            acquisition of HomEq Servicing. We shut down the former
            HomEq operations in 2010 and ceased using these
            facilities. In 2010, we exercised our option to
            terminate these leases effective in 2013.
          



            (3)
          

            We assumed these leases in connection with our
            acquisition of Litton Loan Servicing. The lease of the
            Houston, Texas facility expires in August 2012 and will
            likely not be renewed.
          



       
    

      In addition to the facilities listed in the table above, we
      also lease small offices in Orlando, Florida and Washington,
      D.C.
    

       
    



ITEM 3.


LEGAL PROCEEDINGS




       
    

      A description of material pending or recently settled legal
      proceedings to which OCN or its subsidiaries are a party
      follows:
    

       
    

      Since April 2004, we have been included as a defendant in
      litigation in federal court in Chicago which consolidated
      certain class actions and individual actions brought by
      borrowers in various federal and state courts challenging the
      defendants’ mortgage servicing practices, including
      charging improper or unnecessary fees, misapplying borrower
      payments and similar allegations (the MDL Proceeding). We
      believe the allegations in the MDL Proceeding are without
      merit and have defended against them vigorously. In the
      interests of obtaining finality and cost certainty with
      regard to this complex and protracted litigated matter,
      however, defendants, including Ocwen, entered into a
      definitive written agreement with plaintiffs’ counsel
      with respect to a class settlement. Ocwen’s portion of
      the proposed settlement payment is $5.2 million plus certain
      other non-cash consideration and administrative costs. On
      July 1, 2011, the Court granted final approval to this class
      settlement. Defendants, including Ocwen, have paid their
      respective portions of the settlement into escrow and notice
      of the settlement has been provided to potential class
      members. On July 6, 2011, the Court entered final judgment
      and no appeals were filed. While there are some claims that
      are subject to opt-outs by individual plaintiffs, these are
      not viewed as material at this time.
    

       
    

      In September 2006, the Bankruptcy Trustee in Chapter 7
      proceedings involving American Business Financial Services,
      Inc. (ABFS) brought an action against multiple defendants,
      including Ocwen, in Bankruptcy Court. The action arises out
      of Debtor-in-Possession financing to ABFS by defendant
      Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. and the subsequent
      purchases by Ocwen of MSRs and certain residual interests in
      mortgage-backed securities previously held by ABFS. The
      Trustee filed an amended complaint in March 2007 alleging
      various claims against Ocwen including turnover, fraudulent
      transfers, accounting, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and
      abetting breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, fraud,
      civil conspiracy and conversion. The Trustee seeks
      compensatory damages in excess of $100 million and punitive
      damages jointly and severally against all defendants. In
      April 2008, Ocwen filed an answer denying all charges and a
      counterclaim for breach of contract, fraud, negligent
      misrepresentation and indemnification in connection with the
      MSR purchase transaction. Fact discovery is complete and both
      Ocwen and the Trustee have filed motions for partial summary
      judgment. We believe that the Trustee’s allegations
      against Ocwen are without merit and intend to continue to
      vigorously defend against this matter. We are unable to
      provide any estimate of possible loss or range of possible
      loss at this time.
    

       
    




              25
              








               
            




       
    

      We are subject to various other pending legal proceedings,
      including those subject to loss sharing provisions of the
      Litton Acquisition and Saxon Acquisition more fully described
      in Note 2 and Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements. In our opinion, the resolution of those
      proceedings will not have a material effect on our financial
      condition, results of operations or cash flows.
    

       
    

      Ocwen is subject to various other pending legal proceedings,
      including those related to the loss sharing provisions of the
      Litton Acquisition. In our opinion, the resolution of those
      proceedings will not have a material effect on our financial
      condition, results of operations or cash flows.
    

       
    



ITEM 4.


MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES




       
    

      Not applicable.
    

       
    

PART II
    

       
    



ITEM 5.


MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY
            SECURITIES




       
    

      Price Range of the Company’s Common Stock
    

       
    

      The common stock of Ocwen Financial Corporation is traded
      under the symbol “OCN” on the New York Stock
      Exchange (NYSE). The following table sets forth the high and
      low closing sales prices for our common stock:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            High
          

             
          

             
          

            Low
          

             
          



            2011
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            First quarter
          

             
          

            $
          

            11.04
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            9.50
          

             
          



            Second quarter
          

             
          

             
          

            12.76
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10.62
          

             
          



            Third quarter
          

             
          

             
          

            13.80
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11.24
          

             
          



            Fourth quarter
          

             
          

             
          

            14.73
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12.06
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            2010
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            First quarter
          

             
          

            $
          

            11.36
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            9.07
          

             
          



            Second quarter
          

             
          

             
          

            12.45
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10.09
          

             
          



            Third quarter
          

             
          

             
          

            10.74
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8.77
          

             
          



            Fourth quarter
          

             
          

             
          

            10.20
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8.48
          

             
          



       
    

      The closing sales price of our common stock on February 23,
      2012 was $15.68.
    

       
    

      We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common
      stock. We currently do not intend to pay cash dividends in
      the foreseeable future but intend to reinvest earnings in our
      business. The timing and amount of any future dividends will
      be determined by our Board of Directors and will depend,
      among other factors, upon our earnings, financial condition,
      cash requirements, the capital requirements of subsidiaries
      and investment opportunities at the time any such payment is
      considered. In addition, the Guaranty agreement with the OTS
      and the indentures and covenants relating to certain of our
      borrowings contain limitations on our payment of dividends.
      Our Board of Directors has no obligation to declare dividends
      under Florida law or our amended and restated articles of
      incorporation. See Note 29 to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements for additional information regarding limitations
      on the payment of dividends on our common stock.
    

       
    




              26
              








               
            




       
    

      The following graph compares the cumulative total return on
      the common stock of Ocwen Financial Corporation since
      December 31, 2006, with the cumulative total return on the
      stocks included in Standard & Poor’s 500 Market
      Index and Standard & Poor’s Diversified Financials
      Market Index.
    

 





       
    



            (1)
          

            Excludes the significant value distributed in 2009 to
            Ocwen investors in the form of Altisource common
            equity.
          



       
    

      Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliates
    

       
    

      We did not purchase any shares of our own common stock during
      2011.
    

 


      Our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock is
      restricted under the terms of the Guaranty that we entered
      into with the OTS in connection with debanking. See Note 29
      to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
      information regarding the terms of the Guaranty. The $575
      million senior secured term loan agreement that we entered on
      September 1, 2011 also limits our ability to repurchase
      shares of our common stock. See Note 16 to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements for additional information regarding the
      terms of this loan.
    

       
    

      Number of Holders of Common Stock
    

       
    

      At February 23, 2012, 130,040,763 shares of our common stock
      were outstanding and held by approximately 101 holders of
      record. Such number of stockholders does not reflect the
      number of individuals or institutional investors holding our
      stock in nominee name through banks, brokerage firms and
      others.
    

       
    

      Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation
      Plans
    

       
    

      The information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under
      the caption “Equity Compensation Plan
      Information” is incorporated herein by reference.
    

       
    




              27
              








               
            




       
    



ITEM 6.


SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (Dollars in thousands,
            except per share data and unless otherwise
            indicated)




       
    

      The following tables present selected consolidated financial
      information of Ocwen and its subsidiaries at the dates and
      for the years indicated. Our historical balance sheet and
      operations data at and for the five years ended December 31,
      2011 have been derived from our audited financial statements.
    

       
    

      We have reclassified certain amounts included in the selected
      financial data for prior years to conform to the 2011
      presentation.
    

       
    

      The selected consolidated financial information should be
      read in conjunction with the information we have provided in
      Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results of Operations, the Consolidated
      Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            December 31,
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2011 (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            2010 (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            2009 (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            2008
          

             
          

             
          

            2007
          

             
          



            Selected Balance Sheet Data
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            144,234
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            127,796
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            90,919
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            201,025
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            114,243
          

             
          



            Restricted cash – for securitization investors
            (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            675
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            727
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Trading securities, at fair value:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Auction rate (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            247,464
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            239,301
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Other investment grade securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            34,876
          

             
          



            Subordinates and residuals (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,692
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,369
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,362
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale, at lower of cost or fair value
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,197
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            49,918
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            75,240
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            103,591
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            184,833
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            145,914
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            102,085
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            292,887
          

             
          



            Match funded advances
          

             
          

             
          

            3,629,911
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,924,052
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            822,615
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,100,555
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,126,097
          

             
          



            Loans, net – restricted for securitization 
            investors (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            58,560
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,340
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            293,152
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            193,985
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            117,802
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            139,500
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            197,295
          

             
          



            Deferred tax assets, net
          

             
          

             
          

            107,968
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            138,716
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            132,683
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            175,145
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            175,669
          

             
          



            Goodwill and other intangibles
          

             
          

             
          

            78,432
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,810
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            46,227
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            58,301
          

             
          



            Investment in unconsolidated entities
          

             
          

             
          

            23,507
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,072
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,008
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,663
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            76,465
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            276,494
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            233,275
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            160,056
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            153,312
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            233,489
          

             
          



            Total assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,737,157
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,921,409
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,769,350
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,237,100
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,391,924
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,558,951
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,482,529
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            465,691
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            961,939
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,001,403
          

             
          



            Secured borrowings – owed to securitization
            investors (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            53,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,705
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Debt securities, lines of credit and other secured
            borrowings:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Short-term
          

             
          

             
          

            59,296
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            51,085
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,979
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            182,860
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            339,976
          

             
          



            Long-term
          

             
          

             
          

            563,627
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            277,542
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            143,395
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,377
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            143,111
          

             
          



            Investment line (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            156,968
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            200,719
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            158,649
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            142,731
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            129,454
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            214,564
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            314,913
          

             
          



            Total liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            3,393,846
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,016,592
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            903,487
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,627,459
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,799,403
          

             
          



            Ocwen Financial Corporation stockholders’ equity
            (4) (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            1,343,311
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            904,571
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            865,611
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            609,235
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            590,542
          

             
          



            Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            246
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            252
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            406
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,979
          

             
          



            Total equity
          

             
          

             
          

            1,343,311
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            904,817
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            865,863
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            609,641
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            592,521
          

             
          



            Total liabilities and equity
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,737,157
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,921,409
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,769,350
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,237,100
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,391,924
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Residential Loans and Real Estate Serviced for Others
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Count
          

             
          

             
          

            671,623
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            479,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            351,595
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            322,515
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            435,616
          

             
          



            Amount
          

             
          

            $
          

            102,199,222
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            73,886,391
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            49,980,077
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            40,171,532
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            53,545,985
          

             
          



       
    




              28
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          

            For the Years Ended December 31,
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2011 (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            2010 (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            2009 (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            2008
          

             
          

             
          

            2007
          

             
          



            Selected Operations Data
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Revenue:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing and subservicing fees
          

             
          

            $
          

            458,875
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            321,699
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            264,467
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            368,026
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            379,277
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            37,055
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38,682
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            116,261
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            124,102
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            101,384
          

             
          



            Total revenue
          

             
          

             
          

            495,930
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            360,381
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            380,728
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            492,128
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            480,661
          

             
          



            Operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            239,584
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            236,474
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            235,654
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            323,355
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            351,866
          

             
          



            Income from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            256,346
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            123,907
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            145,074
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            168,773
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            128,795
          

             
          



            Other income (expense):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest income
          

             
          

             
          

            8,876
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,859
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,786
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            14,696
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            29,651
          

             
          



            Interest expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (132,770
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (85,923
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (62,954
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (86,574
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (76,586
          

            )
          



            Other, net (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,457
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,689
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            2,355
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (65,913
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (27,306
          

            )
          



            Other expense, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (133,351
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (84,753
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (51,813
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (137,791
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (74,241
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations before income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            122,995
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            39,154
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            93,261
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            30,982
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            54,554
          

             
          



            Income tax expense
          

             
          

             
          

            44,672
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,545
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            96,110
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,006
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,186
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,609
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,849
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            18,976
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            39,368
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from discontinued operations,  net
            of taxes (7)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,383
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,767
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,172
          

            )
          



            Net income
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,992
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            272
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            13,209
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            36,196
          

             
          



            Net loss (income) attributable to non-controlling
            interests
          

             
          

             
          

            8
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            41
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (92
          

            )
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,331
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,984
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            297
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            13,250
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            36,104
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic earnings per share
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.75
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.34
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.04
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.30
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.63
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from discontinued  operations (7)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (0.09
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (0.05
          

            )
          



            Net income
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.75
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.38
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.21
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.58
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Diluted earnings per share
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.71
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.32
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.04
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.30
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.62
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from discontinued  operations (7)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (0.09
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (0.05
          

            )
          



            Net income
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.71
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.36
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.21
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.57
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Weighted average common shares outstanding
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic
          

             
          

             
          

            104,507,055
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100,273,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,670,957
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,712,076
          

             
          



            Diluted (8)
          

             
          

             
          

            111,855,961
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            107,483,015
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,935,314
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            63,496,339
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Our acquisition of the Litton Loan Servicing Business
            on September 1, 2011 resulted in the acquisition of a
            servicing portfolio of approximately 245,000 primarily
            non-prime residential mortgage loans with approximately
            $38.6 billion in UPB. The adjusted base purchase price
            for the Litton Acquisition was $247,368. In addition,
            Ocwen repaid at closing Litton’s $2,423,123
            outstanding debt on an existing servicing advance
            financing facility and entered into a new advance
            financing facility under which it borrowed $2,126,742.
            Ocwen also used the proceeds from a new $575,000 senior
            secured term loan facility agreement to fund the
            acquisition.Total identifiable net assets
            acquired were $2,604,869, including MSRs of $144,314
            and advances of $2,468,137. We also acquired goodwill
            of $65,622 and assumed liabilities of $40,588. Revenues
            and operating expenses of Litton Loan Servicing from
            the acquisition date of September 1, 2011 through
            December 31, 2011 were $62,750 and $58,017,
            respectively. Operating expenses for this period
            consist primarily of non-recurring costs related to the
            acquisition (such as employee severance) and
            amortization of MSRs. These operating expenses do not
            include an allocation of costs related to the servicing
            of Litton Loan Servicing loans on Ocwen’s
            platform. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
            Statements for additional information.
          



       
    




              29
              








               
            




       
    



            (2)
          

            We completed the acquisition of HomEq Servicing on
            September 1, 2010 and boarded approximately 134,000
            residential mortgage loans with an aggregate UPB of
            approximately $22,400,000. We acquired HomEq Servicing
            for total consideration of $1,165,673, of which
            $852,617 was funded by a new match funded servicing
            advance facility with the remainder primarily borrowed
            under a new $350,000 senior secured term loan. Total
            identifiable net assets acquired were $1,162,189,
            including MSRs of $84,324 and advances of $1,063,180.
            We also acquired goodwill of $12,810. Revenues and
            operating expenses of HomEq Servicing from the
            acquisition date of September 1, 2010 through December
            31, 2010 were $43,127 and $56,725, respectively.
            Operating expenses for this period consist principally
            of non-recurring costs related to the acquisition
            (including employee severance and lease termination
            costs) and the amortization of MSRs. These operating
            expenses do not include an allocation of costs related
            to the servicing of HomEq Servicing loans on
            Ocwen’s platform. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
            Financial Statements for additional information.
          



            (3)
          

            On August 10, 2009, we completed the Separation by
            distributing all of the shares of Altisource common
            stock to Ocwen shareholders in the form of a pro rata
            stock distribution. As a result of the Separation, we
            eliminated $88,478 of assets (including goodwill and
            other intangibles) and $16,332 of liabilities from our
            consolidated balance sheet effective at the close of
            business on August 9, 2009 and recorded a $72,146
            reduction in additional paid-in capital. Beginning
            August 10, 2009, the operating results of Altisource
            are no longer included in our operating results. The
            Separation contributed significantly to the declines in
            revenues, operating expenses, income from operations
            and income from continuing operations. As a consequence
            of the Separation and related transactions, Ocwen
            recognized $52,047 of income tax expense in 2009.
            Excluding the revenues earned by GSS and intersegment
            revenues of OS that were eliminated in consolidation,
            OS revenues were $106,257, $146,166 and $125,222 for
            the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
            respectively. Excluding the expenses of GSS and BMS and
            intersegment expenses of OS that were eliminated in
            consolidation, OS operating expenses were $91,847,
            $143,135 and $124,837 for the years ended December 31,
            2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
          



            (4)
          

            As a result of our adoption of Accounting Standards
            Update (ASU) 2009-16 (Accounting Standards Codification
            (ASC) 860, Transfers and Servicing) and ASU 2009-17
            (ASC 810, Consolidation) on January 1, 2010 we began
            consolidating four residential mortgage loan
            securitization trusts that were previously excluded
            from our consolidated financial statements because each
            trust was a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE).
            See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
            additional information.
          



            (5)
          

            During 2010 we liquidated our remaining investment in
            auction rate securities and used the proceeds to repay
            the investment line. Net realized and unrealized gains
            (losses) on auction rate securities were $(7,919),
            $11,863 and $(29,612) during 2010, 2009 and 2008,
            respectively.
          



            (6)
          

            On November 9, 2011, Ocwen completed the public
            offering of 28,750,000 shares of common stock at a per
            share price of $13.00 and received net proceeds of
            $354,445. On August 18, 2009, Ocwen completed the
            public offering of 32,200,000 shares of common stock at
            a per share price of $9.00 and received net proceeds of
            $274,964. On April 3, 2009, Ocwen sold 5,471,500 shares
            of its common stock for a price of $11.00 per share and
            realized $60,165 in net proceeds in a private placement
            transaction and used a portion of the proceeds to
            acquire 1,000,000 shares from its chairman at a price
            of $11.00 per share.
          



            (7)
          

            On December 3, 2009, we completed the sale of our
            investment in BOK. We have reported the results of
            operations of BOK in the consolidated financial
            statements as discontinued operations. Income from
            discontinued operations for 2010 represents a true-up
            of Ocwen’s income tax expense on the sale of BOK.
          



            (8)
          

            Conversion of the Convertible Notes to common stock was
            not assumed for 2009, 2008 and 2007 because the effect
            was antidilutive. Interest expense on the Convertible
            Notes, net of income tax, has been added to net income
            for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share
            for 2011 and 2010.
          



       
    



ITEM 7.


MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
            FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Dollars
            in thousands, unless otherwise indicated)




       
    

      INTRODUCTION
    

       
    

      Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2011,
      2010 and 2009 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates,
      as the context requires, December 31, 2011, December 31, 2010
      and December 31, 2009, respectively.
    

       
    

      The following discussion of our results of operations,
      financial condition and capital resources and liquidity
      should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial
      Statements and the related notes, all included elsewhere in
      this annual report on Form 10-K.
    

       
    




              30
              








               
            




       
    

      OVERVIEW
    

       
    

      Operations Summary
    

       
    

      The Litton Acquisition on September 1, 2011, the HomEq
      Acquisition on September 1, 2010 and the Altisource
      Separation on August 10, 2009 have significantly impacted our
      consolidated operating results. The operating results of the
      Litton Loan Servicing and HomEq Servicing businesses are
      included in the Servicing segment since their respective
      acquisition dates. Effective with the Separation, Ocwen
      ceased to record operating results from the Mortgage
      Services, Financial Services and Technology Products
      segments.
    

       
    

      The following table summarizes our consolidated operating
      results for the years indicated. We have provided a more
      complete discussion of operating results in the Segments
      section.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            For the years ended December 31,
          

             
          

             
          

            % Change
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          

             
          

            2011 to 2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2010 to 2009
          

             
          



            Consolidated:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Revenue (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            495,930
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            360,381
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            380,728
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            (5
          

            )%
          



            Operating expenses (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            239,584
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            236,474
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            235,654
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Income from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            256,346
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            123,907
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            145,074
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            107
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (15
          

            )
          



            Other expense, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (133,351
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (84,753
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (51,813
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            57
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            64
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations before taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            122,995
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            39,154
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            93,261
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            214
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (58
          

            )
          



            Income tax expense
          

             
          

             
          

            44,672
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,545
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            96,110
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            706
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (94
          

            )
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,609
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,849
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            133
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,280
          

            )
          



            Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,383
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (100
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            40
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,992
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            272
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            106
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            13,868
          

             
          



            Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling
            interests
          

             
          

             
          

            8
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (200
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (132
          

            )
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,331
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,984
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            297
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            106
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,689
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Segment income (loss) from continuing operations before
            taxes:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            135,880
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,195
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            87,681
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            74
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            (11
          

            )%
          



            Mortgage Services
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            17,815
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (100
          

            )
          



            Financial Services
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,969
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (100
          

            )
          



            Technology Products
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,590
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (100
          

            )
          



            Corporate Items and Other
          

             
          

             
          

            (12,885
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (39,041
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (15,856
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (67
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            146
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            122,995
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            39,154
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            93,261
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            214
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (58
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Excluding the revenues earned by GSS and intersegment
            revenues of OS that were eliminated in consolidation,
            OS revenues were $106,257 for the year ended December
            31, 2009.
          



            (2)
          

            Excluding the expenses of GSS and BMS and intersegment
            expenses of OS that were eliminated in consolidation,
            OS operating expenses were $91,847 for the year ended
            December 31, 2009.
          



 


2011 versus 2010. Residential servicing and
      subservicing fees were higher in 2011 as a result of loan
      modifications and the 36% growth in the average servicing
      portfolio that included approximately $38.6 billion acquired
      on September 1, 2011 related to the Litton Acquisition and
      the effect of the HomEq portfolio for a full year in 2011 as
      compared to four months in 2010.
    

       
    

      Operating expenses increased slightly in 2011. Higher
      amortization of MSRs and the effects of a substantial
      increase in staffing to service the larger portfolio were
      largely offset by lower non-recurring expenses related to the
      Litton Acquisition as compared to those incurred in
      connection with the HomEq Acquisition in 2010 and a decline
      in litigation-related expenses. Non-recurring expenses
      related to the Litton Acquisition were $50,340 in 2011 versus
      $52,603 for the HomEq Acquisition in 2010. In addition,
      litigation-related expenses were higher during 2010 due to
      $26,882 of litigation expense incurred in connection with the
      adverse verdict in a vendor dispute and the settlement of the
      MDL Proceeding. Income from operations increased by $132,439,
      or 107%, in 2011 as compared to 2010.
    

       
    




              31
              








               
            






       
    

      Other expense, net increased by $48,598 primarily due to an
      increase of $42,543 in interest expense on borrowings related
      to the HomEq and Litton acquisitions, including the write-off
      of $12,575 of unamortized discount and deferred debt issuance
      costs as the result of the prepayment of $180,000 on the
      $350,000 senior secured term loan. Also affecting Other
      expense, net are $7,426 of losses on derivatives in 2011,
      including $6,104 of unrealized losses on foreign exchange
      forward contracts that we entered into to hedge against the
      effects of changes in the value of the Indian Rupee. Also,
      2010 includes $6,036 of gains related to affordable housing
      investments that we sold. These increases in other expense
      were partly offset by $3,651 of gains on extinguishment of
      debt in 2011 and the effects of $7,909 of realized and
      unrealized losses on auction rate securities and a $3,000
      write-off of a commercial real estate investment in 2010.
    

       
    

      Income tax expense recognized in 2010 was reduced by the
      release of a reserve predominantly related to deductions
      associated with a servicing advance finance structure and
      statute expirations. The reserve for this item was recorded
      in 2009.
    

       
    

2010 versus 2009. Residential servicing fees were
      higher than 2009 as a result of fees from HAMP modifications
      and the effects of $32.2 billion of UPB additions to the
      Servicing portfolio including approximately $22.4 billion on
      September 1, 2010 related to the HomEq Acquisition and $6.9
      billion added by the Saxon MSR Acquisition in the second
      quarter. However, process management fees and other revenues
      declined as a result of the Separation. Operating expenses
      increased slightly in 2010 despite the Separation because of
      non-recurring expenses of $52,603 associated with the HomEq
      Acquisition and because of litigation expense of $26,882
      incurred in connection with the Cartel verdict and the
      proposed settlement of the MDL Proceeding. Income from
      operations declined by $21,167, or 15%, in 2010 as compared
      to 2009.
    

       
    

      Other expense, net increased due to higher interest expense
      on borrowings related to the HomEq Acquisition of $31,915 and
      realized losses on sales of our remaining auction rate
      securities of $5,903. Other expense, net also includes a
      $3,000 write-off of a commercial real estate investment.
      These increases in expenses were partially offset by gains of
      $6,036 from the sale of our 1% general partnership interests
      in three affordable housing projects during the fourth
      quarter.
    

       
    

      Income from continuing operations before income taxes was
      $39,154 for 2010 as compared to $93,261 for 2009. The former
      OS segments were included in our results through August 9,
      2009 and generated Income from continuing operations before
      income taxes of $12,836 for the year ended December 31, 2009.
    

       
    

      The provision for income taxes was reduced by the effect of
      the reversal of $9,126 of reserves related to income taxes.
      The net loss for 2009 includes the $52,047 income tax effect
      associated with the Separation. Discontinued operations for
      2010 includes an income tax benefit of $4,383 recorded in the
      third quarter related to our recognition of additional tax
      losses on our former investment in BOK.
    

       
    

      Change in Financial Condition Summary
    

       
    

      The overall increase in our assets of $1,815,748 or 62%
      during 2011 was principally the result of the following
      changes:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Cash increased by $16,438.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Total advances increased by $1,624,617 due primarily to
            $2,468,137 of advances acquired in connection with the
            Litton Acquisition offset in part by a reduction in
            advances on the pre-existing portfolio.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            MSRs increased by $99,167 due primarily to purchase of
            $144,314 related to the Litton acquisition, offset by
            amortization expense of $45,721.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Receivables increased by $13,684 due primarily to a
            $17,898 increase in current income taxes receivable.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Goodwill increased by $65,622 as a result of the Litton
            Acquisition.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Investments in unconsolidated entities increased by
            $11,435 due primarily to the $15,000 investment in
            Correspondent One offset in part by distributions
            received from asset management entities.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Other assets increased by $27,660 primarily as a result
            of a $29,633 increase in debt service accounts as a
            result of the new Litton advance financing facility
            offset by the repayment of a $5,600 note receivable.
            The $13,147 of debt issuance costs we incurred in
            connection with the new $575,000 senior secured loan
            was offset in part by the write-off of the remaining
            debt issuance costs related to the $350,000 senior
            secured term loan entered into in connection with the
            HomEq Acquisition which we fully repaid in 2011.
          



       
    




              32
              








               
            




       
    

      Liabilities increased by $1,377,254, or 68%, during 2011
      primarily because of the following items:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Match funded liabilities increased by $1,076,422
            reflecting $2,126,742 of notes issued in connection
            with the financing of advances that we acquired as part
            of the Litton Acquisition, of which $1,784,043 was
            outstanding at December 31, 2011. This was partially
            offset by repayments of $428,271 on the HomEq advance
            facility and $279,350 of paydowns on other facilities.
            We used the $354,445 of net proceeds from our common
            stock offering in November 2011 to temporarily reduce
            our borrowings to fund advances rather than invest the
            proceeds at current short-term investment rates that
            our below our effective cost of borrowing. We increased
            our advance borrowings in 2012 in order to release
            these proceeds to fund servicing acquisitions.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings increased
            by $294,296 primarily due to the $575,000 senior
            secured term loan facility that we entered into in
            connection with the Litton Acquisition net of an
            $11,500 discount. This increase was offset by principal
            payments of $197,500 to repay the $350,000 senior
            secured term loan facility, $48,000 to repay the fee
            reimbursement advance facility and $28,750 of mandatory
            repayments on the new senior secured term loan. The
            repayment of the HomEq senior secured term loan
            resulted in the write-off of the remaining discount in
            2011.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Other liabilities increased by $15,918 primarily due to
            the liabilities we assumed and subsequently incurred in
            connection with the Litton Acquisition. This increase
            was offset in part by a decline in litigation reserves
            related to settled cases and the write-off of deferred
            income related to the fee reimbursement advance
            facility that we repaid in 2011.
          



       
    

      Liquidity Summary
    

       
    

      We define liquidity as unencumbered cash balances plus
      unused, collateralized advance financing capacity. Our
      liquidity as of December 31, 2011, as measured by cash and
      available credit, was $551,067, an increase of $294,177, or
      115%, from December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, our cash
      position was $144,234 compared to $127,796 at December 31,
      2010. Our available credit on collateralized but unused
      advance financing capacity increased to $406,833 at December
      31, 2011 compared to $129,095 at December 31, 2010. The
      increase in available credit was principally the result of
      our use of the net proceeds from our common stock offering to
      temporarily reduce borrowings and an increase in the amount
      of collateral eligible to be pledged under one of our
      facilities. These increases were partially offset by our
      success reducing advances from December 31, 2010 which
      resulted in a lower amount of advances pledged to our advance
      financing facilities.
    

       
    

      Our investment policies emphasize principal preservation by
      limiting investments to include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Securities issued by the U.S. government, a U.S. agency
            or a U.S. GSE
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Money market mutual funds
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Money market demand deposits
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Demand deposit accounts
          



       
    

      We regularly monitor and project cash flow to minimize
      liquidity risk. In assessing our liquidity outlook, our
      primary focus is on maintaining cash and unused borrowing
      capacity that is sufficient to meet the needs of the
      business.
    

       
    

      At December 31, 2011, $1,565,520 of our total maximum
      borrowing capacity remained unused. However, as noted above,
      the amount of collateral pledged to these facilities limits
      additional borrowing, and only $406,833 of this amount is
      readily available. We may utilize the unused borrowing
      capacity in the Servicing business in the future by pledging
      additional qualifying collateral to these facilities. In
      order to reduce fees charged by lenders (which we recognize
      as interest expense), we maintain unused borrowing capacity
      at a level that we consider prudent relative to the current
      levels of advances and match funded advances and to meet our
      funding needs for reasonably foreseeable changes in advances.
    

       
    

      Interest Rate Risk Summary
    

       
    

      Interest rate risk is a function of (i) the timing of
      re-pricing and (ii) the dollar amount of assets and
      liabilities that re-price at various times. We are exposed to
      interest rate risk to the extent that our interest rate
      sensitive liabilities mature or re-price at different speeds,
      or on different bases, than interest-earning assets.
    

       
    

      We have executed a hedging strategy aimed at largely
      neutralizing the impact of changes in interest rates within a
      certain period based on the projected excess of variable rate
      debt over cash and float balances. As of December 31, 2011,
      the notional amount of our outstanding hedges was less than
      the net exposure of projected variable rate debt and cash and
      float balances for the next several years. Future variances
      between the projected excess of variable rate debt over cash
      and float balances and actual results could result in our
      becoming over-hedged or under-hedged. See Note 19 to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
      regarding our use of derivatives.
    

       
    

      CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
    

       
    

      Our ability to measure and report our operating results and
      financial position is heavily influenced by the need to
      estimate the impact or outcome of future events. Our critical
      accounting policies relate to the estimation and measurement
      of these risks. Because they inherently involve significant
      judgments and uncertainties, an understanding of these
      policies is fundamental to understanding Management’s
      Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
      Financial Condition. The following is a summary of our more
      subjective and complex accounting policies as they relate to
      our overall business strategy.
    

       
    




              33
              








               
            




       
    

      Valuation and Amortization of Residential Mortgage Servicing
      Rights
    

       
    

      Our most significant business is our Servicing business. MSRs
      are an intangible asset that represents the right to service
      a portfolio of mortgage loans. We generally obtain MSRs by
      purchasing them from the owners of the mortgage loans. As of
      December 31, 2011, we held residential MSRs with a carrying
      value of $293,152 and an estimated fair value of $340,015.
    

       
    

      We account for our residential MSRs using the amortization
      method. All newly acquired MSRs are initially measured at
      fair value. We amortize the balance of servicing assets or
      liabilities in proportion to and over the period of estimated
      net servicing income or net servicing loss and assess
      servicing assets or liabilities for impairment or increased
      obligation based on fair value at each reporting date. We
      determine estimated net servicing income using the estimated
      future balance of the underlying mortgage loan portfolio,
      which, absent new purchases, declines over time from
      prepayments and scheduled loan amortization. We adjust
      amortization prospectively in response to changes in
      projections of future cash flows.
    

       
    

      We group the loans that we service into strata based on one
      or more of the predominant risk characteristics of the
      underlying loans. The risk factors used to assign loans to
      strata include the credit score (FICO) of the borrower, the
      loan to value ratio and the default risk. Our primary strata
      include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Subprime
          



             
          

            ·
          

            ALT A
          



             
          

            ·
          

            High-loan-to-value
          



       
    

      We estimate the fair value of our MSRs by calculating the
      present value of expected future cash flows utilizing
      assumptions that we believe are used by market participants.
      The significant components of the estimated future cash flows
      for MSRs include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Rate at which UPB declines
          

             
          

·


            Interest rate used for computing the cost of servicing
            advances
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Servicing fees and ancillary income
          

             
          

·


            Delinquencies
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Cost of servicing
          

             
          

·


            Interest rate used for computing float earnings
          



             
          

·


            Discount rate
          

             
          

            ·
          

            Compensating interest expense
          



       
    

      We also generate internal valuations for management purposes
      that use the same inputs but reference our historical
      experience rather than assumptions based on the experience of
      other industry participants.
    

       
    

      The following table provides the range of prepayment speed
      and delinquency assumptions (expressed as a percentage of
      UPB) by strata projected for the five-year period beginning
      December 31, 2011:
    

       
    



             
          


               
            



              Prepayment Speed
            



               
            



              Delinquency
            




            Subprime
          

             
          

            13.49%–21.63%
          

             
          

            15.80% – 25.68%
          



            ALT A
          

             
          

            13.35% – 22.01%
          

             
          

            13.27% – 21.25%
          



            High-loan-to-value
          

             
          

            24.93% – 62.50%
          

             
          

            8.87% – 11.21%
          



       
    

      The primary assumptions we use to estimate the fair value of
      MSRs by strata as of December 31, 2011 include the cost of
      financing advances (1-month LIBOR plus 4%), float earnings
      (1-month LIBOR), a 20% discount rate and the cost of
      servicing (representing industry averages, which vary by
      strata and ranged from $110 (in dollars) per year for a
      performing ALT A loan to $1,500 (in dollars) per year for a
      loan in foreclosure).
    

       
    

      Changes in these assumptions are generally expected to affect
      our results of operations as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Increases in prepayment speeds generally reduce the
            value of our MSRs as the underlying loans prepay faster
            which causes accelerated MSR amortization, higher
            compensating interest payments and lower overall
            servicing fees, partially offset by a lower overall
            cost of servicing, increased float earnings on higher
            float balances and lower interest expense on decreased
            servicing advance balances.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Increases in delinquencies generally reduce the value
            of our MSRs as the cost of servicing increases during
            the delinquency period, and the amounts of servicing
            advances and related interest expense also increase.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Increases in the discount rate reduce the value of our
            MSRs due to the lower overall net present value of the
            net cash flows.
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Increases in interest rate assumptions will increase
            interest expense for financing servicing advances
            although this effect is partially offset because rate
            increases will also increase the amount of float
            earnings we recognize.
          



       
    




              34
              








               
            




       
    

      We perform an impairment analysis of our MSRs by strata based
      on the difference between the carrying amount and estimated
      fair value. To the extent the estimated fair value is less
      than the carrying amount for any strata we recognize an
      impairment valuation allowance.
    

       
    

      Deferred Tax Assets
    

       
    

      The use of estimates and the application of judgment are
      involved in the determination of our overall tax provision
      and the evaluation of the realizability of our gross deferred
      tax assets. As of December 31, 2011, we had gross deferred
      tax assets of $115,158 and gross deferred tax liabilities of
      $7,190 resulting in a net deferred tax asset of $107,968. We
      conduct periodic evaluations of positive and negative
      evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that
      the deferred tax asset can be realized in future periods.
      Among the factors considered in this evaluation are estimates
      of future taxable income, future reversals of temporary
      differences, tax character (ordinary versus capital) and the
      impact of tax planning strategies that may be implemented if
      warranted. We assess the amount of the valuation allowance
      each quarter. As a result of this evaluation, we concluded
      that no valuation allowance was necessary at December 31,
      2011.
    

       
    

      Goodwill
    

       
    

      We test goodwill for impairment annually or sooner if an
      event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely
      than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
      net carrying value. Effective with our adoption of ASU
      2011-08 (ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other):
      Testing Goodwill for Impairment in the fourth quarter of
      2011, we have the option of performing a qualitative
      assessment of impairment to determine whether any further
      quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. Factors
      that we consider in the qualitative assessment include
      general economic conditions, conditions of the industry and
      market in which we operate, regulatory developments, cost
      factors and our overall financial performance. If we elect to
      bypass the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on the
      basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the
      reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying
      value, a two-step quantitative test is required. Under the
      two-step impairment test, we evaluate the recoverability of
      goodwill by comparing the estimated fair value of each
      reporting unit with its estimated net carrying value
      (including goodwill). We derive the fair value of reporting
      units based on valuation techniques that we believe market
      participants would use (discounted cash flow valuation
      methodology).
    

       
    

      Our qualitative and quantitative goodwill impairment testing
      involves the use of estimates and the exercise of judgment on
      the part of management. From time to time, we may obtain
      assistance from third parties in our quantitative evaluation.
      The discounted cash flow valuation methodology uses
      projections of future cash flows and includes assumptions
      concerning future operating performance, discount rates and
      economic conditions that may differ from actual future
      results achieved. In projecting our cash flows, we use
      projected growth rates or, where applicable, the projected
      prepayment rate. For the discount rate, we use a rate which
      reflects our weighted average cost of capital determined
      based on our industry and size risk premiums based on our
      market capitalization.
    

       
    

      At December 31, 2011, the $78,432 balance of goodwill is
      comprised of $12,810 related to the HomEq Acquisition on
      September 1, 2010 and $65,622 related to the Litton
      Acquisition on September 1, 2011, both of which are included
      in the Servicing segment. We perform our annual impairment
      test of goodwill as of August 31st of each year.
      Based on our 2011 annual assessment, we determined that
      goodwill was not impaired. Beginning in 2012, our annual
      impairment test will include the goodwill related to the
      Litton Acquisition.
    

       
    

      Litigation
    

       
    

      We monitor our litigation matters, including advice from
      external legal counsel, and regularly perform assessments of
      these matters for potential loss accrual and disclosure. We
      establish reserves for settlements, judgments on appeal and
      filed and/or threatened claims for which we believe it is
      probable that a loss has been or will be incurred and the
      amount can be reasonably estimated.
    

       
    

      SEGMENT RESULTS and FINANCIAL CONDITION
    

       
    

      For the Servicing segment and for Corporate Items and Other,
      the following section discusses the changes in financial
      condition during the year ended December 31, 2011 and the
      pre-tax results of operations for the annual periods ended
      December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Our former Loans and
      Residuals segment and Asset Management Vehicles segment are
      included in Corporate Items and Other effective January 1,
      2011. Due to the Separation, neither the assets and
      liabilities, nor the operations of the Mortgage Services,
      Financial Services and Technology Products segments are
      included in our financial results subsequent to August 10,
      2009. We have restated segment results for the 2010 and 2009
      periods to conform to the current segment structure.
    

       
    




              35
              








               
            




       
    

      Servicing
    

       
    

      The following table presents selected results of operations
      of our Servicing segment for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          



            Revenue
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing and subservicing fees:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Residential
          

             
          

            $
          

            453,627
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            319,290
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            231,715
          

             
          



            Commercial
          

             
          

             
          

            6,390
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,736
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,044
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            460,017
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            323,026
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            233,759
          

             
          



            Process management fees
          

             
          

             
          

            34,233
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,685
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38,965
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            621
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,087
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1
          

             
          



            Total revenue
          

             
          

             
          

            494,871
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            359,798
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            272,725
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Compensation and benefits
          

             
          

             
          

            79,076
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,447
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,256
          

             
          



            Amortization of servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            42,996
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,455
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,228
          

             
          



            Servicing and origination
          

             
          

             
          

            8,155
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,396
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,071
          

             
          



            Technology and communications
          

             
          

             
          

            28,188
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            19,896
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            14,215
          

             
          



            Professional services
          

             
          

             
          

            15,203
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            13,874
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,095
          

             
          



            Occupancy and equipment
          

             
          

             
          

            20,609
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            29,234
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,848
          

             
          



            Other operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            37,011
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,806
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            23,539
          

             
          



            Total operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            231,238
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            200,108
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            129,252
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            263,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            159,690
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            143,473
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Other income (expense)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest income
          

             
          

             
          

            110
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            207
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            266
          

             
          



            Interest expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (132,574
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (80,514
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (59,458
          

            )
          



            Gain (loss) on debt redemption
          

             
          

             
          

            3,651
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (571
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,600
          

             
          



            Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            1,060
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (617
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,800
          

             
          



            Total other expense, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (127,753
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (81,495
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (55,792
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations before income taxes
          

             
          

            $
          

            135,880
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,195
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            87,681
          

             
          



       
    




              36
              








               
            




       
    

      The following table provides selected operating statistics at
      or for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            Change from
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          

             
          

            2010 to 2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2009 to 2010
          

             
          



            Residential Assets Serviced
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Unpaid principal balance:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Performing loans (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            71,900,689
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            52,071,145
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            35,090,126
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            48
          

            %
          



            Non-performing loans
          

             
          

             
          

            24,097,130
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,903,038
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,638,689
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            52
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37
          

             
          



            Non-performing real estate
          

             
          

             
          

            6,201,403
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,912,208
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,251,262
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82
          

             
          



            Total residential assets serviced (2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            102,199,222
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            73,886,391
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            49,980,077
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            48
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Average residential assets serviced
          

             
          

            $
          

            81,260,594
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            59,637,040
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            41,093,085
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            36
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            45
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Prepayment speed (average CPR)
          

             
          

             
          

            14.4
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            12.7
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            19.4
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            13
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (35
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Percent of total UPB:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing portfolio
          

             
          

             
          

            77.0
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            69.4
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            54.8
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            11
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            27
          

            %
          



            Subservicing portfolio
          

             
          

             
          

            23.0
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            30.6
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            45.2
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (25
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (32
          

            )
          



            Non-performing residential assets serviced, excluding
            Freddie Mac (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            27.9
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            27.3
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            25.6
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            2
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Number of:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Performing loans (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            516,923
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            367,213
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            272,656
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            41
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            35
          

            %
          



            Non-performing loans
          

             
          

             
          

            123,584
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,204
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,717
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            50
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31
          

             
          



            Non-performing real estate
          

             
          

             
          

            31,116
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            29,748
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            16,222
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            83
          

             
          



            Total number of residential assets serviced (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            671,623
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            479,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            351,595
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            40
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            36
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Average number of residential assets serviced
          

             
          

             
          

            531,402
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            401,111
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            305,871
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31
          

             
          



            Percent of total number:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing portfolio
          

             
          

             
          

            77.5
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            68.9
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            55.4
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            12
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            24
          

            %
          



            Subservicing portfolio
          

             
          

             
          

            22.5
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31.1
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            44.6
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (28
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (30
          

            )
          



            Non-performing residential assets serviced, excluding
            Freddie Mac (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            21.2
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            20.9
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            18.8
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            1
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Residential Servicing and Subservicing Fees
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Loan servicing and subservicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            339,991
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            225,446
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            175,257
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            51
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            29
          

            %
          



            HAMP fees
          

             
          

             
          

            42,025
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,363
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,581
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            30
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            480
          

             
          



            Late charges
          

             
          

             
          

            38,555
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,754
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            28,290
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            18
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            16
          

             
          



            Loan collection fees
          

             
          

             
          

            11,223
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,958
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,499
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            19
          

             
          



            Custodial accounts (float earnings)
          

             
          

             
          

            2,105
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,843
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,802
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (26
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (41
          

            )
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            19,728
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            16,926
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,286
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            17
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            65
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            453,627
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            319,290
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            231,715
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            42
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Financing Costs
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Average balance of advances and match
            funded   advances
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,515,507
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,484,417
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,042,044
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            69
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            42
          

            %
          



            Average borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            1,833,641
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,074,215
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            728,217
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            71
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            48
          

             
          



            Interest expense on borrowings (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            125,826
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            75,964
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            51,247
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            66
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            48
          

             
          



            Facility costs included in interest expense (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            22,674
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,476
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,530
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (20
          

            )
          



            Discount amortization included in interest  
            expense (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            9,354
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,217
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,437
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            79
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            52
          

             
          



            Effective average interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

            6.86
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            7.07
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            7.04
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            (3
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Average 1-month LIBOR
          

             
          

             
          

            0.23
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            0.27
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            0.33
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            (15
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (18
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Average Employment
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            India and other
          

             
          

             
          

            2,521
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,650
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,134
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            53
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            46
          

            %
          



            United States (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            552
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            228
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            287
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            142
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (21
          

            )
          



            Total
          

             
          

             
          

            3,073
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,878
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,421
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            64
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Collections on loans serviced for others
          

             
          

            $
          

            6,618,201
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,379,326
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            6,593,399
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            23
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            (18
          

            )%
          



       
    




              37
              








               
            




       
    



            (1)
          

            Performing loans include those loans that are current
            and those loans for which borrowers are making
            scheduled payments under loan modification, forbearance
            or bankruptcy plans. We consider all other loans to be
            non-performing.
          



            (2)
          

            Subprime loans represent the largest category, or
            strata, of the residential loans that we service. At
            December 31, 2011, we serviced 548,504 subprime loans
            with a UPB of $84,726,233. This compares to 360,317
            subprime loans with a UPB of $56,530,714 at December
            31, 2010 and 243,593 subprime loans with a UPB of
            $35,682,666 at December 31, 2009.
          



            (3)
          

            Excluding the Litton portfolio that we acquired on
            September 1, 2011, the UPB and the number of
            non-performing residential assets serviced as a
            percentage of the total portfolio were 23.4% and 17.4%,
            respectively at December 31, 2011. Excluding the HomEq
            and Saxon portfolios acquired in 2010, the UPB and
            number of non-performing residential assets serviced as
            a percentage of the total portfolio were 25.5% and
            18.7%, respectively, at December 31, 2010.
          



            (4)
          

            By June 30, 2011, we had repaid the $197,500 balance
            outstanding under the $350,000 senior secured term
            loan. The repayments included $180,000 of prepayments
            in addition to the mandatory quarterly repayments of
            $17,500. These prepayments resulted in a write-off to
            interest expense of $4,972 of debt discount and $7,603
            of deferred debt issuance costs. Excluding these
            additional costs, the effective annual interest rate
            would have been 6.18% for 2011. This rate declined from
            2010, principally because of a decline in facility
            costs charged on certain facilities and an increase in
            average borrowings relative to facility costs which
            resulted in a significant decline in the proportion of
            interest expense represented by the amortization of
            facility costs.
          



            (5)
          

            Includes an average of 286 employees of Litton. The
            2010 average does not include 1,185 employees
            transferred to Ocwen as a result of the HomEq
            Acquisition, who were terminated prior to year end.
            Newly-hired Ocwen employees in India, Uruguay and the
            United States are now principally responsible for the
            servicing-related duties for the loans acquired from
            Litton and HomEq.
          



       
    

      The following table provides information regarding the
      changes in our portfolio of residential assets serviced:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            Amount of UPB
          

             
          

             
          

            Count
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          



            Portfolio at beginning of year
          

             
          

            $
          

            73,886,391
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            49,980,077
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            40,171,532
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            479,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            351,595
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            322,515
          

             
          



            Additions
          

             
          

             
          

            41,289,514
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,245,470
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            18,821,679
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            259,788
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            186,300
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            101,622
          

             
          



            Runoff
          

             
          

             
          

            (12,976,683
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,339,156
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,013,134
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (67,330
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (58,730
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (72,542
          

            )
          



            Portfolio at end of year
          

             
          

            $
          

            102,199,222
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            73,886,391
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            49,980,077
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            671,623
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            479,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            351,595
          

             
          



 


2011 versus 2010. Residential servicing and
      subservicing fees for 2011 were 42% higher than 2010 because
      of a 36% increase in the average UPB of residential assets
      serviced principally as a result of the Litton and HomEq
      acquisitions and because of a 9% increase in modifications.
      Servicing fees for 2011 include $62,750 earned on the Litton
      portfolio for the period from the acquisition date on
      September 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011.
    

       
    

      At December 31, 2011, the percentage of UPB representing
      servicing rather than subservicing was 77.0%, an 11% increase
      as compared to 69.4% on December 31, 2010. This increase was
      a result of the $38.6 billion of UPB that we acquired in the
      Litton Acquisition. Revenue increased relative to average UPB
      for 2011 to 0.56% as compared to 0.54% for 2010 due primarily
      due to a higher mix of servicing versus subservicing as a
      result of the Saxon MSR, HomEq and Litton acquisitions. The
      effect on revenues of the Litton Acquisition was tempered by
      the fact that initial revenues from newly acquired servicing
      are principally the contractual servicing fee and late fees.
      Other ancillary revenues, which are driven by the resolution
      of non-performing loans, ramp up gradually in the first year
      after the acquisition.
    

       
    

      When we return a loan to performing status, we generally
      recognize revenue in the form of deferred servicing fees and
      late fees. For loans modified under HAMP, however, we earn
      HAMP fees in place of late fees. Excluding HAMP fees, we
      recognized loan servicing fees and late charges of $56,055
      and $41,071 during 2011 and 2010, respectively, as a result
      of modifications completed. In addition, we earned total HAMP
      fees of $42,025 and $32,363 in 2011 and 2010, respectively.
      These amounts included HAMP success fees of $27,056 and
      $13,370 in 2011 and 2010, respectively on loans that were
      still performing at the one-year anniversary of their
      modification. We completed 76,205 modifications during 2011,
      up 9% from the 69,917 modifications completed during 2010. In
      2011, 16% of completed modifications were HAMP as compared to
      27% in 2010. In late January 2012, the federal government
      announced that it was extending the HAMP program through
      December 2013. In addition, the new “HAMP 2.0”
      increases incentives for principal reduction modifications,
      extends the program to renter-occupied investment properties,
      and makes the program more flexible for borrowers with
      certain large non-mortgage debts such as medical obligations.
    

       
    

      As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that the balance of
      uncollected and unrecognized servicing fees related to
      delinquent borrower payments was $220,044 compared to
      $123,582 as of December 31, 2010. The increase is primarily
      due to the $38.6 billion of servicing UPB acquired in the
      Litton Acquisition.
    

       
    




              38
              








               
            




       
    

      Process management fee revenues are primarily comprised of
      referral commissions for sales of foreclosed residential real
      estate through our network of brokers. Process management
      fees also include fees earned from Altisource in connection
      with the preparation of foreclosure and similar documents on
      loans that have defaulted. In future periods, we expect a
      substantial decline in document preparation fees as we align
      with new Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae guidelines that restrict
      certain fees.
    

       
    

      Operating expenses increased by $31,130. Amortization of MSRs
      increased by $11,541 in 2011 due to $6,778 of amortization
      attributed to Litton and an increase of $10,211 related to
      HomEq offset in part by a decline in amortization on
      pre-existing MSRs. Expenses incurred in connection with the
      Litton Acquisition, excluding amortization of MSRs, were
      $51,240 and include severance, WARN Act compensation and
      other benefits of $34,027, professional fees of $5,294,
      technology and communication costs of $4,967 and occupancy
      and equipment costs of $4,950. This increase in operating
      expenses attributed to the Litton Acquisition in 2011 were
      offset by similar expenses incurred in connection with the
      HomEq Acquisition in 2010 of $52,603, which included
      severance and WARN Act compensation of $32,954, occupancy and
      equipment costs of $15,104 and professional fees of $3,977 as
      described below. Excluding operating expenses related to the
      Litton and HomEq acquisitions, as well as amortization of
      MSRs, operating expenses increased by $20,448 from 2010 to
      2011, as we increased our staffing in India, Uruguay and the
      United States to manage the increase in the size of the
      Servicing portfolio. Excluding Litton personnel, average
      staffing in India and Uruguay increased by a combined 53% and
      in the United States by 17%. Total operating expenses for
      2011 were 0.28% of average UPB as compared to 0.34% for 2010.
    

 


      The increase in our overall delinquency rates from 27.3% of
      total UPB at December 31, 2010 to 27.9% at December 31, 2011
      is largely due to much higher delinquencies at boarding for
      the Litton portfolio. Excluding the Litton portfolio, the UPB
      of non-performing residential assets serviced as a percentage
      of the total portfolio was 23.4% at December 31, 2011.
      Excluding the effects of new acquisitions or of any changes
      to foreclosure processes that may occur during 2012, we
      expect overall delinquency rates to decline; however, this
      outcome is not assured.
    

       
    

      Prepayment speed was 1.7 percentage points higher in 2011
      primarily due to an increase in regular principal
      amortization and principal reduction modifications. Real
      estate sales and other involuntary liquidations accounted for
      approximately 62% of average CPR for 2011 with regular
      principal payments, principal reduction modifications and
      other voluntary payoffs accounting for the remaining 38%. For
      2010, involuntary and voluntary reductions accounted for 75%
      and 25%, respectively, of average CPR.
    

       
    

      Interest expense on borrowings for 2011 was 66% higher than
      in 2010. This increase was principally the result of an
      increase in average borrowings on advance facilities as a
      result of the HomEq and Litton acquisitions and the closing
      of the $575,000 senior secured term loan related to the
      Litton Acquisition on September 1, 2011. Also contributing to
      the increase was the repayment of the $350,000 senior secured
      term loan related to the HomEq acquisition, including
      $180,000 of accelerated prepayments on this loan in 2011.
      These prepayments resulted in a write-off to interest expense
      of $12,575 of related debt discount and deferred debt
      issuance costs. Interest expense for 2011 also includes
      $11,457 of net settlements related to interest rate swap
      agreements that we entered into during the second quarter of
      2010 as compared to $4,970 of such settlements in 2010. These
      increases were partly offset by lower spreads on advance
      facilities, particularly the Litton advance facility. Average
      borrowings of the Servicing segment increased by 71% during
      2011 as compared to 2010 as average advances and match funded
      advances increased by 69% during the same period because of
      advances and MSRs acquired as part of the HomEq and Litton
      acquisitions.
    

 


2010 versus 2009. Residential servicing and
      subservicing fees increased due to the increase in the UPB of
      residential assets serviced and an increase in modifications.
    

       
    

      The average UPB of residential assets serviced was 45% higher
      in 2010 while residential servicing and subservicing fees
      increased by 38%. Servicing fees for 2010 include $42,524
      earned on the HomEq portfolio for the period from the
      acquisition date of September 1, 2010 through December 31,
      2010.
    

       
    

      At December 31, 2010, the percentage of UPB representing
      servicing rather than subservicing was 69.4%, a 27% increase
      as compared to 54.8% on December 31, 2009. This increase was
      a result of the $22.4 billion of servicing UPB that we
      acquired in the HomEq Acquisition and the $6.9 billion of UPB
      that we acquired in the Saxon MSR Acquisition. However,
      revenue declined relative to average UPB in 2010 as compared
      to 2009 due primarily to a higher mix of subservicing in 2010
      prior to our acquisition of the HomEq and Saxon servicing
      portfolios and to lower initial revenue yield on these
      acquired portfolios. The effect on revenues of the HomEq and
      Saxon MSR acquisitions was tempered by the fact that initial
      revenues from newly acquired servicing are principally the
      contractual servicing fee and late fees. Other ancillary
      revenues, which are driven by the resolution of
      non-performing loans, ramp up gradually in the first year
      after the acquisition.
    

       
    




              39
              








               
            




       
    

      Excluding HAMP fees, we recognized loan servicing fees and
      late charges of $41,071 and $27,762 during 2010 and 2009,
      respectively, as a result of modifications completed. HAMP
      fees were $32,363 and $5,581 in 2010 and 2009, respectively.
      HAMP success fees that we earned on loans that were still
      performing at the one-year anniversary of their modification
      represent $13,370 of the total HAMP fees in 2010. We earned
      no success fees in 2009, the first year of HAMP. We completed
      a total of 69,917 modifications during 2010 as compared to
      51,485 during 2009. In 2010, 27% of completed modifications
      were HAMP as compared to 11% in 2009.
    

       
    

      As of December 31, 2010, we estimate that the balance of
      uncollected and unrecognized servicing fees related to
      delinquent borrower payments was $123,582 compared to $55,612
      as of December 31, 2009. The increase in 2010 is primarily
      due to the $22.4 billion of servicing UPB acquired in the
      HomEq Acquisition and the $6.9 billion of servicing UPB that
      we acquired in the Saxon MSR Acquisition in the second
      quarter.
    

       
    

      Process management fees, revenues primarily comprised of
      referral commissions for residential REO properties sold
      through our network of brokers, were $11,913 lower in 2010
      largely due to a decline in the number of properties sold.
      Sales of REO declined as loan modifications and short sales
      increased and as the foreclosure timeline lengthened. Partly
      offsetting the decline in commissions was a $6,641 increase
      in fees earned from Altisource in connection with the
      preparation of foreclosure and similar documents on loans
      that have defaulted. Prior to the Separation in August 2009,
      Servicing received a share of such fees from the former
      Technology Products segment as a reduction of allocated
      Technology and communication expense.
    

       
    

      Operating expenses increased by $70,856 primarily due to
      $52,603 of expenses incurred in connection with the HomEq
      Acquisition, including severance and WARN Act compensation of
      $32,954, occupancy and equipment costs of $15,104 and
      professional fees of $3,977. Occupancy and equipment costs
      include lease termination costs of $7,794 and a depreciation
      charge of $5,840 to write off leasehold improvements in
      connection with our decision to shutdown the leased HomEq
      facilities that we acquired in Sacramento, California and
      Raleigh, North Carolina. We also established a $5,753 reserve
      in connection with the proposed settlement of the MDL
      Proceeding including $5,163 in the second quarter and $590 in
      the fourth quarter. Corporate overhead expenses allocated to
      Servicing increased by $5,776 primarily due to a decline in
      the relative size of the non-Servicing segments following the
      spin-off of the former OS segments to Altisource in August
      2009. In addition, the effect of the Separation on our
      recognition of default document preparation fees as described
      above increased Operating expenses by $4,499 in 2010.
      Excluding the expenses incurred in connection with the HomEq
      Acquisition and the reserve accrual for the MDL proceeding,
      Operating expenses in the Servicing segment increased by
      $12,500, or 9.7%, in 2010, which is substantially less than
      the growth in average UPB. The decline in the normalized
      expense ratio is attributable to lower amortization expense
      relative to UPB as long-term CPR expectations decreased and
      low incremental operating expense as UPB increases.
    

 


      The overall delinquency rates at the end of 2010 and 2009 are
      similar. Within these composite totals, the delinquency rate
      on the portfolio that existed at the end of 2009 declined
      substantially in 2010, but this decline was offset by higher
      delinquency rates on the newly acquired HomEq and Saxon
      portfolios. Delinquency rates on both the HomEq and Saxon
      portfolios have declined since boarding but are still higher
      than the rate for the prior portfolios. Excluding the effects
      of any new acquisitions or of any changes to foreclosure
      processes that may occur in 2011, we expect overall
      delinquency rates to decline which represents a continuation
      of current trends.
    

       
    

      The increase in total advances is the result of advances
      acquired as part of the HomEq and Saxon MSR acquisitions.
      Excluding advances related to the HomEq and Saxon portfolios,
      total advances declined by $151,868 in 2010. We expect
      advances to continue to decline in 2011 before any new
      acquisitions or foreclosure process changes.
    

       
    

      Prepayment speed was 35% lower in 2010 primarily due to a
      decline in real estate sales as loan modifications and short
      sales increased and as the foreclosure timeline lengthened.
      Real estate sales and other involuntary liquidations
      accounted for approximately 75% of prepayments during 2010 as
      compared to approximately 84% in 2009.
    

       
    

      Interest expense on borrowings for 2010 was 48% higher than
      2009 principally because of an increase in average borrowings
      on advance facilities, the closing of the $350,000 senior
      secured term loan, higher average interest rates on the
      subordinated notes on the HomEq advance facility and the
      costs associated with the increase in unused advance
      financing capacity. These increases were partly offset by
      lower spreads on advance facilities. Average Servicing
      borrowings increased by 48% during 2010 as compared to 2009
      as average advances and match funded advances increased by
      42% during the same period. Interest expense for 2010
      includes $4,970 of net settlements related to interest rate
      swap agreements that we entered into during the second
      quarter of 2010.
    

       
    




              40
              








               
            




       
    

      The following table shows selected assets and liabilities of
      our Servicing segment as of December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          



            Advances (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            99,681
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            180,709
          

             
          



            Match funded advances(1)
          

             
          

             
          

            3,629,911
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,924,052
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights (Residential) (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            293,152
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            193,985
          

             
          



            Receivables, net (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            57,384
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            60,627
          

             
          



            Goodwill (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            78,432
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,810
          

             
          



            Debt service accounts (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            115,867
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            86,234
          

             
          



            Prepaid lender fees and debt issuance costs, net (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            27,113
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,467
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            8,814
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,082
          

             
          



            Total assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,310,354
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,495,966
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities (7)
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,558,951
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,482,529
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            535,759
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            238,299
          

             
          



            Accrued expenses (8)
          

             
          

             
          

            35,738
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,423
          

             
          



            Payable to servicing and subservicing investors (9)
          

             
          

             
          

            28,824
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,444
          

             
          



            Checks held for escheat (8)
          

             
          

             
          

            19,870
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,723
          

             
          



            Servicing liabilities (8)
          

             
          

             
          

            9,662
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,415
          

             
          



            Accrued interest payable
          

             
          

             
          

            1,915
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,803
          

             
          



            Deferred income (10)
          

             
          

             
          

            660
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,394
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            7,969
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,221
          

             
          



            Total liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,199,348
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,795,251
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Overall, advances increased in 2011 primarily due to
            the acquisition of $2,468,137 of advances in connection
            with the Litton Acquisition offset in part by a
            reduction in advances on the pre-existing portfolio.
            Excluding the effect of any new acquisitions or
            significant foreclosure process changes, we expect
            advances to continue to decline; however, there is no
            assurance that this will occur.
          



            (2)
          

            We acquired $144,314 of MSRs as part of the Litton
            Acquisition. These additions were offset in part by
            amortization of $45,721.
          



            (3)
          

            Receivables include reimbursable expenditures due from
            investors and amounts to be recovered from the
            custodial accounts of the trustees.
          



            (4)
          

            We recorded $65,622 of goodwill in connection with the
            Litton Acquisition. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
            Financial Statements for additional information
            regarding assets acquired and liabilities assumed as
            part of the Litton Acquisition.
          



            (5)
          

            The balances required to be maintained in debt service
            accounts were higher due to the funding of a new
            account related to the match funded advance facility
            entered into in connection with the Litton Acquisition.
            This increase was partly offset by declining balance
            requirements related to the other match funded
            facilities as a result of repayments.
          



            (6)
          

            On September 1, 2011, we entered into a new senior
            secured term loan facility agreement and borrowed
            $575,000 that was used to fund a portion of the Litton
            Acquisition as well as for general corporate purposes.
            We incurred $13,147 of fees in connection with this
            senior secured term loan. These fees and $11,500 of
            original issue discount are being amortized over the
            five-year term of the loan. In September 2010, we
            executed a $350,000 senior secured term loan that was
            used to fund a portion of the HomEq Acquisition. At
            December 31, 2010, the outstanding principal balance of
            this loan was $197,500, and the unamortized discount
            and debt issuance costs were $5,632 and $8,604,
            respectively. We repaid the outstanding balance of this
            loan during the first and second quarters of 2011 and
            wrote off the remaining discount and debt issue costs.
            See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
            for additional information regarding these loans.
          



            (7)
          

            The balance of match funded liabilities increased
            because of $2,126,742 of debt incurred in connection
            with the establishment of a new facility to finance
            advances that we acquired as part of the Litton
            Acquisition. The outstanding balance of this new
            facility was $1,784,043 at December 31, 2011. This
            increase was partly offset by a $428,271 decline in
            borrowings under the HomEq advance financing facility
            because of advance reduction.
          



            (8)
          

            Accrued expenses at December 31, 2011 related to the
            Litton Acquisition were $16,236 including $5,163 for
            employee termination benefits. We assumed $25,471 of
            accrued expenses in connection with the Litton
            Acquisition, including accruals for employee salaries,
            benefits and other related compensation costs, legal
            fees and litigation reserves. We also assumed servicing
            liabilities with a fair value of $8,972 and an
            obligation for checks held for escheat of $6,145. The
            balance at December 31, 2010 includes the $5,753
            accrual established in connection with the MDL
            Proceeding which we settled in 2011. See Note 17 to the
            Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
            information on other liabilities.
          



       
    




              41
              








               
            




       
    



            (9)
          

            The balance represents amounts due to investors in
            connection with loans we service under servicing and
            subservicing agreements
          



            (10)
          

            The balance at December 31, 2010 included $9,508 of
            deferred income associated with the fee reimbursement
            advance facility that was being amortized to earnings
            over the five-year life of the related debt as a
            reduction of interest expense. The unamortized balance
            was written off upon the repayment of the related debt
            during September 2011 and included in the gain on
            extinguishment of debt. See Note 15 to the Consolidated
            Financial Statements for additional information on the
            fee reimbursement advance facility.
          



       
    

      Mortgage Services, Financial Services and Technology Products
    

       
    

      As previously disclosed, Mortgage Services, Financial
      Services and Technology Products were separated as of August
      10, 2009 as part of the Separation of the Ocwen Solutions
      line of business. As a separate, publicly-traded company,
      Altisource (NASDAQ:ASPS) files an annual report on Form 10-K
      with the Securities and Exchange Commission. See Note 27 to
      the Consolidated Financial Statements for the financial
      results of these segments for the period January 1, 2009
      through August 10, 2009.
    

       
    

      Corporate Items and Other
    

       
    

      The following table presents selected results of operations
      of Corporate Items and Other for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010 (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          



            Revenue (2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,348
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,112
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,917
          

             
          



            Operating expenses (2)(3)
          

             
          

             
          

            8,971
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,130
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,247
          

             
          



            Loss from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,623
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (35,018
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (19,330
          

            )
          



            Other income (expense)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net interest income (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            8,570
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,243
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,624
          

             
          



            Gain (loss) on trading securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,968
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            11,187
          

             
          



            Loss on loans held for resale, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,529
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,865
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (11,132
          

            )
          



            Equity in (losses) earnings of unconsolidated entities
            (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,410
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            606
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,060
          

            )
          



            Gain on debt redemption
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            723
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,415
          

             
          



            Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,893
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            3,238
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (560
          

            )
          



            Other income (expense), net
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,262
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,023
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            3,474
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Loss from continuing operations before income taxes
          

             
          

            $
          

            (12,885
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (39,041
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,856
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Effective January 1, 2010, the Corporate Items and
            Other segment includes four securitization trusts that
            we include in our consolidated financial statements.
            Our results of operations for the year ended December
            31, 2010 and our assets and liabilities as of that date
            include the effects of consolidating these trusts. See
            Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
            additional information.
          



            (2)
          

            Under agreements entered into following the Separation,
            Ocwen and Altisource provide to each other services in
            such areas as human resources, vendor management,
            corporate services, six sigma, quality assurance,
            quantitative analytics, treasury, accounting, tax
            matters, risk management, law, strategic planning and
            compliance. Fees related to these services are included
            in revenue and operating expenses. See Note 28 to the
            Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
            information regarding our agreements with Altisource.
            Revenue also includes management fees earned from OSI
            and ONL and affiliates. See Note 11 to the Consolidated
            Financial Statements for additional information
            regarding fees we earn from these entities.
          



            (3)
          

            Portions of interest income and interest expense are
            allocated to the Servicing segment, including interest
            earned on cash balances and short-term investments and
            interest incurred on corporate debt. Operating expenses
            generated by corporate support services are also
            allocated to the Servicing segment.
          



       
    

2011 versus 2010. Operating expenses were lower in
      2011 primarily due to a $22,630 decline in litigation related
      expenses. Litigation expenses incurred in 2010 primarily
      related to an adverse verdict in a vendor dispute. During the
      first quarter of 2011, we reduced our litigation accruals
      that we had established in 2010 related to this vendor
      dispute based on the final judgment which was paid in May
      2011. During 2010, we also incurred costs in connection with
      the settlement of two litigation actions whereby the broker /
      dealers agreed to repurchase certain of our auction rate
      securities.
    

       
    

      Net interest income consists primarily of interest on loans
      held by the consolidated securitization trusts and on loans
      held for resale. Net interest income for 2010 includes $3,319
      of interest expense incurred on the $350,000 senior secured
      term loan from the closing date of the term loan on July 29,
      2010 to the closing date of the HomEq Acquisition on
      September 1, 2010. Effective with the closing of the HomEq
      Acquisition, the interest expense on the term loan has been
      recognized in the Servicing segment.
    

       
    




              42
              








               
            




       
    

      Loss on trading securities for 2010 includes $7,909 of
      realized and unrealized losses on auction rate securities.
      During the fourth quarter of 2010, we liquidated our
      remaining investment in auction rate securities.
    

       
    

      Equity in earnings of unconsolidated entities declined
      largely because of an increase in losses on loans sold or
      otherwise resolved by ONL. In June 2011, ONL sold 38
      residential loans for proceeds of $3,748 and realized a loss
      of $2,876 of which we recognized approximately 25%. In
      addition, Correspondent One incurred a loss from its start-up
      operations. Our 49% share of their loss for 2011 was $530.
    

       
    

      Other, net for 2011 includes $5,785 of unrealized losses and
      $1,375 of settlements on foreign exchange forward contracts
      we entered into during the third and fourth quarters to hedge
      against the effects of changes in the value of the Indian
      Rupee. Other, net, for 2011 and 2010 includes $2,697 and
      $1,495, respectively, of net expense related to the
      securitization trusts that is primarily comprised of losses
      related to the loans. Partly offsetting these losses during
      2011, we recognized $1,138 of gains on sales and other income
      related to our investments in affordable housing projects. As
      disclosed below, in 2010 we recognized $7,390 of gains and
      other income related to our investments in affordable housing
      projects that were partly offset by a $3,000 charge we
      recorded to write-off a commercial real estate investment.
    

 


2010 versus 2009. Management fee revenue
      continued to decline in 2010. In addition to a decline in
      assets managed, our agreement with OSI to provide management
      services was amended in 2010 to limit the annual fees to a
      maximum of $300. The decline in management fees was partially
      offset by an increase in revenues generated from fees for
      providing support services to Altisource.
    

       
    

      As noted above, operating expenses were higher in 2010
      primarily due to a $19,889 increase in litigation related
      expenses that is largely attributable to an adverse verdict
      in a vendor dispute. The increase in litigation expense was
      partly offset by $3,775 of expenses recorded in 2009 related
      to the Separation.
    

       
    

      Net interest income for 2010 included $4,338 generated by the
      securitization trusts we began consolidating in 2010. This
      effect was partially offset by lower interest income on loans
      held for sale because of a decline in the UPB of the
      portfolio. In addition, beginning in 2010 we have eliminated
      in consolidation the interest income on the securities we
      hold that were issued by the securitization trusts. As
      disclosed above, interest expense for 2010 includes $3,319
      incurred on the $350,000 senior secured term loan.
    

       
    

      Loss on trading securities for 2010 includes $7,909 of losses
      on auction rate securities, $5,903 of which we realized on
      the liquidation of our remaining investment through sales and
      the settlement of litigation actions. The 2009 gain on
      trading securities is primarily comprised of $11,772 of
      unrealized gains on auction rate securities.
    

       
    

      In 2010, we repurchased $13,010 par value of our 10.875%
      Capital Securities at a discount to par in the open market
      which generated gains of $723, net of the write-off of
      unamortized issuance costs. In 2009, we repurchased $25,910
      of our 3.25% Convertible Notes and $14,250 of our 10.875%
      Capital Securities for a net gain of $1,415.
    

       
    

      Other, net for 2010 includes $7,390 of income we recognized
      related to our investment in affordable housing projects.
      This income is primarily comprised of a $6,036 gain on the
      sale of three affordable housing projects which had a
      carrying value of zero and a $1,000 legal settlement related
      to another affordable housing project that we had sold in
      2005. Partially offsetting these gains, we recorded a charge
      of $3,000 in 2010 to write-off of our investment in a
      commercial real estate partnership. In addition, Other, net,
      in 2010 includes $1,495 of net expense related to the
      securitization trusts that is primarily comprised of losses
      related to the loans.
    

       
    




              43
              








               
            




       
    

      The following table presents selected assets and liabilities
      of Corporate Items and Other at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          



            Cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            144,234
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            127,796
          

             
          



            Restricted cash – for securitization investors
          

             
          

             
          

            675
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            727
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            3,910
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,124
          

             
          



            Loans, net – restricted for securitization
            investors (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            58,560
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,340
          

             
          



            Receivables, net
          

             
          

             
          

            4,300
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,271
          

             
          



            Income taxes receivable (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            21,518
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,620
          

             
          



            Deferred tax assets, net (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            107,968
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            138,716
          

             
          



            Premises and equipment, net
          

             
          

             
          

            6,153
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,134
          

             
          



            Interest-earning collateral deposits (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            26,191
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,738
          

             
          



            Real estate (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            3,368
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,682
          

             
          



            Investment in unconsolidated entities (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            23,507
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,072
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            5,786
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,420
          

             
          



            Total assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            426,803
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            425,443
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Secured borrowings – owed to securitization
            investors (2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            53,323
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            62,705
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings (7)
          

             
          

             
          

            4,610
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,774
          

             
          



            Debt securities
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          



            Derivatives, at fair value (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            20,276
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,670
          

             
          



            Accrued expenses (7)
          

             
          

             
          

            17,778
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,700
          

             
          



            Checks held for escheat
          

             
          

             
          

            4,817
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,364
          

             
          



            Liability for selected tax items
          

             
          

             
          

            4,524
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,913
          

             
          



            Payable to Altisource
          

             
          

             
          

            2,401
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,715
          

             
          



            Accrued interest payable
          

             
          

             
          

            2,226
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,027
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            1,989
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,918
          

             
          



            Total liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            194,498
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            221,340
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Loans held for resale are net of valuation allowances
            of $14,257 and $14,611 at December 31, 2011 and
            December 31, 2010, respectively, and include
            non-performing loans with a net carrying value of
            $8,553 and $11,247, respectively. The UPB of
            nonperforming loans held for resale as a percentage of
            total UPB was 55% at December 31, 2011 compared to 53%
            at December 31, 2010.
          



            (2)
          

            Loans held by the consolidated securitization trusts
            are net of an allowance for loan losses of $2,702 and
            $2,378 at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010,
            respectively, and include nonperforming loans with a
            UPB of $11,861 and $12,933, respectively. Secured
            borrowings – owed to securitization investors
            represent certificates issued by the consolidated
            securitization trusts. See Note 1, Note 7 and Note 14
            to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
            information regarding the securitization trusts, the
            loans and the related borrowings.
          



            (3)
          

            See Note 23 for additional information regarding income
            taxes.
          



            (4)
          

            As disclosed in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
            Statements, we entered into interest rate swap
            agreements during 2010 and 2011 to hedge against our
            exposure to an increase in variable interest rates. In
            the third and fourth quarters of 2011, we also entered
            into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge
            against the effect of changes in the value of the India
            Rupee. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we
            have $19,623 and $18,684, respectively, of cash
            collateral on deposit with the counterparties to our
            derivatives, the majority of which relates to the swap
            agreements.
          



            (5)
          

            Includes $2,722 and $3,783 at December 31, 2011 and
            December 31, 2010, respectively, of foreclosed
            properties from our portfolio of loans held for resale
            that are reported net of fair value allowances of
            $2,406 and $3,554, respectively.
          



            (6)
          

            Investment in unconsolidated entities includes our
            equity interests in the asset management entities OSI
            (27%), ONL (25%) and OREO (25%). Our combined
            investment in these entities was $9,275 and $11,992 at
            December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
            During 2011, we received a total of $2,415 of
            distributions from the asset management entities. We
            have no remaining commitment to invest in OSI, ONL or
            OREO. On December 22, 2011, we acquired a 2% ownership
            interest held by another investor in OSI. In addition,
            we acquired a 50% interest in Correspondent One in
            March 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we had funded all
            of the committed $15,000 investment in Correspondent
            One. By December 31, 2011, investments by unrelated
            third parties had reduced our interest in Correspondent
            One to 49%. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
            Statements for additional information regarding
            investments in unconsolidated entities.
          



       
    




              44
              








               
            




       
    



            (7)
          

            The decline in accrued expenses in 2011 is primarily
            due to our payment in May of a judgment regarding a
            litigated vendor dispute. Accruals established in
            connection with litigation declined from $18,413 at
            December 31, 2010 to $2,360 at December 31, 2011. See
            Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
            additional information regarding litigation.
          



       
    

      EQUITY
    

       
    

      Total equity amounted to $1,343,311 at December 31, 2011 as
      compared to $904,817 at December 31, 2010. This increase of
      $438,494 is due to the net proceeds of $354,445 from the
      public offering of 28,750,000 shares of common stock in
      November 2011 and net income of $78,323. The exercise of
      stock options and the recognition of compensation related to
      employee share-based awards also contributed to the increase
      in equity in 2011.
    

       
    

      INCOME TAX EXPENSE
    

       
    

      Income tax expense was $44,672, $5,545 and $96,110 for 2011,
      2010 and 2009, respectively. In 2009, we incurred income tax
      expense of $52,047 in connection with the Separation of which
      $26,398 was deferred tax expense.
    

       
    

      Our effective tax rate for 2011 was 36.33% as compared to
      14.2% for 2010 and 48.4% for 2009. Excluding the effect of
      changes in a reserve predominantly related to deductions
      associated with a servicing advance structure and statute
      expirations in 2010 and 2009 and the effect of the Separation
      in 2009, our effective tax rate was 37.5% and 36.4% for 2010
      and 2009, respectively. Our Federal U.S. cash tax rate for
      2011 and 2010 approximates 35%. For 2009, we paid a cash tax
      rate of approximately 20% which was less than our effective
      tax rate due to the utilization of tax benefits including low
      income housing tax credits. When combined with U.S. state and
      international cash taxes, the rates are 38.23%, 41.7% and
      24.8%, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we no longer
      had any low income housing tax credits available to reduce
      future taxable income. Income tax expense on income before
      income taxes differs from amounts that would be computed by
      applying the Federal corporate income tax rate of 35%
      primarily because of the effect of foreign taxes and foreign
      tax rates, foreign income with an indefinite deferral from
      U.S. taxation, losses from consolidated variable interest
      entities (VIEs), state taxes and changes in the liability for
      selected tax items. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements for a reconciliation of taxes at the statutory
      rate to actual income tax expense.
    

       
    

      The effective tax rate for 2011 reflects additional tax
      expense of $1,611 related to an increase in the liability for
      selected tax items predominately related to state tax
      positions.
    

       
    

      The effective rate for 2010 reflects a benefit from the
      release of a reserve of $9,126 predominantly related to
      deductions associated with a servicing advance finance
      structure and with statute expirations. The reserve for these
      items had been recorded in prior years. Our effective tax
      rate for 2010 also includes a non-cash benefit of
      approximately 1.9% associated with the recognition of certain
      foreign deferred tax assets.
    

       
    

      Our effective tax rate for 2009 includes a non-cash benefit
      of approximately 1.2% associated with the recognition of
      certain foreign deferred tax assets, offset by 12% resulting
      from a non-cash increase in our liability for selected tax
      items related to recognized deferred tax assets arising from
      deductibility of losses in a servicing advance finance
      structure.
    

       
    

      LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
    

       
    

      As noted in the Overview – Liquidity section, our
      liquidity as of December 31, 2011, as measured by
      unencumbered cash plus unused, collateralized advance
      financing capacity was $551,067, an increase of $294,177, or
      115%, from December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, our cash
      position was $144,234 compared to $127,796 at December 31,
      2010. We have invested cash that is in excess of our
      immediate operating needs primarily in money market deposit
      accounts.
    

       
    

Investment policy and funding strategy. Our primary
      sources of funds for near-term liquidity are:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            collections of servicing fees and ancillary revenues;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            collections of prior servicer advances in excess of new
            advances;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            proceeds from match funded liabilities; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            proceeds from lines of credit and other secured
            borrowings.
          



       
    

      In addition to these near-term sources, potential additional
      long-term sources of liquidity include proceeds from the
      issuance of debt securities and equity capital; although we
      cannot assure you that they will be available on terms that
      we find acceptable. On November 9, 2011, we completed the
      public offering of 28,750,000 shares of common stock at a per
      share price of $13.00 and received net proceeds of $354,445.
      In 2011, we used the net proceeds to temporarily reduce our
      borrowings under advance funding facilities rather than
      invest the proceeds at current short-term investment rates
      that our below our effective cost of borrowing. In 2012, we
      increased our advance borrowings in order to make these
      proceeds available to fund servicing acquisitions.
    

       
    




              45
              








               
            




       
    

      Our primary uses of funds are:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            payments for advances in excess of collections on
            existing servicing portfolios;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            payment of interest and operating costs;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            purchase of MSRs and related advances; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            repayments of borrowings.
          



       
    

      We closely monitor our liquidity position and ongoing funding
      requirements, and we regularly monitor and project cash flow
      by period to minimize liquidity risk. In assessing our
      liquidity outlook, our primary focus is on three measures:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            requirements for maturing liabilities compared to
            dollars generated from maturing assets and operating
            cash flow;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            the change in advances and match funded advances
            compared to the change in match funded liabilities and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            unused borrowing capacity.
          



       
    

      At December 31, 2011, $1,565,520 of our total maximum
      borrowing capacity remained unused. We maintain unused
      borrowing capacity for three reasons:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            as a protection should advances increase due to
            increased delinquencies;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            as a protection should we be unable to either renew
            existing facilities or obtain new facilities; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            to provide capacity for the acquisition of additional
            MSRs.
          



       
    

Outlook. As also noted in the Overview –
      Liquidity Summary in order to reduce fees charged by lenders
      (which we recognize as interest expense), we maintain unused
      borrowing capacity at a level that we consider prudent
      relative to the current levels of advances and to meet our
      funding needs for reasonably foreseeable changes in advances.
      We also monitor the duration of our funding sources. With the
      increase in the term of our funding sources, we have better
      matched the duration of our advances and corresponding
      borrowings and further reduced the relative cost of up-front
      facility fees and expenses. Our $382,729 of three-year term
      notes under our HomEq facility, $1,784,043 two-year note
      under our Litton facility and $130,492 of two-year notes
      under a third facility account for 90% of our outstanding
      advance financing at December 31, 2011.
    

       
    

Debt financing summary. During 2011, we:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Issued $2,126,742 of notes on September 1, 2011 in
            connection with the financing of advances that we
            acquired as part of the Litton Acquisition;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Increased the maximum borrowing capacity of a variable
            funding note from $300,000 to $800,000 and extended the
            amortization to December 2012. Beginning June 15, 2012,
            maximum borrowing capacity under this note will be
            reduced to the extent that the lender’s
            commitment under any other advance facilities of Ocwen
            or its affiliates exceeds $200,000;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Extended the amortization date of a second facility
            from June 2011 to July 2013, reduced the maximum
            borrowing capacity from $500,000 to $265,000 and
            reduced the annual facility fee from 1.3% of the
            maximum borrowing capacity to 1%;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Terminated an underutilized advance financing facility
            with a maximum borrowing capacity of $100,000 and
            repaid the outstanding balance on June 30, 2011;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Repaid $428,271 of the HomEq advance facility term
            notes;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Repaid the remaining $197,500 balance of the $350,000
            senior secured term loan, including $180,000 of
            voluntary repayments;
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Entered into a new $575,000 senior secured term loan on
            September 1, 2011 that was issued with a discount of
            $11,500 and used the proceeds to fund a portion of the
            Litton Acquisition. We repaid $28,750 of this loan in
            2011; and
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Repaid the remaining $48,000 balance of the fee
            reimbursement advance borrowing.
          



       
    

      Maximum borrowing capacity for match funded advances
      increased by $1,715,471 from $2,409,000 at December 31, 2010
      to $4,124,471 at December 31, 2011. This increase is
      primarily a result of the new Litton advance financing
      facility and the increase in capacity of an existing facility
      by $500,000. These increases were offset by: the Advance
      Receivable Backed Note Series 2010-1 note entering its
      amortization period; the pay down on the term notes issued in
      connection with the HomEq Acquisition which reduces potential
      borrowing on those notes; the reduction in maximum borrowing
      capacity on one facility from $500,000 to $265,000; and the
      termination of another facility that had a maximum borrowing
      capacity of $100,000. The remaining $40,000 balance of the
      Series 2010-1 note was repaid on February 15, 2012.
    

       
    




              46
              








               
            




       
    

      Our unused advance borrowing capacity increased from $926,471
      at December 31, 2010 to $1,565,520 at December 31, 2011. The
      increases related to the Litton advance funding facility and
      the upsizing of an existing facility were partly offset by
      the decline in capacity resulting from the pay down of the
      Series 2010-1 note, a reduction in maximum borrowing capacity
      on one facility and the termination of another facility.
    

 


      Our ability to finance servicing advances is a significant
      factor that affects our liquidity. Three of our match funded
      advance facilities are subject to increases in the financing
      discount if deemed necessary by the rating agencies in order
      to maintain the minimum rating required for the facility.
      While Fitch has placed the notes under our Advance Receivable
      Backed Note Series on negative watch, we do not expect future
      advance rate changes to have a material effect on our
      liquidity. Our ability to continue to pledge collateral under
      each advance facility depends on the performance of the
      collateral. Currently, the large majority of our collateral
      qualifies for financing under the advance facility to which
      it is pledged.
    

       
    

      As discussed in Note 30 to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements and under the Servicing discussion in the Business
      – Operating Segments section, recent inquiries into
      servicer foreclosure processes could result in actions by
      state or federal governmental bodies, regulators or the
      courts that could result in a further extension of
      foreclosure timelines. While the effect of such extensions
      could be an increase in advances, the effect on liquidity
      will be lessened if Ocwen maintains its ability to utilize
      spare capacity on its advance facilities because
      approximately 78% of the increase in advances could be
      borrowed. Furthermore, if foreclosure moratoria are issued in
      a manner that brings into question the timely recovery of
      advances on foreclosed properties, Ocwen may no longer be
      obligated to make further advances and may be able to recover
      existing advances in certain securitizations from pool-level
      collections which could mitigate any advance increase. The
      effects of the extension of foreclosure timelines have, thus
      far, been more than offset by the effects of increases in
      other forms of resolution, and advances have continued to
      decline. Absent significant changes in the foreclosure
      process, we expect advances to continue to decline.
    

       
    

      Some of our existing debt covenants limit our ability to
      incur additional debt in relation to our equity, require that
      we do not exceed maximum levels of delinquent loans and
      require that we maintain minimum levels of liquid assets and
      earnings. Failure to comply with these covenants could result
      in restrictions on new borrowings or the early termination of
      our borrowing facilities. We believe that we are currently in
      compliance with these covenants and do not expect them to
      restrict our activities.
    

       
    

      By the end of the second quarter of 2011, through voluntary
      repayments in addition to mandatory quarterly installments of
      $8,750, we had repaid in full our borrowings under the
      $350,000 senior secured term loan that we had entered into on
      July 29, 2010 in connection with the HomEq Acquisition. We
      made the prepayments in order to absorb excess liquidity and
      to reduce interest costs. Subsequent to our repayment of the
      $350,000 senior secured term loan, we entered into an
      agreement for a new $575,000 senior secured term loan
      agreement to finance the Litton Acquisition that has similar
      covenants.
    

       
    

Cash flows for the year ended December 31,
      2011. Our operating activities provided $982,145
      of cash primarily due to collections of servicing advances
      (primarily on the HomEq Servicing portfolio) and net income
      adjusted for amortization and other non-cash items. Excluding
      $2,468,137 paid to acquire advances in connection with the
      Litton Acquisition, collections of servicing advances were
      $842,545. The cash provided by advance collections and
      earnings were partly offset by the payment of settled
      litigation and the funding of a new debt service account
      related to the advance facility established to finance the
      advances acquired as part of the Litton Acquisition. The
      funding of the new interest-earning debt service account was
      offset in part by lower balance requirements for debt service
      accounts related to the HomEq and other match funded
      facilities as a result of repayments of the borrowings.
      Operating cash flows were used principally to repay
      borrowings under advance financing facilities and the senior
      secured term loans.
    

       
    

      Our investing activities used $2,655,118 of cash during 2011.
      On September 1, 2011, we paid $2,646,700 to acquire Litton,
      including advances of $2,468,137 and MSRs of $144,314. We
      also invested $15,000 in Correspondent One. Distributions
      received from our asset management entities were $2,415
      during 2011.
    

       
    

      Our financing activities provided $1,689,411 of cash
      consisting primarily of $2,126,742 received from the new
      match funded facility established to finance the advances
      acquired in the Litton Acquisition. We also received proceeds
      of $563,500 from the issuance of the $575,000 senior secured
      term loan. We used the proceeds from these two new facilities
      to fund the Litton Acquisition. Cash provided by operating
      activities and net proceeds of $354,445 from the issuance of
      28,750,000 common stock allowed us to make net repayments of
      $1,050,320 against match funded liabilities. In addition, we
      were able to repay the $197,500 remaining balance of the
      $350,000 senior secured term loan and payments of $28,750 on
      the new $575,000 senior secured term loan. We also repaid the
      remaining balance on our fee reimbursement advance. In
      connection with the issuance of the new senior secured term
      loan, we paid $13,147 of debt issuance costs to the
      lender.


 





              47
              








               
            




 


Cash flows for the year ended December 31,
      2010.Our operating activities provided
      $727,544 of cash primarily due to our liquidation of auction
      rate securities and net collections of servicing advances.
      Trading activities provided $239,555 of cash from sales,
      settlements and redemptions of auction rate securities.
      Excluding $1,588,370 paid to acquire advances in connection
      with the HomEq and Saxon MSR acquisitions, total advance
      collections were $447,219. Servicer liabilities declined by
      $36,180 in 2010.
    

       
    

      Our investing activities used $1,703,706 of cash during the
      year ended December 31, 2010. We paid $1,167,122 to acquire
      the HomEq Servicing business including $84,324 of MSRs and
      $1,063,180 of advances. We also paid $23,425 to purchase MSRs
      and acquired $528,882 of advances and other assets in
      connection with the acquisition of the Saxon servicing
      portfolio. During 2010, we also received proceeds of $6,036
      from the sale of our 1% general partnership interests in
      three affordable housing properties and received $3,542 of
      distributions from our asset management entities.
    

       
    

      Our financing activities provided $1,013,039 of cash
      primarily consisting of $1,016,838 of net proceeds from match
      funded liabilities of our Servicing business including
      $824,000 received in connection with the notes issued to
      finance the advances acquired as part of the HomEq
      Acquisition. We also received proceeds of $343,000 from the
      issuance of a senior secured term loan. This was partially
      offset by our repayment of the investment line of $156,968,
      repayment of $152,500 of principal and $10,689 of debt issue
      costs on the senior secured term loan and repurchase of our
      Capital Securities with a face value of $13,010 for $11,659.
      We also paid the first annual installment of $12,000 on our
      $60,000 fee reimbursement advance.
    

       
    

Cash flows for the year ended December 31,
      2009.Our operating activities generated
      $206,646 of cash primarily due to lower investment in trading
      activities, declining delinquencies and lower collections.
      Trading activities provided $3,700 of cash from redemptions
      of auction rate securities at par.
    

       
    

      Our investing activities used $3,161 cash primarily due to
      purchases of MSRs offset by lower distributions received from
      asset management vehicles and reduced proceeds from sales of
      real estate.
    

       
    

      Our financing activities used $313,591 cash as we made net
      repayments of $585,037 on match funded liabilities, other
      secured borrowings and the investment line, repurchased debt
      securities for $37,289 and distributed $20,028 of cash in
      connection with the Separation, offset in part by $324,129 of
      net proceeds from the issuance and repurchase of common
      stock.
    

       
    

      CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
    

       
    

      Contractual Obligations
    

       
    

      The following table sets forth certain information regarding
      amounts we owe to others under contractual obligations as of
      December 31, 2011:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            Less Than
            One Year
          

             
          

             
          

            After One Year
            Through Three
            Years
          

             
          

             
          

            After Three
            Years Through
            Five Years
          

             
          

             
          

            After Five
            Years
          

             
          

             
          

            Total
          

             
          



            3.25% Convertible Notes (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            56,435
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            56,435
          

             
          



            10.875% Capital Securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured  borrowings (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            62,110
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            115,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            373,750
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            550,860
          

             
          



            Contractual interest payments (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            41,429
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,895
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            47,945
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,245
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            188,514
          

             
          



            Operating leases
          

             
          

             
          

            6,237
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,157
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,409
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,265
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,068
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            166,211
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            194,052
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            428,104
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            59,629
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            847,996
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The Convertible Notes will mature on August 1, 2024.
            However, the table above reflects an expected maturity
            date of March 28, 2012 because we provided notice of
            redemption to the holders on February 27, 2012 stating
            our election to redeem all of the outstanding
            Convertible notes on March 28, 2012. See Note 18 to the
            Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
            information regarding the terms of the Convertible
            Notes.
          



            (2)
          

            Amounts are exclusive of any related discount.
          



            (3)
          

            Represents estimated future interest payments on
            borrowings, based on applicable interest rates as of
            December 31, 2011.
          



       
    




              48
              








               
            




       
    

      We exclude Match funded liabilities from the contractual
      obligation table above because it represents non-recourse
      debt that has been collateralized by match funded advances
      which are not available to satisfy general claims against
      Ocwen. Except for a guarantee by OLS of payment by one of the
      special purpose entities (SPEs), holders of the notes issued
      by the SPEs have no recourse against any assets other than
      the match funded advances that serve as collateral for the
      securitized debt. OLS’ liability under the guaranty is
      limited to 10% of the notes outstanding at the end of the
      revolving period of the related match funded financing
      facility. At December 31, 2011, the debt outstanding under
      that facility was $130,492. Actual interest on match funded
      liabilities was $93,051 in 2011. Future interest may vary
      depending on utilization, changes in LIBOR and spreads and
      the execution of hedging strategies.
    

       
    

      We also exclude Secured borrowings – owed to
      securitization investors from the table above. The creditors
      of the trusts can look only to the loans and other assets of
      the trusts themselves for satisfaction of the debt and have
      no recourse against the assets of Ocwen. See Note 1 to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements—Securitizations of
      Residential Mortgage Loans for additional information.
    

 


      Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
    

       
    

      In the normal course of business, we engage in transactions
      with a variety of financial institutions and other companies
      that are not reflected on our balance sheet. We are subject
      to potential financial loss if the counterparties to our
      off-balance sheet transactions are unable to complete an
      agreed upon transaction. We seek to limit counterparty risk
      through financial analysis, dollar limits and other
      monitoring procedures. We have also entered into
      non-cancelable operating leases principally for our office
      facilities.
    

       
    

Derivatives. We record all derivative transactions at
      fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. We use these
      derivatives primarily to manage our interest rate risk as
      well as our exposure to changes in the value of the India
      Rupee. The notional amounts of our derivative contracts do
      not reflect our exposure to credit loss. See Note 19 to the
      Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
      regarding derivatives.
    

       
    

Involvement with SPEs. We use SPEs for a variety of
      purposes but principally in the financing of our servicing
      advances and in the securitization of mortgage loans.
    

       
    

      Our securitizations of mortgage loans were structured as
      sales. The SPEs to which we transferred the mortgage loans
      were QSPEs and, therefore under previous accounting rules,
      were not subject to consolidation through 2009. We have
      retained both subordinated and residual interests in these
      SPEs. Effective January 1, 2010, the accounting standards
      were amended to eliminate the concept of a QSPE. We
      reevaluated these QSPEs as well as all other potentially
      significant interests in other unconsolidated entities to
      determine if we should include them in our consolidated
      financial statements. We determined that four of these loan
      securitization trusts are VIEs and that we are the primary
      beneficiary. We have included these four trusts in our
      Consolidated Financial Statements effective January 1, 2010.
    

       
    

      We generally use match funded securitization facilities to
      finance our servicing advances. The SPEs to which the
      advances are transferred in the securitization transaction
      are included in our consolidated financial statements either
      because we have the majority equity interest in the SPE or
      because we are the primary beneficiary where the SPE is a
      VIE. The holders of the debt of these SPEs can look only to
      the assets of the SPEs for satisfaction of the debt and have
      no recourse against OCN. However, OLS has guaranteed the
      payment of the obligations of the issuer under one of our
      match funded facilities. The maximum amount payable under the
      guarantee is limited to 10% of the notes outstanding at the
      end of the facility’s revolving period on July 1, 2013.
    

       
    

VIEs. In addition to certain of our financing SPEs, we
      have invested in several other VIEs primarily in connection
      with purchases of whole loans. If we determine that we are
      the primary beneficiary of a VIE, we report the VIE in our
      consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

      RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
    

       
    

      Recent Accounting Pronouncements
    

       
    

      Listed below are recent accounting pronouncements that we
      have not yet adopted. These pronouncements are not expected
      to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial
      Statements in 2012. For additional information regarding
      these pronouncements, see Note 1 to the Consolidated
      Financial Statements.
    

       
    




              49
              








               
            




       
    

ASU 2011-03 (ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing):
      Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase
      Agreements. Repurchase agreements are accounted for as
      secured financings if the transferee has not surrendered
      control over the transferred assets. The amendments in this
      ASU remove from the assessment of effective control the
      criterion relating to the transferor’s ability to
      repurchase or redeem financial assets on substantially the
      agreed terms, even in the event of default by the transferee.
      The amendments in this ASU also eliminate the requirement to
      demonstrate that the transferor possesses adequate collateral
      to fund substantially all the cost of purchasing replacement
      financial assets. The guidance in this ASU is effective for
      the first interim or annual period beginning on or after
      December 15, 2011, with early adoption prohibited.
    

       
    

ASU 2011-04 (ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement): Amendments
      to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure
      Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The amendments in
      this ASU explain how to measure fair value. They do not
      require additional fair value measurements and are not
      intended to establish valuation standards or affect valuation
      practices outside of financial reporting. The amendments
      clarify FASB’s intent about the application of existing
      fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and
      prescribe certain additional disclosures about fair value
      measurements. The provisions of this ASU are effective for
      interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15,
      2011, with early adoption prohibited.
    

       
    

ASU 2011-05 (ASC 220, Comprehensive Income): Presentation
      of Comprehensive Income, Current U.S. GAAP allows
      reporting entities three alternatives for presenting other
      comprehensive income and its components in financial
      statements. One of those presentation options is to present
      the components of other comprehensive income as part of the
      statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. This ASU
      eliminates that option. This ASU also requires consecutive
      presentation of the statement of net income and other
      comprehensive income and requires that an entity present
      reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income
      to net income by component on the face of both the statement
      in which net income is presented and the statement in which
      other comprehensive income is presented. This latter
      provision was indefinitely deferred by ASU 2011-12 on
      December 23, 2011. The provisions of this ASU are effective
      for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15,
      2011.
    

       
    

      In addition to the recently issued accounting pronouncements
      listed above that we have not yet adopted, listed below are
      accounting pronouncements we recently adopted that did not
      have a material affect but resulted in additional disclosures
      in the notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
    

 


ASU No. 2010-06 (ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and
      Disclosures): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
      Measurements. ASU 2010-06 revised the disclosure
      requirements concerning fair value measurements. Effective
      for the period ended March 31, 2011, the presentation of
      purchases, sales, issuances and settlements within Level 3
      are required to be presented on a gross rather than net
      basis. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
      for our fair value disclosures related to financial
      instruments.
    

       
    

ASU No. 2010-20 (ASC 310, Receivables): Disclosures
      about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the
      Allowance for Credit Losses. ASU 2010-20 requires
      disclosure of disaggregated information for both the
      financing receivables and the related allowance for credit
      losses. The disclosure requirements specifically do not apply
      to trade receivables with contractual maturities of one year
      or less that arose from the sale of goods or services, except
      for credit card receivables. The disclosure requirements also
      do not apply to mortgage banking activities, including the
      long-term servicing of loans, and certain disclosures are not
      required for receivables measured at the lower of cost or
      market. The disclosures about activity that occurred during a
      reporting period, such as the allowance rollforward and
      modification disclosures became effective for our financial
      statements for the interim period beginning January 1, 2011.
      See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our
      disclosures related to receivables.
    

       
    

ASU 2011-02 (ASC 310, Receivables): A Creditor’s
      Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt
      Restructuring. The amendments in this ASU clarify the
      guidance on a creditor’s determination of whether a
      restructuring or modification of a receivable meets the
      criteria to be considered a troubled debt restructuring. If
      the restructuring is considered a troubled debt
      restructuring, creditors are required to make certain
      disclosures in their financial statements and the calculation
      of the allowance for credit losses for that receivable
      follows the impairment guidance specific to impaired
      receivables. The amendments in this ASU became effective July
      1, 2011.
    

 


ASU 2011-08 (ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and
      Other): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. With this ASU,
      the FASB has taken action to reduce the cost and complexity
      of the annual goodwill impairment test by providing reporting
      entities with the option of performing a
      “qualitative” assessment of impairment to
      determine if any further quantitative testing for impairment
      may be necessary. An entity can choose to apply the
      qualitative assessment to all, some or none of its reporting
      units. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning
      after December 15, 2011; however, an entity can early adopt
      the revised standard even if its annual impairment test date
      is before September 15, 2011, the date that the ASU was
      issued. We adopt the revised standard during the fourth
      quarter of 2011. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements for information regarding our accounting policy
      for goodwill impairment testing.
    

       
    




              50
              








               
            




       
    



ITEM 7A.


QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT
            MARKET RISK (Dollars in thousands)




       
    

      Market risk includes liquidity risk, interest rate risk and
      foreign currency exchange rate risk. Market risk also
      reflects the risk of declines in the valuation of financial
      instruments and the collateral underlying loans. Our
      Investment Committee reviews significant transactions that
      may impact market risk and is authorized to utilize a wide
      variety of techniques and strategies to manage market risk
      including, in particular, interest rate and foreign currency
      exchange rate risk.
    

       
    

Liquidity Risk


 


      We are exposed to liquidity risk primarily because the cash
      required to support the Servicing business includes the
      requirement to make advances pursuant to servicing contracts.
      In general, we finance our operations through operating cash
      flow, match funding agreements and secured borrowings. See
      “Overview - Liquidity Summary” and
      “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for additional
      discussion of liquidity.
    

       
    

Interest Rate Risk


 


      As explained in the Overview – Interest Rate Risk
      Summary section, interest rate risk is a function of (i) the
      timing and (ii) the dollar amount of assets and liabilities
      that re-price at each point in time. Based on December 31,
      2011 balances, if interest rates increase by 1% on our
      variable rate advance financing and interest earning cash and
      float balances, we estimate a net positive impact of
      approximately $13,621 resulting from an increase of $6,998 in
      annual interest income and a decrease of $6,623 in annual
      interest expense. The decrease in interest expense reflects a
      reduction of approximately $11,920 due to the anticipated
      effects of our hedging activities. See the tables below and
      Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
      additional information regarding our use of derivatives.
    

 


      The tables below present the notional amounts of our
      financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in
      interest rates categorized by expected maturity and the
      related fair value of these instruments at December 31, 2011
      and 2010. We use certain assumptions to estimate the expected
      maturity and fair value of these instruments. We base
      expected maturities upon contractual maturity and projected
      repayments and prepayments of principal based on our
      historical experience. The actual maturities of these
      instruments could vary substantially if future prepayments
      differ from our historical experience. Average interest rates
      are based on the contractual terms of the instrument and, in
      the case of variable rate instruments, reflect estimates of
      applicable forward rates. The average presented is the
      weighted average.
    

       
    




              51
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          

            Expected Maturity Date at December 31, 2011
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2012
          

             
          

             
          

            2013
          

             
          

             
          

            2014
          

             
          

             
          

            2015
          

             
          

             
          

            2016
          

             
          

             
          

            There- after
          

             
          

             
          

            Total Balance
          

             
          

             
          

            Fair Value (1)
          

             
          



            Rate-Sensitive Assets:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest-earning cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            86,420
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            86,420
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            86,420
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


0.42


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


0.42


%


 


 


 


 




            Loans held for resale (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            7,464
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,930
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,956
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,457
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,181
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,645
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


8.13


%


 


 


8.27


%


 


 


7.82


%


 


 


8.07


%


 


 


7.84


%


 


 


7.84


%


 


 


8.06


%


 


 


 


 




            Interest–earning collateral and debt service
            accounts
          

             
          

             
          

            142,058
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            142,058
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            142,058
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


0.10


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


0.10


%


 


 


 


 




            Total rate-sensitive assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            235,942
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,930
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,956
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,457
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,181
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,645
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            249,111
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            249,111
          

             
          



Percent of total


 


 


94.71


%


 


 


1.98


%


 


 


1.19


%


 


 


0.59


%


 


 


0.47


%


 


 


1.06


%


 


 


100.00


%


 


 


 


 




             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Rate-Sensitive Liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Fixed rate
          

             
          

            $
          

            190,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,844,043
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,034,043
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,044,223
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


4.02


%


 


 


3.41


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3.47


%


 


 


 


 




            Variable interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

            11,687
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            513,221
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            524,908
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            524,908
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


2.30


%


 


 


3.64


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3.61


%


 


 


 


 




            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            59,296
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            54,994
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            55,303
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            55,611
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            315,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            540,369
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            550,860
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


6.66


%


 


 


7.00


%


 


 


7.00


%


 


 


7.00


%


 


 


7.00


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


6.96


%


 


 


 


 




            Debt securities (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            56,435
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            92,125
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


3.25


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


10.88


%


 


 


5.66


%


 


 


 


 




            Total rate-sensitive liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            317,418
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,412,258
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            55,303
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            55,611
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            315,165
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,181,874
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,212,116
          

             
          



Percent of total


 


 


9.98


%


 


 


75.81


%


 


 


1.74


%


 


 


1.75


%


 


 


9.90


%


 


 


0.82


%


 


 


100.00


%


 


 


 


 




             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Rate-Sensitive Derivative Financial Instruments:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest rate swaps
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Outstanding notional (4)
          

             
          

            $
          

            303,345
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            733,651
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            356,689
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,393,685
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (14,491
          

            )
          



            Average fixed rate (4)
          

             
          

             
          

1.03


%


 


 


1.54


%


 


 


0.84


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


1.25


%


 


 


             
          

             
          



            Interest rate cap
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Outstanding notional (5)
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,600,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,600,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,600
          

             
          



            Strike rate (5)
          

             
          

             
          

              —%
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

              —%
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.25
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.25
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Forward LIBOR curve (4)(5)
          

             
          

 


0.49


%


 


 


0.61


%


 


 


1.01


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



       
    




              52
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          

            Expected Maturity Date at December 31, 2010
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2012
          

             
          

             
          

            2013
          

             
          

             
          

            2014
          

             
          

             
          

            2015
          

             
          

             
          

            There- after
          

             
          

             
          

            Total Balance
          

             
          

             
          

            Fair Value (1)
          

             
          



            Rate-Sensitive Assets:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest-earning cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            31,221
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            31,221
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            31,221
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


0.50


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


0.50


%


 


 


 


 




            Loans held for resale (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            11,068
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,786
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,893
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,739
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,131
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,186
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


8.56


%


 


 


8.65


%


 


 


8.08


%


 


 


7.83


%


 


 


7.83


%


 


 


7.83


%


 


 


8.36


%


 


 


 


 




            Interest–earning collateral and debt service
            deposits
          

             
          

             
          

            111,972
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            111,972
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            111,972
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


0.17


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


0.17


%


 


 


 


 




            Total rate-sensitive assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            154,261
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,786
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,893
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,739
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,131
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,186
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            168,996
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            168,996
          

             
          



Percent of total


 


 


91.28


%


 


 


3.42


%


 


 


1.71


%


 


 


1.03


%


 


 


0.67


%


 


 


1.89


%


 


 


100.00


%


 


 


 


 




             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Rate-Sensitive Liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Fixed rate
          

             
          

            $
          

            160,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            190,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            60,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            410,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            413,947
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


3.59


%


 


 


4.02


%


 


 


4.14


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3.87


%


 


 


 


 




            Variable interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

            261,529
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            811,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,072,529
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,072,529
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


2.34


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


4.06


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3.64


%


 


 


 


 




            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            51,085
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            44,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            45,886
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            47,318
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            57,230
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            246,073
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            252,722
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


8.07


%


 


 


9.07


%


 


 


9.10


%


 


 


9.12


%


 


 


9.00


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


8.90


%


 


 


 


 




            Debt securities (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            56,435
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            75,325
          

             
          



Average interest rate


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


3.25


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


10.88


%


 


 


5.66


%


 


 


 


 




            Total rate-sensitive liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            472,614
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            234,554
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            916,886
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            103,753
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            57,230
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,811,156
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,814,523
          

             
          



Percent of total


 


 


26.09


%


 


 


12.95


%


 


 


50.62


%


 


 


5.73


%


 


 


3.16


%


 


 


1.45


%


 


 


100.00


%


 


 


 


 




             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Rate-Sensitive Derivative Financial Instruments:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest rate swaps:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Outstanding notional (4)
          

             
          

            $
          

            156,932
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            118,296
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            571,660
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            846,888
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,670
          

            )
          



            Average fixed rate (4)
          

             
          

 


1.77


%


 


 


1.55


%


 


 


1.77


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


1.74


%


 


 


             
          

             
          



            Forward LIBOR curve (4)
          

             
          

             
          

0.70


%


 


 


1.72


%


 


 


2.79


%


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


—


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


             
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
            additional fair value information for financial
            instruments.
          



            (2)
          

            Net of market valuation allowances and including
            non-performing loans.
          



            (3)
          

            The Convertible Notes mature on August 1, 2024.
            However, the tables above reflect an expected maturity
            date of March 28, 2012 because we provided notice of
            redemption to the holders on February 27, 2012 stating
            our election to redeem all of the outstanding
            Convertible notes on March 28, 2012. See Note 18 to the
            Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
            information regarding the terms of the Convertible
            Notes.
          



            (4)
          

            Represents interest rate swaps entered into to hedge
            our exposure to rising interest rates on variable rate
            match funded liabilities. The average fixed rate
            presented is the weighted average rate being paid to
            the counterparties. Ocwen receives interest based on
            1-Month LIBOR.
          



            (5)
          

            Represents an interest cap entered into to hedge
            against our exposure to rising interest rates on one of
            our match funded facilities. The strike rate is the
            rate above which 1-month LIBOR must rise in order for
            use to receive settlement payments.
          



       
    

      We exclude Loans – restricted for securitization
      investors and Secured borrowings – owed to
      securitization investors from the analysis of rate-sensitive
      asset and liabilities, above. The interest rate sensitive
      assets and liabilities of the consolidated trusts do not
      represent an interest rate risk for Ocwen. Ocwen has no
      obligation to provide financial support to the trusts. The
      creditors of the trusts can look only to the assets of the
      trusts themselves for satisfaction of the debt and have no
      recourse against the assets of Ocwen. Similarly, the general
      creditors of Ocwen have no claim on the assets of the trusts.
      Our exposure to loss is limited to the carrying values of our
      investments in the residual and subordinate securities of the
      trusts. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial
      Statements—Securitizations of Residential Mortgage
      Loans for additional information.
    

 


      Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk
    

       
    

      We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk in
      connection with our investment in non-U.S. dollar functional
      currency operations to the extent that our foreign exchange
      positions remain unhedged. Our operations in India and
      Uruguay expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk, but
      we do not consider this risk significant. During 2010, we
      entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge
      against the effect of changes in the value of the India Rupee
      on recurring amounts payable to our India subsidiary, OFSPL,
      for services rendered to U.S. affiliates. We did not
      designate these contracts as hedges. These contracts expired
      in April 2011, and we entered into new contracts in August
      2011. We did not designate the new contracts as hedges, and
      the notional balance of these contracts was $46,200 at
      December 31, 2011. In January 2012, we terminated these
      contracts prior to their scheduled maturity after determining
      that the cost of maintaining the contracts exceeded our
      probable exposure to exchange rate risk and recognized a gain
      of $3,359.
    

       
    




              53
              








               
            






       
    



ITEM 8.


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA




       
    

      The information required by this section is contained in the
      Consolidated Financial Statements of Ocwen Financial
      Corporation and Report of Deloitte & Touche LLP,
      Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm,
      beginning on Page F-1.
    

       
    



ITEM 9.


CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
            ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE




       
    

      None.
    

       
    



ITEM 9A.


CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES




       
    

      Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures
    

       
    

      Our management, under the supervision of and with the
      participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
      Financial Officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of our
      disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined
      in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as of
      the end of the period covered by this Annual Report. Based on
      such evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
      Financial Officer have concluded that, as of the end of such
      period, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.
    

       
    

      Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
      Reporting
    

       
    

      Our management is responsible for establishing and
      maintaining adequate internal control over financial
      reporting, as that term is defined in Exchange Act Rules
      13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f).
    

       
    

      Under the supervision of and with the participation of our
      management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
      Financial Officer, we have conducted an evaluation of our
      internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
      2010, based on the framework set forth by the Committee of
      Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in
      Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on that
      evaluation, our management concluded that, as of December 31,
      2011, internal control over financial reporting is effective
      based on criteria established in Internal
      Control—Integrated Framework issued by the COSO.
    

       
    

      The effectiveness of OCN’s internal control over
      financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 has been audited
      by Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered
      certified public accounting firm, as stated in their report
      that appears herein.
    

       
    

      Limitations on the Effectiveness of Controls
    

       
    

      A company’s internal control over financial reporting
      is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
      regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
      preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
      accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in
      the United States of America. A company’s internal
      control over financial reporting includes those policies and
      procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records
      that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
      transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
      (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
      recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
      statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
      accepted in the United States of America and that receipts
      and expenditures of the company are being made only in
      accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
      the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
      prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,
      use or disposition of the company’s assets that could
      have a material effect on the financial statements.
    

       
    

      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
      financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
      In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness
      to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
      become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that
      the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
      deteriorate.
    

       
    

      Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting
    

       
    

      There have not been any changes in our internal control over
      financial reporting during our fiscal quarter ended December
      31, 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably
      likely to materially affect, our internal control over
      financial reporting.
    

       
    



ITEM 9B.


OTHER INFORMATION




       
    

      There was no information required to be reported on Form 8-K
      during the fourth quarter of the year covered by this Form
      10-K that was not so reported.
    

       
    




              54
              








               
            




       
    

PART III
    

       
    



ITEM 10.


DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE
            GOVERNANCE




       
    

      The information contained in our definitive Proxy Statement
      with respect to our Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held
      on May 9, 2012 and as filed with the SEC on or about March
      30, 2012 (the 2012 Proxy Statement) under the captions
      “Election of Directors—Nominees for
      Director,” “Executive Officers Who Are Not
      Directors,” “Board of Directors and Corporate
      Governance—Committees of the Board of
      Directors—Audit committee”, “Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Related
      Shareholder Matters—Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
      Reporting Compliance” and “Board of Directors and
      Corporate Governance—Code of Ethics” is
      incorporated herein by reference.
    

       
    



ITEM 11.


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION




       
    

      The information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under
      the captions “Executive Compensation” and
      “Board of Directors Compensation” is incorporated
      herein by reference.
    

       
    



ITEM 12.


SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
            MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS




       
    

      The information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under
      the captions “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
      Owners and Related Shareholder Matters—Beneficial
      Ownership of Common Stock” and “Equity
      Compensation Plan Information” is incorporated herein
      by reference.
    

       
    



ITEM 13.


CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND
            DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE




       
    

      The information contained in our 2012 Proxy Statement under
      the captions “Board of Directors and Corporate
      Governance—Independence of Directors” and
      “Business Relationships and Related Transactions”
      is incorporated herein by reference.
    

       
    



ITEM 14.


PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES




       
    

      The information required by this item is included in our 2012
      Proxy Statement under the caption “Ratification of
      Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.
    

       
    

PART IV
    

       
    



ITEM 15.


EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES




             
          

             
          



       
    

(1) and (2) Financial Statements and Schedules. The
      information required by this section is contained in the
      Consolidated Financial Statements of Ocwen Financial
      Corporation and Report of Deloitte & Touche LLP,
      Independent Registered Certified Public Accounting Firm,
      beginning on Page F-1.
    

       
    



            (3)
          

Exhibits. (Exhibits marked with a “ *
            “ denote management contracts or compensatory
            plans or agreements)
          



             
          

            2.1
          

            Agreement of Merger dated as of July 25, 1999 among
            Ocwen Financial Corporation, Ocwen Asset Investment
            Corp. and Ocwen Acquisition Company (1)
          



             
          

            2.2
          

            Separation Agreement, dated as of August 10, 2009, by
            and between Ocwen Financial Corporation and Altisource
            Portfolio Solutions S.A. (2)
          



             
          

            2.3
          

            Purchase Agreement dated as of June 5, 2011, by and
            between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Ocwen
            Financial Corporation † (3)
          



             
          

            2.4
          

            Purchase Agreement dated as of October 19, 2011, by and
            among Morgan Stanley (solely for purposes of Article 5,
            Section 7.4, Article 11 and Article 12), SCI Services,
            Inc., Saxon Capital Holdings, Inc., Morgan Stanley
            Mortgage Capital Holdings, LLC and Ocwen Financial
            Corporation † (4)
          



             
          

            3.1
          

            Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation (5)
          



             
          

            3.2
          

            Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation (6)
          



             
          

            3.3
          

            Articles of Correction (6)
          



             
          

            3.4
          

            Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation (7)
          



             
          

            3.5
          

            Bylaws of Ocwen Financial Corporation (8)
          



             
          

            4.0
          

            Form of Certificate of Common Stock (5)
          



             
          

            4.1
          

            Certificate of Trust of Ocwen Capital Trust I (9)
          



             
          

            4.2
          

            Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Ocwen
            Capital Trust I (9)
          



             
          

            4.3
          

            Form of Capital Security of Ocwen Capital Trust I
            (included in Exhibit 4.4) (9)
          



             
          

            4.4
          

            Form of Indenture relating to 10.875% Junior
            Subordinated Debentures due 2027 of OCN (9)
          



       
    




              55
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

            4.5
          

            Form of 10.875% Junior Subordinated Debentures due 2027
            of OCN (included in Exhibit 4.6) (9)
          



             
          

            4.6
          

            Form of Guarantee of OCN relating to the Capital
            Securities of Ocwen Capital Trust I (9)
          



             
          

            4.7
          

            Indenture dated as of July 28, 2004, between OCN and
            the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee
            (10)
          



             
          

            4.8
          

            Bylaws of Ocwen Financial Corporation (8)
          



             
          

            10.1*
          

            Ocwen Financial Corporation 1996 Stock Plan for
            Directors, as amended (11)
          



             
          

            10.2*
          

            Ocwen Financial Corporation 1998 Annual Incentive Plan
            (12)
          



             
          

            10.3
          

            Compensation and Indemnification Agreement, dated as of
            May 6, 1999, between Ocwen Asset Investment Corp. (OAC)
            and the independent committee of the Board of Directors
            (13)
          



             
          

            10.4
          

            Indemnity agreement, dated August 24, 1999, among OCN
            and OAC’s directors (14)
          



             
          

            10.5*
          

            Amended Ocwen Financial Corporation 1991 Non-Qualified
            Stock Option Plan, dated October 26, 1999 (14)
          



             
          

            10.6
          

            First Amendment to Agreement, dated March 30, 2000
            between HCT Investments, Inc. and OAIC Partnership I,
            L.P. (14)
          



             
          

            10.7*
          

            Ocwen Financial Corporation Deferral Plan for
            Directors, dated March 7, 2005 (15)
          



             
          

            10.8
          

            Collateral Trust Agreement, dated June 28, 2005,
            between OCN and the Bank of New York Trust Company,
            N.A. (16)
          



             
          

            10.9
          

            Guaranty, dated June 28, 2005, from OCN to the
            Guaranteed Parties (16)
          



             
          

            10.10
          

            Cash Collateral Agreement, dated June 28, 2005, among
            OCN, Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as collateral
            Trustee and Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as
            Account Bank (16)
          



             
          

            10.11*
          

            Ocwen Financial Corporation 2007 Equity Incentive Plan
            dated May 10, 2007 (17)
          



             
          

            10.12
          

            Tax Matters Agreement, dated as of August 10, 2009, by
            and between Ocwen Financial Corporation and Altisource
            Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.13
          

            Transition Services Agreement, dated as of August 10,
            2009, by and between Ocwen Financial Corporation and
            Altisource Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.14
          

            First Amendment to the Transition Services Agreement,
            dated as of August 10, 2011, by and between Ocwen
            Financial Corporation and Altisource Solutions S.à
            r.l. (18)
          



             
          

            10.15
          

            Employee Matters Agreement, dated as of August 10,
            2009, by and between Ocwen Financial Corporation and
            Altisource Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.16
          

            Technology Products Services Agreement, dated as of
            August 10, 2009, by and between Ocwen Financial
            Corporation and Altisource Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.17
          

            Services Agreement, dated as of August 10, 2009, by and
            between Ocwen Financial Corporation and Altisource
            Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.18
          

            Data Center and Disaster Recovery Agreement, dated as
            of August 10, 2009, by and between Ocwen Financial
            Corporation and Altisource Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.19
          

            Intellectual Property Agreement, dated as of August 10,
            2009, by and between Ocwen Financial Corporation and
            Altisource Solutions S.à r.l. (2)
          



             
          

            10.20
          

            Senior Secured Term Loan Facility Agreement, dated as
            of July 29, 2010, by and among Ocwen Financial
            Corporation, certain subsidiaries of Ocwen Financial
            Corporation, the lenders that are parties to the
            agreement from time to time and Barclays Bank PLC (19)
          



             
          

            10.21
          

            Pledge and Security Agreement, dated as of July 29,
            2010, by and between Ocwen Financial Corporation, Ocwen
            Loan Servicing, LLC and each of the other subsidiaries
            of Ocwen Financial Corporation that is a party to the
            agreement from time to time and Barclays Bank PLC (19)
          



             
          

            10.22
          

            Senior Secured Term Loan Facility Agreement dated as of
            September 1, 2011, by and among Ocwen Financial
            Corporation, as Borrower, Certain Subsidiaries of Ocwen
            Financial Corporation, as Subsidiary Guarantors, the
            Lender Parties thereto, and Barclays Bank PLC, as
            Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent (20)
          



             
          

            10.23
          

            Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of September 1,
            2011, between each of the Grantors party thereto and
            Barclays Bank PLC, as Collateral Agent (20)
          



             
          

            11.1
          

            Computation of earnings per share (21)
          



             
          

            12.1
          

            Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (filed herewith)
          



             
          

            21.0
          

            Subsidiaries (filed herewith)
          



             
          

            23.1
          

            Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting
            Firm (filed herewith)
          



             
          

            31.1
          

            Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant
            to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed
            herewith)
          



       
    




              56
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

            31.2
          

            Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant
            to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed
            herewith)
          



             
          

            32.1
          

            Certification of the Chief Executive Officer pursuant
            to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
            Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed
            herewith)
          



             
          

            32.2
          

            Certification of the Chief Financial Officer pursuant
            to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to
            Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (filed
            herewith)
          



             
          

            101.INS
          

            XBRL Instance Document (furnished herewith)
          



             
          

            101.SCH
          

            XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document (furnished
            herewith)
          



             
          

            101.CAL
          

            XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document
            (furnished herewith)
          



             
          

            101.DEF
          

            XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document
            (furnished herewith)
          



             
          

            101.LAB
          

            XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document
            (furnished herewith)
          



             
          

            101.PRE
          

            XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document
            (furnished herewith)
          



       
    




       
    



            †
          

             
          

            The schedules referenced in the Purchase Agreement have
            been omitted in accordance with Item 601 (b)(2) of
            Regulation S-K. A copy of any referenced schedules will
            be furnished supplementally to the SEC upon request.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



            (1)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from a similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Current
            Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 26, 1999.
          



            (2)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Form 8-K
            filed with the SEC on August 12, 2009.
          



            (3)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference to the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Form 8-K
            filed with the SEC on June 6, 2011.
          



            (4)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 of the
            Registrant’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
            October 29, 2011.
          



            (5)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit filed in connection with the Registrant’s
            Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-5153)
            as amended, declared effective by the SEC on September
            25, 1996.
          



            (6)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
            2010.
          



            (7)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 of the
            Registrant’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
            January 6, 2011.
          



            (8)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of the
            Registrant’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
            August 1, 2011.
          



            (9)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit filed in connection with our Registration
            Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-28889), as amended,
            declared effective by the SEC on August 6, 1997.
          



            (10)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with Registrant’s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June
            30, 2004.
          



            (11)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit filed in connection with the Registrant’s
            Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No.
            333-44999), effective when filed with the SEC on
            January 28, 1998.
          



            (12)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit to our definitive Proxy Statement with respect
            to our 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders as filed
            with the SEC on March 28, 2003.
          



            (13)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from OAC’s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
            September 30, 1999.
          



            (14)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended
            March 31, 2000.
          



            (15)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Annual
            Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
            2004.
          



            (16)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June
            30, 2005.
          



            (17)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit to our definitive Proxy Statement with respect
            to our 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders as filed
            with the SEC on March 30, 2007.
          



            (18)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the
            Registrant’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on
            August 16, 2011.
          



            (19)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from the similarly described
            exhibit included with Registrant’s Quarterly
            Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June
            30, 2010.
          



            (20)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference to the similarly described
            exhibit included with the Registrant’s Form 8-K
            filed with the SEC on September 8, 2011.
          



            (21)
          

             
          

            Incorporated by reference from “Note 25 Basic and
            Diluted Earnings per Share” on page F-45 of our
            Consolidated Financial Statements.
          



       
    






              57
              








               
            




       
    

Signatures
    

       
    

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant
      has duly caused this report to be signed on our behalf by the
      undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            Ocwen Financial Corporation
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            By:
          

            /s/ Ronald M. Faris
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            Ronald M. Faris
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            President and Chief Executive Officer
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            (duly authorized representative)
          

             
          



            Date: February 29, 2012
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



       
    

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
      of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the
      following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
      capacities and on the dates indicated:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ William C. Erbey
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            William C. Erbey, Executive Chairman of the Board of
            Directors
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ Ronald M. Faris
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            Ronald M. Faris, President, Chief Executive Officer and
            Director (principal executive officer)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ Ronald J. Korn
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            Ronald J. Korn, Director
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ William H. Lacy
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            William H. Lacy, Director
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ Barry N. Wish
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            Barry N. Wish, Director
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ David B. Reiner
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            David B. Reiner, Director
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ Robert A. Salcetti
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            Robert A. Salcetti, Director
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            /s/ John P. Van Vlack
          

             
          

             
          

            Date: February 29, 2012
          



            John P. Van Vlack, Executive Vice President, Chief
            Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer
            (principal financial officer)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



       
    






              58
              








               
            








       
    

OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


       
    

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED CERTIFIED PUBLIC
      ACCOUNTING FIRM


       
    

December 31, 2011


       
    













               
            




       
    

OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


       
    

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
      SCHEDULES


       
    

December 31, 2011


       
    





             
          

            Page
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Report of Independent Registered Public
            Accounting Firm


             
          

            F - 2
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Report of Independent Registered Public
            Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial
            Reporting


             
          

            F - 3
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



            Consolidated Financial Statements:
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Consolidated Balance Sheets at December
            31, 2011 and 2010


             
          

            F - 4
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Consolidated Statements of Operations
            for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
            2009


             
          

            F - 5
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Consolidated Statements of
            Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,
            2011, 2010 and 2009


             
          

            F - 6
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Consolidated Statements of Changes in
            Equity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
            2009


             
          

            F - 7
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
            for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
            2009


             
          

            F - 8
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



Notes to Consolidated Financial
            Statements


             
          

            F - 10
          



       
    




              F-1
              








               
            




       
    

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
      REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


       
    

      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Ocwen Financial
      Corporation:
    

       
    

      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
      of Ocwen Financial Corporation and subsidiaries (the
      “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and
      the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
      equity, comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the
      three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These
      financial statements are the responsibility of the
      Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
      an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
    

       
    

      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of
      the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
      States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
      audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
      financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
      audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
      supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
      statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
      principles used and significant estimates made by management,
      as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
      presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
      basis for our opinion.
    

       
    

      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements
      present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
      position of Ocwen Financial Corporation and subsidiaries as
      of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of their
      operations and their cash flows for the three years in the
      period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting
      principles generally accepted in the United States of
      America.
    

       
    

      As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
      statements, the Company adopted new accounting provisions
      with respect to consolidation of variable interest entities
      effective January 1, 2010.
    

       
    

      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
      Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
      the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
      as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in
      Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
      Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission and our report dated February 29, 2012 expressed
      an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal
      control over financial reporting.
    

       
    



            /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
          

             
          



             
          

             
          



            Atlanta, Georgia
          

             
          



            February 29, 2012
          

             
          



       
    




              F-2
              








               
            




 


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
      REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM


       
    

      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Ocwen Financial
      Corporation:
    

       
    

      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting
      of Ocwen Financial Corporation and subsidiaries (the
      “Company”) as of December 31, 2011, based on
      criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated
      Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
      of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is
      responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
      financial reporting and for its assessment of the
      effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
      included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal
      Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
      express an opinion on the Company’s internal control
      over financial reporting based on our audit.
    

       
    

      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of
      the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
      States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
      audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective
      internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
      all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
      understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
      assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing
      and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
      internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing
      such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
      circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
      reasonable basis for our opinion.
    

       
    

      A company’s internal control over financial reporting
      is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the
      company’s principal executive and principal financial
      officers, or persons performing similar functions, and
      effected by the company’s board of directors,
      management, and other personnel to provide reasonable
      assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
      and the preparation of financial statements for external
      purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
      principles. A company’s internal control over financial
      reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
      pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
      detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
      dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
      reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
      necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
      accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
      that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
      only in accordance with authorizations of management and
      directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
      assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
      unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
      company’s assets that could have a material effect on
      the financial statements.
    

       
    

      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over
      financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion
      or improper management override of controls, material
      misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or
      detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any
      evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over
      financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk
      that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in
      conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
      policies or procedures may deteriorate.
    

       
    

      In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material
      respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
      as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in
      Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
      Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
      Commission.
    

       
    

      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the
      Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
      the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year
      ended December 31, 2011 of the Company and our report dated
      February 29, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
      consolidated financial statements (and includes an
      explanatory paragraph related to the adoption of new
      accounting provisions effective January 1, 2010 with respect
      to consolidation of variable interest entities).
    

       
    



            /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
          

             
          



             
          

             
          



            Atlanta, Georgia
          

             
          



            February 29, 2012
          

             
          






              F-3
              








               
            




       
    

OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
      AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)


       
    



             
          

             
          


December 31,


2011



 


 



December 31,


2010



             
          



            Assets
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            144,234
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            127,796
          

             
          



            Restricted cash – for securitization investors
          

             
          

             
          

            675
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            727
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale, at lower of cost or fair value
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            103,591
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            184,833
          

             
          



            Match funded advances
          

             
          

             
          

            3,629,911
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,924,052
          

             
          



            Loans, net – restricted for securitization
            investors
          

             
          

             
          

            58,560
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,340
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights, net
          

             
          

             
          

            293,152
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            193,985
          

             
          



            Receivables, net
          

             
          

             
          

            83,202
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            69,518
          

             
          



            Deferred tax assets, net
          

             
          

             
          

            107,968
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            138,716
          

             
          



            Goodwill
          

             
          

             
          

            78,432
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,810
          

             
          



            Premises and equipment, net
          

             
          

             
          

            7,350
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,475
          

             
          



            Investments in unconsolidated entities
          

             
          

             
          

            23,507
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,072
          

             
          



            Other assets
          

             
          

             
          

            185,942
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            158,282
          

             
          



            Total assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,737,157
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,921,409
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Liabilities and Equity
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,558,951
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,482,529
          

             
          



            Secured borrowings – owed to securitization
            investors
          

             
          

             
          

            53,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,705
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            540,369
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            246,073
          

             
          



            Debt securities
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          



            Other liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            158,649
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            142,731
          

             
          



            Total liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            3,393,846
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,016,592
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Commitments and Contingencies (Note 30)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Equity
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Ocwen Financial Corporation stockholders’ equity
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Common stock, $.01 par value; 200,000,000 shares
            authorized; 129,899,288 and 100,726,947 shares issued
            and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
            respectively
          

             
          

             
          

            1,299
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,007
          

             
          



            Additional paid-in capital
          

             
          

             
          

            826,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            467,500
          

             
          



            Retained earnings
          

             
          

             
          

            523,787
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            445,456
          

             
          



            Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income
            taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,896
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,392
          

            )
          



            Total Ocwen Financial Corporation (OCN)
            stockholders’ equity
          

             
          

             
          

            1,343,311
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            904,571
          

             
          



            Non-controlling interest in subsidiaries
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            246
          

             
          



            Total equity
          

             
          

             
          

            1,343,311
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            904,817
          

             
          



            Total liabilities and equity
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,737,157
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,921,409
          

             
          



       
    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      consolidated financial statements


       
    




              F-4
              








               
            




 


OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
      AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


(Dollars in thousands, except per share data)


       
    



             
          

             
          


For the Years Ended December 31,



 




 


 



2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Revenue
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing and subservicing fees
          

             
          

            $
          

            458,875
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            321,699
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            264,467
          

             
          



            Process management fees
          

             
          

             
          

            34,233
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,704
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            108,082
          

             
          



            Other revenues
          

             
          

             
          

            2,822
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,978
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,179
          

             
          



            Total revenue
          

             
          

             
          

            495,930
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            360,381
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            380,728
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Compensation and benefits
          

             
          

             
          

            99,844
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            87,644
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            87,620
          

             
          



            Amortization of servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            42,996
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,455
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,228
          

             
          



            Servicing and origination
          

             
          

             
          

            8,254
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,851
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            38,653
          

             
          



            Technology and communications
          

             
          

             
          

            33,617
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,644
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,066
          

             
          



            Professional services
          

             
          

             
          

            19,961
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            42,837
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,200
          

             
          



            Occupancy and equipment
          

             
          

             
          

            23,759
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,924
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            18,985
          

             
          



            Other operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            11,153
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,119
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,902
          

             
          



            Total operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            239,584
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            236,474
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            235,654
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            256,346
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            123,907
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            145,074
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Other income (expense)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest income
          

             
          

             
          

            8,876
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,859
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,786
          

             
          



            Interest expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (132,770
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (85,923
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (62,954
          

            )
          



            Gain (loss) on trading securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,968
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            11,187
          

             
          



            Loss on loans held for resale, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,529
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,865
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (11,132
          

            )
          



            Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated entities
          

             
          

             
          

            (746
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,371
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,933
          

            )
          



            Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,182
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            2,773
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,233
          

             
          



            Other expense, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (133,351
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (84,753
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (51,813
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations before income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            122,995
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            39,154
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            93,261
          

             
          



            Income tax expense
          

             
          

             
          

            44,672
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,545
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            96,110
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,609
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,849
          

            )
          



            Income from discontinued operations, net of income
            taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,383
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,121
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,992
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            272
          

             
          



            Net loss (income) attributable to non-controlling
            interests
          

             
          

             
          

            8
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,331
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,984
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            297
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic earnings per share
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.75
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.34
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.04
          

            )
          



            Income from discontinued operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.75
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.38
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Diluted earnings per share
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.71
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.32
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.04
          

            )
          



            Income from discontinued operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.71
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.36
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Weighted average common shares outstanding
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic
          

             
          

             
          

            104,507,055
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100,273,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          



            Diluted
          

             
          

             
          

            111,855,961
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            107,483,015
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          



       
    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      consolidated financial statements


       
    




              F-5
              








               
            




 


OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
      AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME


(Dollars in thousands)


       
    



             
          

             
          


For the Years Ended December 31,



 




 


 



2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,992
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            272
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Other comprehensive income (loss), net of income taxes:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Unrealized foreign currency translation gain (loss)
            arising during the year (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            21
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (58
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (254
          

            )
          



            Reclassification adjustment for foreign currency
            translation loss included in net income (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,751
          

            )
          



            Net change in unrealized foreign currency translation
            gain (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            21
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (58
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,005
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Change in deferred gain (loss) on cash flow hedges
            arising during the year (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            589
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,335
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Reclassification adjustment for losses on cash flow
            hedges included in net income (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            890
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            96
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net change in deferred loss on cash flow hedges
          

             
          

             
          

            1,479
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,239
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Other (5)
          

             
          

             
          

            5
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of income
            taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            1,505
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,277
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,005
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Comprehensive income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            79,828
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            28,715
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,733
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Comprehensive loss attributable to non-controlling
            interests
          

             
          

             
          

            (1
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            6
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            154
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            79,827
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            28,721
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (1,579
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

             
          

            Net of tax benefit (expense) of $(7), $26 and $148 for
            2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

             
          

            Net of tax benefit of $1,029 for 2009.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

             
          

            Net of tax benefit (expense) of $(340) and $5,251 for
            2011 and 2010, respectively.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

             
          

            Net of tax expense of $503 and $54 for 2011 and 2010,
            respectively.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



            (5)
          

             
          

            Net of tax benefit of $3 and $12 for 2011 and 2010,
            respectively.
          



       
    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      consolidated financial statements


       
    




              F-6
              








               
            




       
    

OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
      AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY


FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009


(Dollars in thousands)


       
    



             
          

             
          


OCN Shareholders



 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 



Common Stock



 


 



Additional


Paid-in



 


 



 


Retained



 


 



Accumulated


Other


Comprehensive


Income (Loss),



 


 


Non-
            controlling
            Interest in


 


 


 


 




 


 



Shares



 


 



Amount



 


 



Capital



 


 



Earnings



 


 



Net of Taxes



 


 



Subsidiaries



 


 



Total



             
          



            Balance at December 31, 2008
          

             
          

             
          

            62,716,530
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            627
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            201,831
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            404,901
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,876
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            406
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            609,641
          

             
          



            Net income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            297
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (25
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            272
          

             
          



            Net assets distributed in connection with the spin-off
            of Altisource Portfolio Solutions S.A. (formerly Ocwen
            Solutions)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (72,146
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (72,146
          

            )
          



            Issuance of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            37,671,500
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            377
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            334,752
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            335,129
          

             
          



            Repurchase of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,000,000
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (10
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (10,990
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (11,000
          

            )
          



            Repurchase of 3.25% Convertible Notes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4
          

            )
          



            Issuance of common stock awards to employees
          

             
          

             
          

            29,907
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (138
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (138
          

            )
          



            Exercise of common stock options
          

             
          

             
          

            526,749
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,740
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,746
          

             
          



            Equity-based compensation
          

             
          

             
          

            12,147
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,497
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,497
          

             
          



            Other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,005
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (129
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,134
          

            )
          



            Balance at December 31, 2009
          

             
          

             
          

            99,956,833
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            459,542
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            405,198
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (129
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            252
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            865,863
          

             
          



            Adoption of ASC 810 (FASB Statement No. 167), net of
            tax
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,274
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,274
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,984
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,992
          

             
          



            Issuance of common stock awards to employees
          

             
          

             
          

            9,865
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Exercise of common stock options
          

             
          

             
          

            752,595
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,604
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,611
          

             
          



            Equity-based compensation
          

             
          

             
          

            7,654
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,354
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,354
          

             
          



            Other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,263
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (14
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,277
          

            )
          



            Balance at December 31, 2010
          

             
          

             
          

            100,726,947
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,007
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            467,500
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            445,456
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,392
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            246
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            904,817
          

             
          



            Net income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,331
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            78,323
          

             
          



            Issuance of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            28,750,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            288
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            354,157
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            354,445
          

             
          



            Exercise of common stock options
          

             
          

             
          

            410,977
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,269
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,273
          

             
          



            Equity-based compensation
          

             
          

             
          

            11,364
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,195
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,195
          

             
          



            Distribution to non-controlling interest holder
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (247
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (247
          

            )
          



            Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,496
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,505
          

             
          



            Balance at December 31, 2011
          

             
          

             
          

            129,899,288
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,299
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            826,121
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            523,787
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (7,896
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,343,311
          

             
          



       
    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      consolidated financial statements


       
    




              F-7
              








               
            




 


OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
      AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


 (Dollars in thousands


       
    



             
          

             
          


For the Years Ended December 31,



 




 


 



2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Cash flows from operating activities
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,323
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,992
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            272
          

             
          



            Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
            provided by operating activities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Amortization of mortgage servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            42,996
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,455
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,228
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt discount
          

             
          

             
          

            8,853
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,389
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,172
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt issuance costs – senior
            secured term loan
          

             
          

             
          

            9,764
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,086
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets
          

             
          

             
          

            4,160
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,512
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,366
          

             
          



            Write-off of investment in commercial real estate
            property
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Reversal of valuation allowance on mortgage servicing
            assets
          

             
          

             
          

            (574
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (90
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (670
          

            )
          



            Reversal of valuation allowance on discontinued
            operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,227
          

            )
          



            Gain on disposition of subsidiaries
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,749
          

            )
          



            Loss (gain) on trading securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,968
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (11,187
          

            )
          



            Loss on loans held for resale, net
          

             
          

             
          

            4,529
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,865
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,132
          

             
          



            Equity in (earnings) losses of unconsolidated entities
          

             
          

             
          

            746
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,371
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            2,933
          

             
          



            Unrealized losses (gains) on derivative financial
            instruments
          

             
          

             
          

            7,426
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            133
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (588
          

            )
          



            Gain on extinguishment of debt
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,651
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (152
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,015
          

            )
          



            Decrease (increase) in deferred tax assets, net
          

             
          

             
          

            29,898
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,764
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            40,758
          

             
          



            Net cash provided by trading activities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            239,555
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,700
          

             
          



            Net cash provided by loans held for resale activities
          

             
          

             
          

            1,468
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,771
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,576
          

             
          



            Changes in assets and liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Decrease in advances and match funded advances
          

             
          

             
          

            842,545
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            447,219
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            227,271
          

             
          



            Increase in receivables and other assets, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (36,452
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (48,468
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (32,846
          

            )
          



            Decrease in servicer liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,196
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (36,180
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (97,079
          

            )
          



            Increase (decrease) in other liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            (15,470
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            24,637
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            19,387
          

             
          



            Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            8,780
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,987
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,212
          

             
          



            Net cash provided by operating activities
          

             
          

             
          

            982,145
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            727,544
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            206,646
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Cash flows from investing activities
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Cash paid to acquire Litton Loan Servicing LP
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,646,700
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Cash paid to acquire HomEq Servicing (a business within
            Barclays Bank PLC)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,167,122
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Proceeds from the sale of subsidiaries, net of cash
            sold
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,584
          

             
          



            Investment in unconsolidated entities
          

             
          

             
          

            (15,340
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (62
          

            )
          



            Distributions of capital from unconsolidated entities
          

             
          

             
          

            2,415
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,542
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,658
          

             
          



            Purchase of mortgage servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (23,425
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (10,241
          

            )
          



            Acquisition of advances and other assets in connection
            with the purchase of mortgage servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (528,882
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Additions to premises and equipment
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,822
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,821
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,700
          

            )
          



            Decrease in restricted cash – for securitization
            investors
          

             
          

             
          

            52
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,028
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Principal payments received on loans – restricted
            for securitization investors
          

             
          

             
          

            5,250
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,616
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Proceeds from sales of real estate
          

             
          

             
          

            1,678
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,434
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,600
          

             
          



            Proceeds from sale of investments in affordable housing
            projects
          

             
          

             
          

            929
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,036
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            420
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            888
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net cash used by investing activities
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,655,118
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,703,706
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,161
          

            )
          



       
    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      consolidated financial statements


       
    




              F-8
              








               
            




       
    

OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS –
      (Continued)


(Dollars in thousands)


       
    



             
          

             
          


For the Years Ended December 31,



 




 


 



2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Cash flows from financing activities
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Proceeds from (repayment of) match funded liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            1,076,422
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,016,838
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (491,416
          

            )
          



            Repayment of secured borrowings – owed to
            securitization investors
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,382
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,346
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Proceeds from lines of credit and other secured
            borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            563,500
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            448,316
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            102,106
          

             
          



            Repayments of lines of credit and other secured
            borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            (281,768
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (263,442
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (151,976
          

            )
          



            Payment of debt issuance costs – senior secured
            term loan
          

             
          

             
          

            (13,147
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (10,689
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Repayment of investment line
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (156,968
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (43,751
          

            )
          



            Repurchase of debt securities, net
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (11,659
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (37,289
          

            )
          



            Issuance of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            354,445
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            335,129
          

             
          



            Repurchase of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (11,000
          

            )
          



            Exercise of common stock options
          

             
          

             
          

            1,483
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,146
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,358
          

             
          



            Distribution of cash in connection with the spin-off of
            Altisource Portfolio Solutions
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (20,028
          

            )
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,142
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,157
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,276
          

             
          



            Net cash provided (used) by financing activities
          

             
          

             
          

            1,689,411
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,013,039
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (313,591
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net increase (decrease) in cash
          

             
          

             
          

            16,438
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            36,877
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (110,106
          

            )
          



            Cash at beginning of year
          

             
          

             
          

            127,796
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            90,919
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            201,025
          

             
          



            Cash at end of year
          

             
          

            $
          

            144,234
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            127,796
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            90,919
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Supplemental cash flow information
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest paid
          

             
          

            $
          

            128,947
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            88,354
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            56,692
          

             
          



            Income tax payments, net
          

             
          

             
          

            29,461
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,756
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            52,910
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Supplemental non-cash investing and financing
            activities
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net assets distributed in connection with the spin-off
            of Altisource Portfolio Solutions, excluding cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            52,118
          

             
          



            Real estate acquired through foreclosure
          

             
          

             
          

            3,539
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,569
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,473
          

             
          



            Common stock received from employees in connection with
            the exercise of stock options as settlement of the
            exercise price and income tax withholding on
            compensation
          

             
          

             
          

            3,657
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Supplemental business acquisition information
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Fair value of assets acquired
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            (23,791
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,468,137
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,063,180
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights
          

             
          

             
          

            (144,314
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (84,324
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Premises and equipment
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,386
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,728
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Goodwill
          

             
          

             
          

            (65,622
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (12,810
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Receivables
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,957
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Other assets
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,829
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,711,079
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,174,999
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Fair value of liabilities assumed
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            8,972
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            709
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Checks held for escheat
          

             
          

             
          

            6,145
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,616
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Accrued expenses and other
          

             
          

             
          

            25,471
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,001
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Total consideration
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,670,491
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,165,673
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Amount due from seller for purchase price adjustments
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,449
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Cash paid
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,670,491
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,167,122
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Less cash acquired
          

             
          

             
          

            23,791
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net cash paid
          

             
          

            $
          

            (2,646,700
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (1,167,122
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



       
    

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
      consolidated financial statements


       
    




              F-9
              








               
            




       
    

OCWEN FINANCIAL CORPORATION
      AND SUBSIDIARIES


 


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


 


DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009


 


(Dollars in thousands, except per share data and unless
      otherwise indicated)


       
    

NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


       
    

Organization


       
    



      Ocwen Financial Corporation (Ocwen or OCN), through its
      subsidiaries, is a leading provider of residential and
      commercial mortgage loan servicing, special servicing and
      asset management services. Ocwen is headquartered in Atlanta,
      Georgia with offices in West Palm Beach and Orlando, Florida,
      Houston, Texas, McDonough, Georgia, and Washington, DC and
      support operations in India and Uruguay. Ocwen is a Florida
      corporation organized in February 1988. Ocwen Loan Servicing,
      LLC (OLS), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Ocwen, is licensed to
      service mortgage loans in all 50 states, the District of
      Columbia and two U.S. territories.
    

       
    

      At December 31, 2011, Ocwen owned all of the outstanding
      stock of its primary operating subsidiaries: OLS and Ocwen
      Financial Solutions. Ocwen also holds a 49% equity interest
      in Correspondent One S.A. (Correspondent One), an entity
      formed with Altisource Portfolio Solutions S.A. (Altisource)
      in March 2011, a 27% interest in Ocwen Structured
      Investments, LLC (OSI) and an approximate 25% interest in
      Ocwen Nonperforming Loans, LLC (ONL) and Ocwen REO, LLC
      (OREO).
    

       
    

      On September 1, 2011, Ocwen completed its acquisition (the
      Litton Acquisition) of (i) all the outstanding partnership
      interests of Litton Loan Servicing LP (Litton), a subsidiary
      of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Goldman Sachs) and a
      provider of servicing and subservicing of primarily non-prime
      residential mortgage loans and (ii) certain interest-only
      servicing securities (the Litton IO Strips) previously owned
      by Goldman Sachs & Co., also a subsidiary of Goldman
      Sachs (collectively referred to as Litton Loan Servicing
      Business). See Note 2 for additional information
      regarding the Litton Acquisition.
    

       
    

      On September 1, 2010, Ocwen, through OLS, completed its
      acquisition (the HomEq Acquisition) of the U.S. non-prime
      mortgage servicing business known as “HomEq
      Servicing” including, but not limited to, the mortgage
      servicing rights and associated servicer advances of the
      business as well as the servicing platforms based in
      Sacramento, California and Raleigh, North Carolina. See
      Note 2 for additional information regarding the HomEq
      Acquisition.
    

       
    

      On August 10, 2009, Ocwen completed the distribution of its
      Ocwen Solutions line of business, except for BMS Holdings and
      GSS, via the spin-off of a separate publicly-traded
      company, Altisource. Altisource common stock is listed on the
      NASDAQ market under the ticker symbol “ASPS.” All
      of the shares of Altisource common stock were distributed to
      OCN’s shareholders of record as of August 4, 2009 (the
      Separation). The assets and liabilities of Altisource were
      eliminated from Ocwen’s Consolidated Balance Sheet
      effective at the close of business on August 9, 2009.
      Beginning August 10, 2009, the operating results of
      Altisource are no longer included in Ocwen’s operating
      results. The historical operating results of Altisource are
      not reported by Ocwen as a discontinued operation because of
      the significance of the continuing involvement between
      Altisource and Ocwen under the long-term services agreements
      described in Note 28. Accordingly, for periods prior to
      August 10, 2009, the historical operating results of
      Altisource are presented in continuing operations.
    

       
    

Principles of Consolidation


       
    

      Our financial statements include the accounts of Ocwen and
      its majority-owned subsidiaries. We apply the equity method
      of accounting to investments when the entity is not a
      variable interest entity (VIE), and we are able to exercise
      significant influence, but not control, over the policies and
      procedures of the entity but own 50% or less of the voting
      securities. We account for our investments in OSI, ONL, OREO
      and Correspondent One using the equity method. We have
      eliminated intercompany accounts and transactions in
      consolidation.
    

       
    

Variable Interest Entities


       
    

      We evaluate each special purpose entity (SPE) for
      classification as a VIE. When an SPE meets the definition of
      a VIE and we determine that Ocwen is the primary beneficiary,
      we include the SPE in our consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

      We have determined that the SPEs created in connection with
      the match funded financing facilities discussed below are
      VIEs of which we are the primary beneficiary. We have also
      determined that we are the primary beneficiary for certain
      residential mortgage loan securitization trusts. The accounts
      of these SPEs are included in our consolidated financial
      statements.
    

       
    




              F-10
              








               
            




 


Securitizations or Asset Backed Financing Arrangements


       
    

      Ocwen or its subsidiaries have been a transferor in
      connection with a number of securitizations or asset-backed
      financing arrangements. We have continuing involvement with
      the financial assets of eight of the securitizations and
      three of the asset-backed financing arrangements. We also
      hold residual interests in and are the servicer for three
      securitizations where we were not a transferor.
    

       
    

      We have aggregated these securitizations and asset-backed
      financing arrangements into two groups: (1) securitizations
      of residential mortgage loans and (2) financings of advances
      on loans serviced for others.
    

       
    

Securitizations of Residential Mortgage Loans. In
      prior years, we securitized residential mortgage loans using
      certain trusts. These transactions were accounted for as
      sales even though we continued to be involved with the
      trusts, typically by acting as the servicer or sub-servicer
      for the loans held by the trust and by retaining a beneficial
      ownership interest in the trust. The beneficial interests we
      held consisted of both subordinate and residual securities
      that were either retained at the time of the securitization
      or subsequently acquired.
    

       
    

      As a result of our adoption of Accounting Standards Update
      (ASU) No. 2009-16 (Accounting Standards Codification (ASC)
      860, Transfers and Servicing) and ASU 2009-17 (ASC 810,
      Consolidation), we have included four of these trusts in our
      consolidated financial statements. For each of these four
      trusts, we have determined that our involvement represents a
      variable interest and that we are the primary beneficiary.
      Our involvement with each of the remaining trusts does not
      represent a variable interest, and therefore, we exclude them
      from our consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

      We have determined that Ocwen is the primary beneficiary of
      the four consolidated securitization trusts because:
    

       
    



             
          

            1.
          

            as the servicer we have the right to direct the
            activities that most significantly impact the economic
            performance of the trusts through our ability to manage
            the delinquent assets of the trusts and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            2.
          

            as holder of all or a portion of the residual tranches
            of the securities issued by the trust, we have the
            obligation to absorb losses of the trusts, to the
            extent of the value of our investment, and the right to
            receive benefits from the trust both of which could
            potentially be significant to the trusts.
          



       
    

      For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, the four
      consolidated trusts generated income from continuing
      operations before income taxes of $419 and $1,388,
      respectively. The consolidation of the four trusts on January
      1, 2010 did not affect Cash and, therefore, the transition
      adjustments are not reported in the Consolidated Statement of
      Cash Flows. See Note 7 and Note 14 for additional
      information regarding Loans – restricted for
      securitization investors and Secured borrowings – owed
      to securitization investors.
    

       
    

      Our Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2009 has not
      been retroactively adjusted to reflect the effect of our
      adoption of ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17. Therefore, 2010 and
      2011 results are not comparable to 2009 particularly with
      regard to the following financial statement line items:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Interest income
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Interest expense
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Gain (loss) on trading securities
          



       
    

      Beginning January 1, 2010, interest income on the securities
      that we hold that were issued by the securitization trusts is
      eliminated in consolidation against the interest expense of
      the trusts.
    

       
    

      The following table presents a summary of the involvement of
      Ocwen with unconsolidated securitization trusts and summary
      financial information for the trusts where we are the
      transferor and hold beneficial interests. Although we are the
      servicer for these trusts, the residual interests that we
      hold in these entities have no value and no potential return
      of significant cash flows. As a result, we are not exposed to
      loss from these holdings. Further, since our valuation of the
      residual interest is based on anticipated cash flows, we are
      unlikely to receive any future benefits from our residual
      interests in these trusts.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011 (1)



 


 



2010 (1)



 


 



2009



             
          



            Total cash received on beneficial interests held
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,600
          

             
          



            Total servicing and subservicing fee revenues
          

             
          

             
          

            3,095
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,509
          

             
          



       
    




              F-11
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          


As of December 31,



 




 


 



2011 (1)



 


 



2010 (1)



             
          



            Total servicing advances
          

             
          

            $
          

            12,627
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            16,886
          

             
          



            Total mortgage servicing rights at amortized cost
          

             
          

             
          

            1,157
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,330
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Excludes the four consolidated trusts.
          



       
    

      With regard to both the consolidated and the unconsolidated
      securitization trusts, we have no obligation to provide
      financial support to the trusts and have provided no such
      support. The creditors of the trusts can look only to the
      assets of the trusts themselves for satisfaction of the debt
      and have no recourse against the assets of Ocwen. Similarly,
      the general creditors of Ocwen have no claim on the assets of
      the trusts. Our exposure to loss as a result of our
      continuing involvement is limited to the carrying values of
      our investments in the residual and subordinate securities of
      the trusts, our mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) that are
      related to the trusts and our advances to the trusts. We
      consider the probability of loss arising from our advances to
      be remote because of their position ahead of most of the
      other liabilities of the trusts. At December 31, 2011 and
      2010, our investment in the securities of the trusts was
      $2,513 and $2,691, respectively, all of which is eliminated
      in consolidation. See Note 5 and Note 8 for
      additional information regarding Advances and Mortgage
      servicing rights.
    

       
    

Financings of Advances on Loans Serviced for Others.
      Match funded advances on loans serviced for others result
      from our transfers of residential loan servicing advances to
      SPEs in exchange for cash. These SPEs issue debt supported by
      collections on the transferred advances. We made these
      transfers under the terms of four advance facility
      agreements. We classify the transferred advances on our
      Consolidated Balance Sheet as Match funded advances and the
      related liabilities as Match funded liabilities. Collections
      on the advances pledged to the SPEs are used to repay
      principal and interest and to pay the expenses of the entity.
      Holders of the debt issued by these entities can look only to
      the assets of the entities themselves for satisfaction of the
      debt and have no recourse against Ocwen. However, OLS has
      guaranteed the payment of the obligations under the
      securitization documents of one of the entities, Ocwen
      Servicer Advance Funding (Wachovia), LLC (OSAFW). The maximum
      amount payable under the guarantee is limited to 10% of the
      notes outstanding at the end of the facility’s
      revolving period on July 1, 2013. As of December 31, 2011,
      OSAFW had $130,492 of notes outstanding.
    

       
    

      The following table summarizes the assets and liabilities of
      the SPEs formed in connection with our match funded advance
      facilities, at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Match funded advances
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,629,911
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,924,052
          

             
          



            Other assets
          

             
          

             
          

            139,352
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            103,448
          

             
          



            Total assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,769,263
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,027,500
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,558,951
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,482,529
          

             
          



            Due to affiliates (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            1,131,661
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            262,900
          

             
          



            Other liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            1,985
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,890
          

             
          



            Total liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,692,597
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,748,319
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Amounts are payable to Ocwen and its consolidated
            affiliates and eliminated in consolidation.
          



       
    

      See Note 6 and Note 13 for additional information
      regarding Match funded advances and Match funded liabilities.
    

       
    

Reclassification


       
    

      Within the liabilities section of the Consolidated Balance
      Sheet at December 31, 2010, we reclassified Servicer
      liabilities balance of $2,492 to Other liabilities.
    

       
    

      Within the operating activities section of the Consolidated
      Statements of Cash Flows for 2010 and 2009, we made the
      following reclassifications to conform to the 2011
      presentation:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Reclassified Amortization of debt issuance costs
            – senior secured term loan from Increase in
            receivables and other assets, net; and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Reclassified Gain on extinguishment of debt and
            Unrealized losses on derivative financial instruments
            from Other, net.
          



       
    




              F-12
              








               
            




       
    

Cash


       
    

      Cash includes both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing
      demand deposits with financial institutions with original
      maturities of 90 days or less.
    

       
    

Trading Securities


       
    

      Trading securities includes other investments with original
      maturities of three months or less that we do not treat as
      cash equivalents.
    

       
    

      We account for investments in auction rate, investment grade,
      residual and subordinate securities as trading securities at
      fair value. We report changes in fair value in gain (loss) on
      trading securities in the period of the change. We determine
      fair value based either on third party dealer quotations,
      where available, or on internal values determined using
      market based assumptions.
    

       
    

      We recognize interest income on subordinate and residual
      securities through an “effective yield” method
      with changes in expected future cash flows reflected in the
      yield on a prospective basis. We adjust the prospective yield
      each time the estimates of expected future cash flows change
      or the actual cash flows differ from projections. We use the
      newly calculated yield in the accrual of interest income for
      subsequent reporting periods.
    

       
    

Loans Held for Resale


       
    

      We classify loans that we do not intend to hold to maturity
      as loans held for resale, and we report them at the lower of
      cost or fair value computed on an aggregate basis. We account
      for the excess of cost over fair value as a valuation
      allowance and include changes in the valuation allowance in
      gain (loss) on loans held for resale, net, in the period in
      which the change occurs. We have deferred loan origination
      fees and direct loan origination costs until the loans are
      sold. These fees and costs are included in the carrying value
      of the loans when determining a valuation allowance.
    

       
    

      We accrue interest income as earned. We place loans on
      non-accrual status after any portion of principal or interest
      has been delinquent greater than 89 days or earlier if
      management determines the borrower is unable to continue
      performance. When we place a loan on non-accrual status, we
      reverse interest accrued but not received. We return loans to
      accrual status only when we reinstate the loan and have no
      significant uncertainty as to collectibility.
    

       
    

Mortgage Servicing Rights


       
    

      MSRs are an intangible asset representing the right to
      service a portfolio of mortgage loans. We generally obtain
      MSRs by purchasing them from the owners of the mortgage
      loans.
    

       
    

      An agreement between the various parties to a mortgage
      securitization transaction typically specifies the rights and
      obligations of the holder of the MSRs which include
      guidelines and procedures for servicing the loans. Two
      examples of these guidelines and procedures include
      remittance and reporting requirements. Assets serviced for
      others are not included on our balance sheet.
    

       
    

      Custodial accounts, which hold funds representing collections
      of principal and interest we receive from borrowers, are
      escrowed with an unaffiliated bank and excluded from our
      balance sheet. Custodial accounts amounted to approximately
      $555,500 and $320,300 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
      respectively.
    

       
    

      We account for our residential and commercial classes of
      servicing assets using the amortization method. All newly
      acquired MSRs are initially measured at fair value. We
      amortize the balance of servicing assets or liabilities in
      proportion to and over the period of estimated net servicing
      income or net servicing loss and assess servicing assets or
      liabilities for impairment or increased obligation based on
      fair value at each reporting date. We determine estimated net
      servicing income using the estimated future balance of the
      underlying mortgage loan portfolio, which, absent new
      purchases, declines over time from prepayments and scheduled
      loan amortization. We adjust amortization prospectively in
      response to changes in estimated projections of future cash
      flows. We perform an impairment analysis based on the
      difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair
      value after grouping our loans into the applicable strata
      based on one or more of the predominant risk characteristics
      of the underlying loans (see Note 3—Fair
      Value—Mortgage Servicing Rights).
    

       
    

Mortgage Servicing Fees and Advances


       
    

      We earn fees for servicing mortgage loans. We collect
      servicing fees, generally expressed as a percent of unpaid
      principal balance from the borrowers’ payments. We also
      include late fees, prepayment penalties, float earnings and
      other ancillary fees in servicing income. We recognize
      servicing fees as revenue when the fees are earned which is
      generally when the borrowers’ payments are collected or
      when loans are modified or liquidated through the sale of the
      underlying real estate collateral or otherwise.
    

       
    




              F-13
              








               
            




       
    

      During any period in which the borrower does not make
      payments, most of our servicing agreements require that we
      advance our own funds to meet contractual principal and
      interest remittance requirements for the investors, pay
      property taxes and insurance premiums and process
      foreclosures. We also advance funds to maintain, repair and
      market foreclosed real estate properties on behalf of
      investors. These advances are made pursuant to the terms of
      each servicing contract. Each servicing contract is
      associated with specific loans, identified as a pool.
    

       
    

      When we make an advance on a loan under each servicing
      contract, we are entitled to recover that advance either from
      the borrower, for reinstated and performing loans, or from
      investors, for foreclosed loans. Most of our servicing
      contracts provide that the advances made under the respective
      agreement have priority over all other cash payments from the
      proceeds of the loan, and in the majority of cases, the
      proceeds of the pool of loans, which are the subject of that
      servicing contract. As a result, we are entitled to repayment
      from loan proceeds before any interest or principal is paid
      on the bonds, and in the majority of cases, advances in
      excess of loan proceeds may be recovered from pool level
      proceeds.
    

       
    

      We record a charge to earnings to the extent that we believe
      advances are uncollectible under the provisions of each
      servicing contract taking into consideration historical loss
      and delinquency experience, length of delinquency and the
      amount of the advance. However, we are generally only
      obligated to advance funds to the extent that we believe the
      advances are recoverable from expected proceeds from the
      loan. We assess collectibility using proprietary cash flow
      projection models which incorporate a number of different
      factors, depending on the characteristics of the mortgage
      loan or pool, including, for example, time to a foreclosure
      sale, estimated costs of foreclosure action, future property
      tax payments and the value of the underlying property net of
      carrying costs, commissions and closing costs.
    

       
    

Goodwill


       
    

      Goodwill represents the cost of acquired businesses in excess
      of the fair value of the net assets acquired. In 2009 the
      entire balance of goodwill, which related to our former Ocwen
      Solutions line of business, was distributed to Altisource as
      part of the Separation. At December 31, 2011, the $78,432
      balance of goodwill is comprised of $12,810 recorded in
      connection with the HomEq Acquisition on September 1, 2010
      and $65,622 recorded in connection with the Litton
      Acquisition on September 1, 2011, both of which are included
      in the Servicing segment
    

       
    

      We test goodwill for impairment annually or sooner if an
      event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely
      than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
      net carrying value. Effective with our adoption of ASU
      2011-08 (ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other):
      Testing Goodwill for Impairment in the fourth quarter of
      2011, we have the option of performing a qualitative
      assessment of impairment to determine whether any further
      quantitative testing for impairment is necessary. If we elect
      to bypass the qualitative assessment or if we determine, on
      the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the
      reporting unit is more likely than not (defined as having a
      likelihood of more than 50 percent) less than the carrying
      value, a two-step quantitative test is required. Otherwise,
      no further testing is required. Factors that we consider in
      the qualitative assessment include general economic
      conditions, conditions of the industry and market in which we
      operate, regulatory developments, cost factors and our
      overall financial performance.
    

       
    

      In the first step of the two-step quantitative assessment, we
      compare the fair value of the reporting unit with its net
      carrying value, including goodwill. If the net carrying value
      of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we then perform
      the second step of the impairment test to measure the amount
      of impairment loss, if any. The second step requires
      allocation of the reporting unit’s fair value to all of
      its assets and liabilities in a manner similar to a purchase
      price allocation, with any residual fair value being
      allocated to goodwill (implied fair value of goodwill). If
      the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill
      exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, we recognize
      an impairment loss in an amount equal to that excess up to
      the carrying value of goodwill.
    

       
    

      In performing the quantitative two-step impairment analysis
      for goodwill, we use an approach based on the fair value of
      the assets and liabilities. We perform this analysis using
      projections of future income discounted at a market rate. The
      determination of market discount rates is subjective and
      could vary based on the nature of the underlying business,
      stage of development and revenue to date. The projections of
      future cash flows and assumptions concerning future operating
      performance and economic conditions may differ from actual
      results.
    

       
    

We perform our annual impairment
      test of goodwill as of August 31st of each year. Based on our 2011 annual
      assessment, we determined that goodwill was not impaired.
      Beginning in 2012, our annual impairment test will include
      the goodwill related to the Litton Acquisition.


       
    




              F-14
              








               
            




       
    

Premises and Equipment


       
    

      We report premises and equipment at cost and, except for
      land, depreciate them over their estimated useful lives on
      the straight-line method as follows:
    

       
    



            Buildings
          

             39 years
          

             
          

            Office equipment
          

            5 years
          



            Land improvements
          

             39 years
          

             
          

            Computer hardware and software
          

            2 – 3 years
          



            Furniture and fixtures  
          

             5 years
          

             
          

            Leasehold improvements
          

            Term of the lease not to exceed useful life
          



       
    

Investment in Unconsolidated Entities


      We account for our investments in unconsolidated entities
      using the equity method. These investments include both
      entities in which we hold a significant, but less than
      controlling, ownership interest and VIEs in which we are not
      deemed to be the primary beneficiary. Under the equity method
      of accounting, investments are initially recorded at cost and
      thereafter adjusted for additional investments, distributions
      and the proportionate share of earnings or losses of the
      investee. We evaluate our equity method investments for
      impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate
      that any other-than-temporary decline in value may have
      occurred. We stop recording our share of investee losses if
      our share of losses reduces our investment to zero unless we
      have guaranteed the obligations of or are otherwise committed
      to provide further financial support to the investee. If the
      investee subsequently reports net income, we will only
      continue to record our share of the net income after our
      share of net income equals the share of net losses not
      recognized during the periods that the recording of losses
      was suspended.
    

       
    

Litigation


       
    

      We monitor our legal matters, including advice from external
      legal counsel, and periodically perform assessments of these
      matters for potential loss accrual and disclosure. We
      establish reserves for settlements, judgments on appeal and
      filed and/or threatened claims for which we believe it is
      probable that a loss has been or will be incurred and the
      amount can be reasonably estimated. We recognize our legal
      costs associated with loss contingencies as they are
      incurred.
    

       
    

Derivative Financial Instruments


       
    

      We recognize all derivatives on our consolidated balance
      sheet at fair value. On the date we enter into a derivative
      contract, we designate and document each derivative contract
      as one of the following at the time the contract is executed:
      (a) a hedge of a recognized asset or liability (fair value
      hedge); (b) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the
      variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
      recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge); (c) a hedge
      of a net investment in a foreign operation; or (d) a
      derivative instrument not designated as a hedging instrument.
      To qualify for hedge accounting, a derivative must be highly
      effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure
      being hedged. In addition, the documentation must include the
      risk management objective and strategy. We assess and
      document quarterly the extent to which a derivative has been
      and is expected to continue to be effective in offsetting the
      changes in the fair value or the cash flows of the hedged
      item. To assess effectiveness, we use statistical methods,
      such as regression analysis, as well as nonstatistical
      methods including dollar-offset analysis. For a fair value
      hedge, we record changes in the fair value of the derivative
      and, to the extent that it is effective, changes in the fair
      value of the hedged asset or liability attributable to the
      hedged risk, in the same financial statement category as the
      hedged item on the face of the statement of operations. For a
      cash flow hedge, to the extent that it is effective, we
      record changes in the estimated fair value of the derivative
      in other comprehensive income. We subsequently reclassify
      these changes in estimated fair value to net income in the
      same period, or periods, that the hedged transaction affects
      earnings and in the same financial statement category as the
      hedged item. For a derivative instrument not designated as a
      hedging instrument, we report changes in the fair values in
      current period Other income (expense), net.
    

       
    

      If a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is terminated
      or the hedge designation is removed, we reclassify related
      amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income into
      earnings in the same period or periods during which the cash
      flows that were hedged affect earnings. In a period where we
      determine that it is probable that a hedged forecasted
      transaction will not occur, such as variable-rate interest
      payments on debt that has been repaid in advance, any related
      amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income are
      reclassified into earnings in that period.
    

       
    




              F-15
              








               
            




       
    

Match Funded Liabilities, Lines of Credit, Investment Line
      and Other Secured Borrowings


       
    

      Match funded liabilities, lines of credit and other secured
      borrowings are collateralized by specific assets. Under the
      terms of these borrowing agreements, we are subject to
      various qualitative and quantitative covenants. Collectively,
      these covenants include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            Specified net worth requirements
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Restrictions on future indebtedness
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            Monitoring and reporting of various specified
            transactions or events, including specific reporting on
            defined events affecting collateral underlying certain
            borrowing agreements
          



       
    

      We believe that we are currently in compliance with these
      covenants.
    

       
    

      Aggregate long-term borrowings by maturity date are set forth
      below:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Expected Maturity Date at December 31, 2011



 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 



2012



 


 



2013



 


 



2014



 


 



2015



 


 



2016



 


 



There-
              after



 


 



Total


Balance



 


 



Fair


Value



             
          



            Match funded liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Fixed rate
          

             
          

            $
          

            190,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,844,043
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,034,043
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,044,223
          

             
          



            Variable interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

            11,687
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            513,221
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            524,908
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            524,908
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            59,296
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            54,994
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            55,303
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            55,611
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            315,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            540,369
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            550,860
          

             
          



            Debt securities (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            56,435
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            92,125
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            317,418
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,412,258
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            55,303
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            55,611
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            315,165
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,181,874
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,212,116
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The 3.25% Contingent Convertible Senior Unsecured Notes
            (Convertible Notes) mature on August 1, 2024. However,
            the table above reflects an expected maturity date of
            March 28, 2012 because we provided notice of redemption
            to the holders on February 27, 2012 stating our
            election to redeem all of the outstanding Convertible
            notes on March 28, 2012. See Note 18 and Note 32
            for additional information.
          



       
    

      The interest rate for 1-Month LIBOR was 0.30% and 0.26%,
      respectively, at December 31, 2011 and 2010. See
      Note 13, Note 15 and Note 16 for additional
      information regarding the terms of our borrowings.
    

       
    

Foreign Currency Translation


       
    

      Where the functional currency is not the U.S. dollar, we
      translate assets and liabilities of foreign entities into
      U.S. dollars at the current rate of exchange existing at the
      balance sheet date, while revenues and expenses are
      translated at average monthly exchange rates. We report the
      resulting translation adjustments as a component of
      accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’
      equity. Where the functional currency of a foreign entity is
      the U.S. dollar, re-measurement adjustments of
      foreign-denominated amounts are included in the results of
      operations.
    

       
    

Income Taxes


       
    

      We file consolidated federal income tax returns. We allocate
      consolidated income tax among all subsidiaries included in
      the consolidated return as if each subsidiary filed a
      separate return or, in certain cases, a consolidated return.
    

       
    

      We account for income taxes using the asset and liability
      method which requires the recognition of deferred tax
      liabilities and assets for the expected future tax
      consequences of temporary differences between the carrying
      amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities.
      Additionally, we adjust deferred taxes to reflect estimated
      tax rate changes. We conduct periodic evaluations to
      determine whether it is more likely than not that some or all
      of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Among the
      factors considered in this evaluation are estimates of future
      earnings, the future reversal of temporary differences and
      the impact of tax planning strategies that we can implement
      if warranted. We provide a valuation allowance for any
      portion of our deferred tax assets that, more likely than
      not, will not be realized. We recognize the financial
      statement benefit of a tax position only after determining
      that the relevant tax authority would more likely than not
      sustain the position following an audit. For tax positions
      meeting the more-likely-than-not threshold, the amount
      recognized in the financial statements is the largest benefit
      that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being
      realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax
      authority. We recognize interest and penalties related to
      income tax matters in income tax expense.
    

       
    




              F-16
              








               
            




       
    

Basic and Diluted Earnings per Share


       
    

      We calculate basic earnings per share based upon the weighted
      average number of shares of common stock outstanding during
      the year. We calculate diluted earnings per share based upon
      the weighted average number of shares of common stock
      outstanding and all dilutive potential common shares
      outstanding during the year. The computation of diluted
      earnings per share includes the estimated impact of the
      exercise of the outstanding options to purchase common stock
      using the treasury stock method. The computation of diluted
      earnings per share also includes the potential shares of
      converted common stock associated with our Convertible Notes
      using the if-converted method.
    

       
    

Use of Estimates


       
    

      The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
      generally accepted accounting principles requires that we
      make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
      amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
      contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
      financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
      expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could
      materially differ from those estimates. Material estimates
      that are particularly significant in the near or medium term
      relate to fair value measurements, the provision for
      potential losses that may arise from litigation proceedings,
      the amortization of MSRs and the valuation of goodwill and
      deferred tax assets.
    

       
    

Stock-Based Compensation


       
    

      We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange
      for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date
      fair value of the award. For stock option awards with a
      service condition, we recognize the cost of the awards as
      compensation expense ratably over the vesting period. For
      stock options awarded with a market condition, we recognize
      the cost as compensation expense ratably over the expected
      life of the option that is derived from the lattice
      (binomial) options pricing model. When options with a market
      condition meet their vesting requirements, any unrecognized
      compensation at the vesting date is recognized ratably over
      the vesting period.
    

       
    

Recent Accounting Pronouncements


       
    

ASU No. 2010-06 (ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and
      Disclosures): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
      Measurements. ASU 2010-06 revised the disclosure
      requirements concerning fair value measurements. Effective
      for our financial statements for the interim period beginning
      January 1, 2011, the presentation of purchases, sales,
      issuances and settlements within Level 3 are required to be
      presented on a gross rather than net basis. See Note 3
      for our fair value disclosures related to financial
      instruments.
    

       
    

ASU No. 2010-20 (ASC 310, Receivables): Disclosures
      about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the
      Allowance for Credit Losses. ASU 2010-20 requires
      disclosure of disaggregated information for both the
      financing receivables and the related allowance for credit
      losses. The disclosure requirements specifically do not apply
      to trade receivables with contractual maturities of one year
      or less that arose from the sale of goods or services, except
      for credit card receivables. The disclosure requirements also
      do not apply to mortgage banking activities, including the
      long-term servicing of loans, and certain disclosures are not
      required for receivables measured at the lower of cost or
      market. The disclosures about activity that occurred during a
      reporting period, such as the allowance rollforward and
      modification disclosures became effective for our financial
      statements for the interim period beginning January 1, 2011.
      See Note 9 for our disclosures related to receivables.
    

       
    

ASU 2010-28 (ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and
      Other): When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment
      Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying
      Amounts. The amendments in this update affect all
      entities that have recognized goodwill and have one or more
      reporting units whose carrying amount for purposes of
      performing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test is zero or
      negative. For those reporting units, Step 2 of the goodwill
      impairment test is required if it is more likely than not
      that a goodwill impairment exists. This update became
      effective for our financial statements for the interim period
      beginning January 1, 2011. Our adoption of this standard did
      not have a material effect on our financial position or
      results of operations. Our recognized goodwill relates to our
      acquisitions of HomEq Servicing in 2010 and Litton in 2011
      and is included in the Servicing segment, which does not have
      a negative or zero carrying value.
    

       
    

Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011-02 (ASC 310,
      Receivables): A Creditor’s Determination of Whether a
      Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. The
      amendments in this ASU clarify the guidance on a
      creditor’s evaluation of whether it has granted a
      concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial
      difficulties. If the restructuring is considered a troubled
      debt restructuring, creditors are required to make certain
      disclosures in their financial statements. In addition, the
      calculation of the allowance for credit losses for that
      receivable follows the impairment guidance specific to
      impaired receivables. Our adoption of this standard on July
      1, 2011 did not have a material impact on our consolidated
      financial statements.
    

       
    




              F-17
              








               
            




       
    

ASU 2011-03 (ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing):
      Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase
      Agreements. ASC 860 prescribes when an entity may or may
      not recognize a sale upon the transfer of financial assets
      subject to repurchase agreements. That determination is
      based, in part, on whether the entity has maintained
      effective control over the transferred financial assets.
      Repurchase agreements are accounted for as secured financings
      if the transferee has not surrendered control over the
      transferred assets. The amendments in this ASU remove from
      the assessment of effective control the criterion relating to
      the transferor’s ability to repurchase or redeem
      financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even in
      the event of default by the transferee. The Financial
      Accounting Standards Board (FASB) concluded that this
      criterion is not a determining factor of effective control.
      Consequently, the amendments in this update also eliminate
      the requirement to demonstrate that the transferor possesses
      adequate collateral to fund substantially all the cost of
      purchasing replacement financial assets. The guidance should
      be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of
      existing transactions that occur on or after the effective
      date. Our adoption of the provisions in this ASU effective
      for the interim period beginning January 1, 2012 is not
      expected to have a material impact on our consolidated
      financial statements.
    

       
    

ASU 2011-04 (ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement): Amendments
      to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure
      Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs. The amendments in
      this ASU explain how to measure fair value. They do not
      require additional fair value measurements and are not
      intended to establish valuation standards or affect valuation
      practices outside of financial reporting. The amendments
      clarify the FASB’s intent about the application of
      existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements
      and prescribe certain additional disclosures about fair value
      measurements, including: for fair value measurements within
      Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, disclosing the valuation
      process used and the sensitivity of fair value measurement to
      changes in unobservable inputs; and for items not carried at
      fair value but for which fair value must be disclosed,
      categorization by level of the fair value hierarchy. Our
      adoption of this standard effective for the interim period
      beginning January 1, 2012 is not expected to have a material
      impact on our consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

ASU 2011-05 (ASC 220, Comprehensive Income): Presentation
      of Comprehensive Income, Current U.S. GAAP allows
      reporting entities three alternatives for presenting other
      comprehensive income and its components in financial
      statements. One of those presentation options is to present
      the components of other comprehensive income as part of the
      statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. This ASU
      eliminates that option. This ASU also requires consecutive
      presentation of the statement of net income and other
      comprehensive income and requires that an entity present
      reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income
      to net income by component on the face of both the statement
      in which net income is presented and the statement in which
      other comprehensive income is presented. ASU 2011-12, which
      was issued on December 23, 2011, defers indefinitely the
      provision regarding the presentation of reclassification
      adjustments. Our adoption of this standard effective for the
      interim period beginning January 1, 2012 is not expected to
      have a material impact on our consolidated financial
      statements.
    

       
    

ASU 2011-08 (ASC 350, Intangibles – Goodwill and
      Other): Testing Goodwill for Impairment. With this ASU,
      the FASB has taken action to reduce the cost and complexity
      of the annual goodwill impairment test by providing reporting
      entities with the option of performing a
      “qualitative” assessment of impairment to
      determine if any further quantitative testing for impairment
      may be necessary. An entity can choose to apply the
      qualitative assessment to all, some or none of its reporting
      units. The ASU is effective for reporting periods beginning
      after December 15, 2011; however, an entity can early adopt
      the revised standard even if its annual impairment test date
      is before September 15, 2011, the date that the ASU was
      issued. Our early adoption of this standard during the fourth
      quarter of 2011 did not have a material impact on our
      consolidated financial statements.
    

       
    

NOTE 2 ACQUISITIONS


       
    

Litton Acquisition


       
    

      As disclosed in Note 1, Ocwen completed its acquisition
      of the Litton Loan Servicing Business on September 1, 2011.
      The transaction was completed in accordance with the
      provisions of the Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) between
      Ocwen and Goldman Sachs dated June 5, 2011.
    

       
    

      Ocwen completed the acquisition in order to expand its
      Servicing segment. The Litton Acquisition resulted in the
      acquisition by Ocwen of a servicing portfolio of
      approximately 245,000 primarily non-prime residential
      mortgage loans with approximately $38.6 billion in unpaid
      principal balance (UPB) and the servicing platform of Litton
      Loan Servicing Business based in Houston, Texas and
      McDonough, Georgia.
    

       
    

      The base purchase price for the Litton Acquisition was
      $247,154, which was paid in cash by Ocwen at closing. In
      addition, Ocwen repaid at closing Litton’s $2,423,123
      outstanding debt on an existing servicing advance financing
      facility that was provided by an affiliate of Goldman Sachs
      and entered into a new advance financing facility under which
      it borrowed $2,126,742 from Goldman Sachs. On September 1,
      2011, Ocwen and certain of its subsidiaries also entered into
      a $575,000 senior secured term loan facility agreement to
      fund the base purchase price and the amount by which the
      repayment of Litton’s advance financing facility debt
      exceeded the proceeds from the new advance financing
      facility. Borrowings under the senior secured term loan
      facility are net of an original issue discount of $11,500,
      which is being amortized over the life of the loan. See
      Note 13 and Note 15 for additional details of the
      new advance financing facility and the senior secured term
      loan.
    

       
    




              F-18
              








               
            




       
    

      The actual base purchase price was increased by $214 as a
      result of post-closing adjustments specified in the Agreement
      for changes in Litton’s estimated closing date net
      worth, servicing portfolio UPB and advance balances, among
      others. We do not anticipate any significant adjustments to
      the purchase price subsequent to December 31, 2011.
    

       
    

      The transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition
      method of accounting which requires, among other things, that
      the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at
      their fair values as of the acquisition date. The following
      table summarizes the preliminary estimate of the fair values
      of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as part of the
      Litton Acquisition:
    

       
    



            Cash
          

             
          

            $
          

            23,791
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            2,468,137
          

             
          



            MSRs
          

             
          

             
          

            144,314
          

             
          



            Premises and equipment, net
          

             
          

             
          

            3,386
          

             
          



            Other assets
          

             
          

             
          

            5,829
          

             
          



            Servicing liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,972
          

            )
          



            Checks held for escheat
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,145
          

            )
          



            Accrued expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            (25,471
          

            )
          



            Total identifiable net assets
          

             
          

             
          

            2,604,869
          

             
          



            Goodwill
          

             
          

             
          

            65,622
          

             
          



            Total consideration
          

             
          

             
          

            2,670,491
          

             
          



            Litton debt repaid to Goldman Sachs at closing
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,423,123
          

            )
          



            Base purchase price, as adjusted
          

             
          

            $
          

            247,368
          

             
          



       
    

      The allocation of the purchase price is considered
      preliminary and therefore subject to change until the end of
      the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition
      date). We do not anticipate any significant adjustments to
      the allocation of the purchase price subsequent to December
      31, 2011.
    

       
    

      Consistent with our fair value policy for MSRs as disclosed
      in Note 3, we estimated the fair value of the MSRs by
      calculating the present value of expected future cash flows
      utilizing assumptions that we believe are used by market
      participants.
    

       
    

      The initial valuation of premises and equipment was based on
      the in-use valuation premise, where the fair value of an
      asset is based on the highest and best use of the asset that
      would provide maximum value to market participants
      principally through its use with other assets as a group.
      This valuation presumed the continued operation of the Litton
      Loan Servicing Business platform as installed or otherwise
      configured for use. The acquired premises and equipment
      consisted primarily of computer hardware and software. During
      the fourth quarter of 2011, we ceased operation of the Litton
      Loan Servicing Business platform and sold the computer
      hardware and software to Altisource for a cash purchase price
      of $418. The proceeds received were significantly less than
      the appraised value at the time the transaction closed, as
      this appraisal reflected the value of each asset as part of a
      working platform which was no longer the case once we ceased
      operating the Litton Loan Servicing Business in the fourth
      quarter.  These assets were initially valued at $21,302
      on September 1, 2011. As a result of the sale, we reduced the
      provisional fair value assigned to these assets at the
      acquisition date to a value that reflects their subsequent
      sales price and increased the amount allocated to goodwill.
      In addition, certain of the acquired premises and equipment
      are no longer in use and have been written down to their
      salvage value. For those that will be abandoned after year
      end but before the end of their previously estimated useful
      life, depreciation has been adjusted to reflect the shortened
      life. Ocwen is considering subleasing office space acquired
      as part of the Litton Acquisition.
    

       
    

      Advances are non-interest bearing receivables that are
      expected to have a short average collections period and were,
      therefore, valued at their face amount, consistent with
      Ocwen’s fair value policy for servicing advances. Other
      assets and liabilities that are expected to have a short life
      were also valued at the face value of the specific assets and
      liabilities purchased, including receivables, prepaid
      expenses, accounts payable and accrued expenses.
    

       
    




              F-19
              








               
            




       
    

      Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration
      transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the
      expected revenue and cost synergies of the combined business.
      The goodwill portion of the purchase price allocation shown
      in the table above pertains to the Servicing segment.
    

       
    

      The acquisition of Litton is treated as an asset acquisition
      for U.S. tax purposes. We expect the opening tax basis for
      the acquired assets and liabilities to be the fair value as
      shown in the table above. We expect the MSRs and goodwill to
      be treated as intangible assets acquired in connection with
      the purchase of a trade or business and as such, amortized
      over 15 years for tax purposes.
    

       
    

      Additionally, the Agreement provides that the severance plans
      of Litton and Goldman Sachs remain in effect for one year. We
      recognized severance expense of $10,119 during 2011 as steps
      taken to reorganize and streamline the operations of Litton
      obligated Ocwen to pay severance under those plans. Severance
      expense is included in Compensation and benefits in our
      Consolidated Statements of Operations.
    

       
    

      In connection with the establishment of the match funded
      advance facility Ocwen funded a reserve in the initial amount
      of $42,535 which is held by the facility Indenture Trustee
      for the benefit of the note holders. Ocwen also paid Barclays
      an $11,500 arrangement fee in connection with the senior
      secured term loan agreement. This fee along with the discount
      and certain other professional fees incurred in connection
      with the establishment of the facility are being amortized
      over the five-year life of the loan.
    

       
    

      As part of the Litton Acquisition, Goldman Sachs and Ocwen
      have agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of
      the other party. Additionally, Goldman Sachs has agreed to
      retain certain contingent liabilities for fines and penalties
      that could potentially be imposed by certain government
      authorities relating to Litton’s pre-closing
      foreclosure and servicing practices. Further, Goldman Sachs
      and Ocwen have agreed to share certain losses arising out of
      third-party claims in connection with Litton’s
      pre-closing performance under its servicing agreements.
      Goldman Sachs has agreed to be liable for (i) 80% of any such
      losses until the amount paid by Goldman Sachs is equal to 80%
      of the Goldman Shared Loss Cap and (ii) thereafter, 20% of
      any such losses until the amount paid by Goldman Sachs is
      equal to the Goldman Shared Loss Cap. Ocwen has agreed to be
      liable for (i) 20% of any such losses until the amount paid
      by Ocwen is equal to 20% of the Goldman Shared Loss Cap,
      (ii) thereafter, 80% of any such losses until the amount
      paid by Ocwen is equal to the Goldman Shared Loss Cap and
      (iii) thereafter, 100% of any such losses in excess of
      the Goldman Shared Loss Cap. The “Goldman Shared Loss
      Cap” is currently approximately $123,684 or 50% of the
      adjusted base purchase price of the Litton Acquisition, but
      which may be further adjusted if any additional adjustments
      to the purchase price are made.
    

       
    

      In connection with the Litton Acquisition, Ocwen, Goldman
      Sachs Bank USA, Litton and the New York State Banking
      Department have entered into an agreement (the NY Agreement)
      that sets forth certain loan servicing practices and
      operational requirements. No fines, penalties or other
      payments were assessed against Ocwen or Litton under the
      terms of the NY Agreement. We do not believe that our
      commitments under the NY Agreement will have a material
      impact on our financial statements.
    

       
    

      The following table presents the revenue and earnings of the
      Litton Loan Servicing Business that is included in our
      Consolidated Statement of Operations from the acquisition
      date of September 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011:
    

       
    



            Revenues
          

             
          

            $
          

            62,750
          

             
          



            Net loss (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            (20,910
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Net loss includes non-recurring transaction related
            expenses of $49,552, including (i) $33,127 of severance
            and other compensation related to Litton employees,
            (ii) $6,778 of amortization of the acquired MSRs, (iii)
            $1,967 of depreciation resulting from the write-down of
            certain of the acquired furniture and fixtures that are
            no longer in use and (iv) $384 of fees for professional
            services related to the acquisition. Net loss does not
            include an allocation of costs related to the servicing
            of the Litton loans on Ocwen’s platform. We
            computed income taxes using a combined statutory rate
            of 36.12% for federal and state income taxes.
          



       
    




              F-20
              








               
            




       
    

      The following table presents supplemental pro forma
      information as if the acquisition of Litton occurred on
      January 1, 2010. Pro forma adjustments include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            conforming revenues to the revenue recognition policy
            followed by Ocwen rather than the policies followed by
            Litton;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            conforming the accounting for MSRs to the valuation and
            amortization policy of Ocwen rather than the policies
            followed by Litton;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            reversing depreciation recognized by Litton and
            reporting depreciation based on the estimated fair
            values and remaining lives of the acquired premises and
            equipment at the date of acquisition;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            adjusting interest expense to eliminate the
            pre-acquisition interest expense of Litton and to
            recognize interest expense as if the
            acquisition-related debt of Ocwen had been outstanding
            at January 1, 2010; and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            reporting acquisition-related charges, including
            severance paid to Litton employees and fees for
            professional services related to the acquisition as if
            they had been incurred in 2010 rather than 2011.
          



       
    

      The pro forma consolidated results are not indicative of what
      Ocwen’s consolidated net earnings would have been had
      Ocwen completed the acquisition of Litton on January 1, 2010
      because of differences in servicing practices and cost
      structure between Ocwen and Litton. In addition, the pro
      forma consolidated results do not purport to project the
      future results of Ocwen combined nor do they reflect the
      expected realization of any cost savings associated with the
      Litton Acquisition.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010 (1)



             
          



             
          

             
          

            (Unaudited)
          

             
          

             
          

            (Unaudited)
          

             
          



            Revenues
          

             
          

            $
          

            642,033
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            632,721
          

             
          



            Net income (loss)
          

             
          

            $
          

            52,407
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (169,886
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            In December 2010, Litton deemed goodwill to be wholly
            impaired and wrote off the balance of $154,065. Litton
            also recorded a provision for losses on servicing
            advances of $33,734 in 2010.
          



       
    

      Through December 31, 2011, we incurred approximately $1,170
      of fees for professional services related to the Litton
      Acquisition that are included in Operating expenses.
    

       
    

HomEq Acquisition


       
    

      On September 1, 2010, Ocwen completed the HomEq Acquisition.
      The sellers were Barclays Bank PLC, a corporation organized
      under the laws of England and Wales (Barclays), and Barclays
      Capital Real Estate Inc., a corporation organized under the
      laws of the State of Delaware (BCRE). The HomEq Acquisition
      was completed in accordance with the provisions of the Asset
      Purchase Agreement dated May 28, 2010 among Barclays, BCRE,
      OLS and Ocwen. This transaction did not result in the
      transfer of ownership of any legal entities.
    

       
    

      Ocwen acquired HomEq Servicing in order to grow its Servicing
      segment. With the close of the HomEq Acquisition, Ocwen
      boarded 134,000 residential mortgage loans with an aggregate
      unpaid principal balance of $22,400,000 onto its servicing
      platform.
    

       
    

      OLS paid an initial aggregate purchase price of $1,196,747 in
      cash upon completion of the HomEq Acquisition. Of this
      amount, $852,617 was funded by notes issued by a new
      $1,011,000 structured servicing advance financing facility,
      $150,000 was paid from funds held in escrow in accordance
      with the terms of the new $350,000 senior secured term loan
      facility and $194,130 consisted of cash and funds borrowed
      pursuant to the senior secured term loan facility. See
      Note 13 and Note 15 for additional details
      regarding the terms of the notes supporting these facilities.
      The initial purchase price was reduced by $29,625 pursuant to
      an initial true-up of advances as reflected in the table
      below. We recorded a receivable of $1,449 as of December 31,
      2010 for amounts due to us for further true-up under
      adjustment mechanisms and repurchase rights as provided in
      the Asset Purchase Agreement. We collected this receivable in
      2011.
    

       
    

      The transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition
      method of accounting which requires, among other things, the
      assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at
      their fair values as of the acquisition date. The following
      table summarizes the fair values of assets acquired and
      liabilities assumed as part of the HomEq Acquisition:
    

       
    



            Mortgage servicing rights
          

             
          

            $
          

            84,324
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            1,063,180
          

             
          



            Receivables
          

             
          

             
          

            7,957
          

             
          



            Premises and equipment, net
          

             
          

             
          

            6,728
          

             
          



            Checks held for escheat
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,616
          

            )
          



            Accrued bonus
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,037
          

            )
          



            Servicing liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            (709
          

            )
          



            Other liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            (964
          

            )
          



            Total identifiable net assets
          

             
          

             
          

            1,152,863
          

             
          



            Goodwill
          

             
          

             
          

            12,810
          

             
          



            Total consideration
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,165,673
          

             
          



       
    




              F-21
              








               
            




       
    

      We estimated the fair value of the MSRs and consistent with
      Ocwen’s methodology as disclosed above and in
      Note 3. Receivables were valued at their face amount
      because of the short period between the acquisition date and
      realization.
    

       
    

      The valuation of premises and equipment was based on the
      in-use valuation premise where the highest and best use of
      the assets would provide maximum value to market participants
      principally through its use with other assets as a group.
      This valuation presumed the continued operation of the HomEq
      platform as installed or otherwise configured for use. The
      acquired premises and equipment consisted primarily of
      leasehold improvements. As disclosed in Note 10,
      subsequent to the acquisition we vacated the leased premises
      following termination of the former HomEq employees and
      recorded a charge of $5,840 to write off the leasehold
      improvements.
    

       
    

      Other liabilities that are expected to have a short life were
      valued at the face value of the specific liabilities
      purchased, including checks held for escheat, accrued bonuses
      and other liabilities.
    

       
    

      The goodwill portion of the purchase price allocation shown
      in the table above pertains to the Servicing segment.
    

       
    

      The acquisition of HomEq is treated as an asset acquisition
      for U.S. tax purposes. We expect the opening tax basis for
      the acquired assets and liabilities to be the fair value,
      which is shown in the table above. We expect the mortgage
      servicing rights and goodwill to be treated as intangible
      assets acquired in connection with the purchase of a trade or
      business and as such, amortized over 15 years for tax
      purposes.
    

       
    

      The asset purchase agreement provided for a 90-day true-up
      process for Advances and Mortgage servicing rights under
      limited circumstances. Payment for advances in the amount of
      $3,500 was held back in an escrow account under a four-year
      agreement during which Ocwen can seek reimbursement for
      existing and future uncollectible advances on certain pooling
      and servicing agreements under limited circumstances.
      Notwithstanding this holdback amount, the agreement provides
      for the reimbursement of uncollectible advances under all
      pooling and servicing agreements under limited circumstances.
    

       
    

      Severance payments for all HomEq Servicing employees who
      entered an employment agreement with Ocwen were recorded as
      steps were taken that obligated Ocwen to pay severance for
      all such employees. Severance expense of $20,727 is included
      in Compensation and benefits in our Consolidated Statement of
      Operations.
    

       
    

      In connection with the establishment of the match funded
      advance facility Ocwen paid Barclays a $10,110 securitization
      fee and funded a reserve in the initial amount of $14,342
      held by the facility Indenture Trustee for the benefit of the
      note holders. The securitization fee along with and certain
      other professional fees paid in connection with the
      establishment of the facility will be amortized over the
      expected three-year life of the notes.
    

       
    

      Ocwen has no material financial obligation for litigation
      related to the operations of HomEq prior to the closing.
    

       
    

      The following table presents the revenue and earnings of
      HomEq Servicing that are included in our Consolidated
      Statement of Operations from the acquisition date of
      September 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010:
    

       
    



            Revenues
          

             
          

            $
          

            43,127
          

             
          



            Net loss (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            (26,953
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Net loss includes non-recurring transaction-related
            expenses of $51,136, including (i) $32,954 of severance
            and other compensation related to HomEq employees who
            accepted employment with Ocwen, (ii) $7,794 of lease
            termination costs, (iii) $5,840 of depreciation
            resulting from the write off of leasehold improvements,
            (iv) $5,486 of amortization of the acquired MSRs and
            (v) $2,556 of fees for professional services related to
            the acquisition. Net loss does not include an
            allocation of costs related to the servicing of the
            HomEq loans on Ocwen’s platform. We computed
            income taxes using a combined statutory rate of 37% for
            federal and state income taxes.
          



       
    




              F-22
              








               
            




       
    

      The following table presents supplemental pro forma
      information as if the acquisition HomEq Servicing occurred on
      January 1, 2009. Pro forma adjustments are the same as those
      described above for the Litton Acquisition. In addition, the
      pro forma adjustments include reversing revenues recognized
      by HomEq for business not acquired by Ocwen.
    

       
    

      The pro forma consolidated results are not indicative of what
      Ocwen’s consolidated net earnings would have been had
      Ocwen completed the acquisition HomEq Servicing on January 1,
      2009 because of differences in servicing practices and cost
      structure between Ocwen and HomEq Servicing. In addition, the
      pro forma consolidated results do not purport to project the
      future results of Ocwen combined nor do they reflect the
      expected realization of any cost savings associated with the
      HomEq Acquisition.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2010



 


 



2009



             
          



             
          

             
          

            (Unaudited)
          

             
          

             
          

            (Unaudited)
          

             
          



            Revenues
          

             
          

            $
          

            458,548
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            591,505
          

             
          



            Net income (loss)
          

             
          

            $
          

            42,786
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (26,824
          

            )
          



       
    

      Through December 31, 2010, we incurred approximately $3,977
      of fees for professional services related to the HomEq
      Acquisition which are also included in Operating expenses.
    

       
    

Facility Closure Costs


       
    

      During 2010, we accrued facility closure costs primarily
      consisting of severance, Worker Adjustment and Retraining
      Notification Act (WARN Act) compensation and lease
      termination costs for closure of the leased HomEq facilities.
      Following the acquisition, we terminated the former HomEq
      employees and vacated the leased facilities. Following the
      Litton Acquisition we also incurred severance and WARN Act
      compensation during 2011 related to terminated employees. The
      following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning
      and ending liability balances for HomEq and Litton employee
      termination benefits and for HomEq lease termination costs:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Employee
              termination
              benefits (1)



 


 



Lease
              termination
              costs (2)



 


 



Total



             
          



            Liability balance as at January 1, 2010
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



            Additions charged to operations (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            32,954
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,794
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            40,748
          

             
          



            Payments
          

             
          

             
          

            (31,622
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (31,622
          

            )
          



            Liability balance as at December 31, 2010 (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            1,332
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,794
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,126
          

             
          



            Additions charged to operations (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            33,127
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,127
          

             
          



            Amortization of discount
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            99
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            99
          

             
          



            Payments
          

             
          

             
          

            (29,296
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,606
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (31,902
          

            )
          



            Liability balance as at December 31, 2011 (3)
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,163
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,287
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            10,450
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Employee termination benefits include severance expense
            of $20,727 and $10,119 related to HomEq Servicing and
            Litton, respectively. The remaining liability of $1,332
            for employee termination benefits related to the HomEq
            Acquisition was settled in 2011.  We expect to pay
            the remaining liability of $5,163 for employee
            termination benefits related to the Litton Acquisition
            during the first quarter of 2012.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            The lease agreements that we assumed for the HomEq
            facilities expire in 2017 and 2018. In December 2010,
            we exercised our option to terminate the HomEq lease
            agreements effective in 2013 and provided formal notice
            to the lessors. At that time, we recorded a charge of
            $7,794 to establish a reserve for the remaining lease
            payments discounted through the early termination date,
            including early termination penalties due in 2013.
            These charges are reported in Occupancy and equipment
            expense. See Note 30 for additional information
            regarding these leases.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            All charges were recorded in the Servicing segment. The
            liabilities are included in Other liabilities in the
            Consolidated Balance Sheet.
          



       
    

      In addition to the HomEq facility closure costs described
      above, we recorded a depreciation charge of $5,840 to write
      off the leasehold improvements related to the closed HomEq
      facilities.
    

       
    




              F-23
              








               
            




 


NOTE 3 FAIR VALUE


       
    

      The carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of our
      financial instruments are as follows at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 




 


 



Carrying


Value



 


 



Fair


Value



 


 



Carrying


Value



 


 



Fair


Value



             
          



            Financial assets:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale
          

             
          

            $
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            25,803
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            25,803
          

             
          



            Loans, net – restricted for securitization
            investors
          

             
          

             
          

            58,560
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            55,165
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            67,340
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            64,795
          

             
          



            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            3,733,502
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,733,502
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,108,885
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,108,885
          

             
          



            Receivables, net
          

             
          

             
          

            83,202
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            83,202
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            69,518
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            69,518
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Financial liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Match funded liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,558,951
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,569,131
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,482,529
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,486,476
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            540,369
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            550,860
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            246,073
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            252,722
          

             
          



            Secured borrowings – owed to securitization
            investors
          

             
          

             
          

            53,323
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            52,652
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,705
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            62,105
          

             
          



            Debt securities
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            92,125
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            75,325
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Derivative financial instruments, net
          

             
          

            $
          

            (16,676
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (16,676
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          



       
    

      Fair value is estimated based on a hierarchy that maximizes
      the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of
      unobservable inputs. Observable inputs are inputs that
      reflect the assumptions market participants would use in
      pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data
      obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity.
      Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the reporting
      entity’s own assumptions about the assumptions market
      participants would use in pricing the asset or liability
      developed based on the best information available in the
      circumstances. The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the
      inputs to valuation techniques into three broad levels
      whereby the highest priority is given to Level 1 inputs and
      the lowest to Level 3 inputs. The three broad categories
      are:
    

       
    



             
          

            Level 1:
          

            Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
            liabilities.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            Level 2:
          

            Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for
            the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly
            for substantially the full term of the financial
            instrument.
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            Level 3:
          

            Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
          



       
    

      Where available, we utilize quoted market prices or
      observable inputs rather than unobservable inputs to
      determine fair value. We classify assets in their entirety
      based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the
      fair value measurement. The following table presents assets
      and liabilities measured at fair value categorized by input
      level within the fair value hierarchy:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Carrying
              value



 


 



Level 1



 


 



Level 2



 


 



Level 3



             
          



            At December 31, 2011:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Derivative financial instruments, net (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            (16,676
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (16,676
          

            )
          



            Measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,633
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            214
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            214
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            At December 31, 2010:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Derivative financial instruments, net (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          



            Measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,803
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            334
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            334
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The derivative financial instruments are not
            exchange-traded and therefore quoted market prices or
            other observable inputs are not available. Therefore,
            we classify derivatives within Level 3 of the fair
            value hierarchy. Fair value is based on certain
            information provided by third-party pricing sources.
            See Note 19 for additional information on
            derivative financial instruments.
          



       
    




              F-24
              








               
            




       
    



            (2)
          

            Loans held for resale are measured at fair value on a
            non-recurring basis. All loans held for resale were
            measured at fair value because the cost exceeded the
            estimated fair value. Current market illiquidity has
            reduced the availability of observable pricing data.
            Consequently, we classify these loans within Level 3 of
            the fair value hierarchy. See Note 4 for
            additional information on loans held for resale.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            The carrying value of MSRs at December 31, 2011 and
            2010 is net of a valuation allowance for impairment of
            $2,290 and $2,864, respectively. The carrying value of
            the impaired stratum, net of the valuation allowance,
            was $214 and $334 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
            respectively. The estimated fair value exceeded
            amortized cost for all other strata. See Note 8
            for additional information on MSRs.
          



       
    

      The following tables present a reconciliation of the changes
      in fair value of Level 3 assets that we measure at fair value
      on a recurring basis:
    

       
    




For the year ended December 31, 2011:



 



Derivative
              Financial
              Instruments



             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Beginning balance
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Purchases
          

             
          

             
          

            3,688
          

             
          



            Issuances
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Sales
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Settlements
          

             
          

             
          

            85
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,773
          

             
          



            Total realized and unrealized gains and (losses) (1):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Included in Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,881
          

            )
          



            Included in Other comprehensive income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            783
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,098
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Transfers in and / or out of Level 3
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Ending balance
          

             
          

            $
          

            (16,676
          

            )
          



       
    




              F-25
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          

 


 


 



Trading Securities



 


 


 


 





For the year ended December 31, 2010:



 



Derivative
              Financial
              Instruments



 


 



Auction
              Rate


Securities



 


 



Subordinates
              and
              Residuals



 


 



Total



             
          



            Beginning balance (2) (3)
          

             
          

            $
          

            (45
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            247,464
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            59
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            247,478
          

             
          



            Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Purchases
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Issuances
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Sales
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (146,810
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (146,810
          

            )
          



            Settlements
          

             
          

             
          

            (738
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (92,745
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (93,483
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            (738
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (239,555
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (240,293
          

            )
          



            Total realized and unrealized gains and (losses) (1):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Included in Gain (loss) on trading securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,909
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (59
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,968
          

            )
          



            Included in Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (133
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (133
          

            )
          



            Included in Other comprehensive income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            (14,435
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (14,435
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            (14,568
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,909
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (59
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (22,536
          

            )
          



            Transfers in and / or out of Level 3
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Ending balance
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,351
          

            )
          



       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          


Trading Securities



 


 


 





For the year ended December 31, 2009:



 



Derivative
              Financial
              Instruments



 


 



Auction
              Rate
              Securities



 


 



Subordinates
              and
              Residuals



 


 



Total



             
          



            Beginning balance
          

             
          

            $
          

            193
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            239,301
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,369
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            243,863
          

             
          



            Purchases, issuances, sales and settlements:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Purchases
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Issuances
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Sales
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,700
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,700
          

            )
          



            Settlements
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,700
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,700
          

            )
          



            Total realized and unrealized gains and (losses):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Included in Gain (loss) on trading securities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,863
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (677
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            11,186
          

             
          



            Included in Other, net
          

             
          

             
          

            588
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            588
          

             
          



            Included in Other comprehensive income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            588
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,863
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (677
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            11,774
          

             
          



            Transfers in and / or out of Level 3
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Ending balance
          

             
          

            $
          

            781
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            247,464
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,692
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            251,937
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Total losses attributable to derivative financial
            instruments still held at December 31, 2011 and 2010
            were $5,114 and $13,775, respectively.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            The fair values of derivative financial instruments as
            of January 1, 2010 were adjusted to include $(826)
            related to an interest rate swap that is held by one of
            the newly consolidated securitization trusts.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            Effective January 1, 2010, we eliminated our investment
            in subordinate and residual securities that were issued
            by consolidated securitization trusts as more fully
            described in Note 1—Securitizations of
            Residential Mortgage Loans.
          



       
    




              F-26
              








               
            




       
    

      The methodologies that we use and key assumptions that we
      make to estimate the fair value of instruments are described
      in more detail by instrument below:
    

       
    

Derivative Financial Instruments


       
    

      Exchange-traded derivative financial instruments are valued
      based on quoted market prices. If quoted market prices or
      other observable inputs are not available, fair value is
      based on certain information provided by third-party pricing
      sources. We review this information to ensure that it
      provides a reasonable basis for estimating fair value. Our
      review is designed to identify information that appears
      stale, information that has changed significantly from the
      prior period, and other indicators that the information may
      not be accurate.
    

       
    

Loans Held for Resale


       
    

      Loans held for resale are reported at the lower of cost or
      fair value. We account for the excess of cost over fair value
      as a valuation allowance with changes in the valuation
      allowance included in Loss on loans held for resale, net, in
      the period in which the change occurs. All loans held for
      resale were measured at fair value because their cost of
      $34,890 exceeded their estimated fair value of $20,633 at
      December 31, 2011.
    

       
    

      When we enter into an agreement to sell a loan to an investor
      at a set price, the loan is valued at the commitment price.
      The fair value of loans for which we do not have a firm
      commitment to sell is based upon a discounted cash flow
      analysis. We stratify our fair value estimate of uncommitted
      loans held for resale based upon the delinquency status of
      the loans. We base the fair value of our performing loans on
      the expected future cash flows discounted at a rate
      commensurate with the risk of the estimated cash flows.
      Significant assumptions include collateral and loan
      characteristics, prevailing market conditions and the
      creditworthiness of the borrower. The fair value of our
      non-performing loans is determined based upon the underlying
      collateral of the loan and the estimated period and cost of
      disposition of the collateral.
    

       
    

Loans – Restricted for Securitization Investors


       
    

      Loans – restricted for securitization investors are
      reported at cost, less an allowance for loan losses and are
      comprised of loans that are secured by first or second liens
      on one- to four-family residential properties. We base the
      fair value of our loans on the expected future cash flows
      discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk of the
      estimated cash flows. Significant assumptions include
      expected prepayment rates and delinquency and cumulative loss
      curves.
    

       
    

Mortgage Servicing Rights


       
    

      We estimate the fair value of our MSRs by calculating the
      present value of expected future cash flows utilizing
      assumptions that we believe are used by market participants.
      The most significant assumptions used in our internal
      valuation are the speed at which mortgages prepay and
      delinquency experience, both of which we derive from our
      historical experience and available market data. Other
      assumptions used in our internal valuation are:
    

       
    



             
          

            ●
          

            Cost of servicing
          

             
          

            ●
          

            Interest rate used for computing float earnings
          



             
          

            ●
          

            Discount rate
          

             
          

            ●
          

            Compensating interest expense
          



             
          

            ●
          

            Interest rate used for computing the cost of Servicing
            advances
          

             
          

            ●
          

            Collection rate of other ancillary fees
          



       
    

       
    

      The significant components of the estimated future cash
      inflows for MSRs include servicing fees, late fees,
      prepayment penalties, float earnings and other ancillary
      fees. Significant cash outflows include the cost of
      servicing, the cost of financing servicing advances and
      compensating interest payments. We derive prepayment speeds
      and delinquency assumptions from historical experience
      adjusted for prevailing market conditions. We develop the
      discount rate internally, and we consider external
      market-based assumptions in determining the interest rate for
      the cost of financing advances, the interest rate for float
      earnings and the cost of servicing. The more significant
      assumptions used in the December 31, 2011 valuation include
      prepayment speeds ranging from 13.96% to 21.71% (depending on
      loan type) and delinquency rates ranging from 15.61% to
      25.49% (depending on loan type). Other assumptions include an
      interest rate of 1-month LIBOR plus 4% for computing the cost
      of financing advances, an interest rate of 1-month LIBOR for
      computing float earnings and a discount rate of 20%.
    

       
    

      We perform an impairment analysis based on the difference
      between the carrying amount and fair value after grouping our
      loans into the applicable strata based on one or more of the
      predominant risk characteristics of the underlying loans. The
      risk factors used to assign loans to strata include the
      credit score (FICO) of the borrower, the loan to value ratio
      and the default risk. Our strata include:
    

       
    



             
          

            ●
          

            Subprime
          

             
          

            ●
          

            Re-performing
          



             
          

            ●
          

            ALT A
          

             
          

            ●
          

            Special servicing
          



             
          

            ●
          

            High-loan-to-value
          

             
          

            ●
          

            Other
          



       
    




              F-27
              








               
            




       
    

Advances


       
    

      We value advances that we make on loans that we service for
      others at their carrying amounts because they have no stated
      maturity, generally are realized within a relatively short
      period of time and do not bear interest.
    

       
    

Receivables


       
    

      The carrying value of receivables generally approximates fair
      value because of the relatively short period of time between
      their origination and realization.
    

       
    

Borrowings


       
    

      Borrowings not subject to a hedging relationship are carried
      at amortized cost. We base the fair value of our debt
      securities on quoted market prices. The carrying value of
      match funded liabilities and secured borrowings that bear
      interest at a rate that is adjusted regularly based on a
      market index approximates fair value. For other match funded
      or secured borrowings that bear interest at a fixed rate, we
      determine fair value by discounting the contractual future
      principal and interest repayments at a market rate
      commensurate with the risk of the estimated cash flows. We
      carry certain zero-coupon long-term secured borrowings with
      an implicit fixed rate at a discounted value and determine
      fair value by discounting the contractual future principal
      repayments at a market rate that is commensurate with the
      risk of the estimated cash flows.
    

       
    

NOTE 4 LOANS HELD FOR RESALE


       
    

      Loans held for resale primarily represent subprime single
      family residential loans that we do not intend to hold to
      maturity. The carrying value of these loans amounted to
      $20,633 and $25,803 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
      respectively. The balances at December 31, 2011 and 2010 are
      net of valuation allowances of $14,257 and $14,611,
      respectively. Loans held for resale at December 31, 2011 and
      2010 include non-performing loans with a carrying value of
      $8,553 and $11,247, respectively.
    

       
    

NOTE 5 ADVANCES


       
    

      Advances, representing payments made on behalf of borrowers
      or on foreclosed properties, as more fully described in
      Note 1—Mortgage Servicing Fees and Advances,
      consisted of the following at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Servicing:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Principal and interest
          

             
          

            $
          

            30,462
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            82,060
          

             
          



            Taxes and insurance
          

             
          

             
          

            33,387
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            49,785
          

             
          



            Foreclosures and bankruptcy costs
          

             
          

             
          

            8,390
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            27,163
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            27,442
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            21,701
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            99,681
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            180,709
          

             
          



            Corporate Items and Other
          

             
          

             
          

            3,910
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,124
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            103,591
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            184,833
          

             
          



       
    

      Servicing advances of $75,489 were pledged as collateral
      under the term reimbursement advance borrowing as of December
      31, 2010. This borrowing was repaid in full in 2011. See
      Note 15 for additional information.
    

       
    

NOTE 6 MATCH FUNDED ADVANCES


       
    

      Match funded advances on residential loans we service for
      others, as more fully described in Note 1—
      Principles of Consolidation—Financings of Advances on
      Loans Serviced for Others, are comprised of the following at
      December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Principal and interest
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,679,536
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            947,990
          

             
          



            Taxes and insurance
          

             
          

             
          

            1,452,707
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            684,928
          

             
          



            Foreclosures and bankruptcy costs
          

             
          

             
          

            259,231
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            140,181
          

             
          



            Real estate servicing costs
          

             
          

             
          

            121,705
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            116,064
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            116,732
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            34,889
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,629,911
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,924,052
          

             
          



       
    




              F-28
              








               
            




 


NOTE 7 LOANS – RESTRICTED FOR SECURITIZATION
      INVESTORS


       
    

      Loans – restricted for securitization investors are
      held by four securitization trusts that we include in our
      consolidated financial statements, as more fully described in
      Note 1—Securitizations of Residential Mortgage
      Loans. Loans – restricted for securitization investors
      consisted of the following at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Single family residential loans (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            61,262
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            69,718
          

             
          



            Allowance for loans losses
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,702
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,378
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            58,560
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            67,340
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Includes nonperforming loans of $11,861 and $12,933 at
            December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
          



       
    

      We report loans held by the consolidated securitization
      trusts at cost, less an allowance for loan losses. We
      consider loans held by the trusts to be nonperforming if they
      are delinquent greater than 89 days or if the loan is in
      foreclosure or in bankruptcy. We do not accrue for interest
      on nonperforming loans. In situations where the trusts
      foreclose upon the collateral, we classify the loans as real
      estate, a component of Other assets. We report as Other, net
      the losses that are realized by the trusts on loans or real
      estate resolved through repayment of less than the unpaid
      principal balance of the loan in full plus any costs incurred
      by the servicer to resolve the loan or real estate.
    

       
    

      We maintain an allowance for loan losses for loans and real
      estate held by the trusts at a level that based upon our
      evaluation of known and inherent risks in the collateral of
      the trusts we consider to be adequate to provide for probable
      losses. We base our ongoing evaluation of the allowance for
      loan losses upon an analysis of the collateral of the trusts,
      historical loss experience, economic conditions and trends,
      collateral values and other relevant factors.
    

       
    

      At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the trusts held 1,405 and
      1,591 loans, respectively, that are secured by first or
      second liens on one- to four-family residential properties.
      At December 31, 2011, these loans have a weighted average
      coupon rate of 9.05% and a weighted average remaining life of
      129 months. This compares to a weighted average coupon rate
      of 9.07% and a weighted average remaining life of 136 months
      as of December 31, 2010.
    

       
    

NOTE 8 MORTGAGE SERVICING


       
    

Servicing Assets. Servicing assets, or MSRs, are
      comprised of a single residential class. We no longer own
      commercial servicing assets following the sale of those
      assets in 2008. The following table summarizes the activity
      in the carrying value of residential servicing assets for the
      years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011:
    

       
    



            Balance at December 31, 2008
          

             
          

            $
          

            139,500
          

             
          



            Purchases
          

             
          

             
          

            10,241
          

             
          



            Servicing transfers and adjustments
          

             
          

             
          

            (20
          

            )
          



            Decrease in impairment valuation allowance
          

             
          

             
          

            670
          

             
          



            Amortization (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            (32,589
          

            )
          



            Balance at December 31, 2009
          

             
          

             
          

            117,802
          

             
          



            Purchases (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            107,749
          

             
          



            Servicing transfers and adjustments
          

             
          

             
          

            (29
          

            )
          



            Decrease in impairment valuation allowance
          

             
          

             
          

            90
          

             
          



            Amortization (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            (31,627
          

            )
          



            Balance at December 31, 2010
          

             
          

             
          

            193,985
          

             
          



            Purchases (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            144,314
          

             
          



            Decrease in impairment valuation allowance
          

             
          

             
          

            574
          

             
          



            Amortization (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            (45,721
          

            )
          



            Balance at December 31, 2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            293,152
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            In the Consolidated Statement of Operations,
            Amortization of mortgage servicing rights is reported
            net of the amortization of servicing liabilities and
            includes the amount of charges we recognized to
            increase servicing liability obligations.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            Purchases for 2010 include $84,324 of residential MSRs
            acquired as part of the HomEq Acquisition.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            Purchases for 2011 represent the residential MSRs
            acquired as a part of the Litton Acquisition.
          



       
    




              F-29
              








               
            




       
    

      The estimated amortization expense for MSRs, calculated based
      on assumptions used at December 31, 2011, is projected as
      follows over the next five years:
    

       
    



            2012
          

             
          

            $
          

            57,148
          

             
          



            2013
          

             
          

             
          

            46,094
          

             
          



            2014
          

             
          

             
          

            37,178
          

             
          



            2015
          

             
          

             
          

            29,986
          

             
          



            2016
          

             
          

             
          

            24,186
          

             
          



       
    

      The following table presents the composition of our servicing
      and subservicing portfolios by type of property serviced as
      measured by UPB. The servicing portfolio represents purchased
      MSRs while subservicing generally represents all other MSRs.
    

       
    



            UPB of Assets Serviced:
          

             
          


Residential



 


 



Commercial



 


 



Total



             
          



            Balance at December 31, 2009
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            27,408,436
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            27,408,436
          

             
          



            Subservicing
          

             
          

             
          

            22,571,641
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            211,603
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,783,244
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            49,980,077
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            211,603
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            50,191,680
          

             
          



            Balance at December 31, 2010
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            51,252,380
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            51,252,380
          

             
          



            Subservicing
          

             
          

             
          

            22,634,011
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            434,305
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            23,068,316
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            73,886,391
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            434,305
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            74,320,696
          

             
          



            Balance at December 31, 2011
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,675,160
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,675,160
          

             
          



            Subservicing
          

             
          

             
          

            23,524,062
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            290,863
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            23,814,925
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            102,199,222
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            290,863
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            102,490,085
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Residential assets serviced consist principally of
            mortgage loans, primarily subprime, but also include
            foreclosed real estate. Commercial assets subserviced
            consist of foreclosed real estate.
          



       
    

      At December 31, 2011, the geographic distribution of the UPB
      and count of residential loans and real estate we serviced
      was as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Amount



 


 



Count



             
          



            California
          

             
          

            $
          

            20,605,264
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            74,944
          

             
          



            Florida
          

             
          

             
          

            11,338,397
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            72,393
          

             
          



            New York
          

             
          

             
          

            9,204,876
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,687
          

             
          



            Texas
          

             
          

             
          

            5,341,919
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            63,003
          

             
          



            Illinois
          

             
          

             
          

            4,547,186
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            30,658
          

             
          



            Other (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            51,161,580
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            392,938
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            102,199,222
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            671,623
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Consisted of loans and properties in 45 other states,
            the District of Columbia and two U.S. territories. No
            other single location had aggregate loans and
            properties over $3,700,655.
          



       
    

Valuation Allowance for Impairment. During 2008, we
      established a valuation allowance for impairment of $3,624 on
      the high-loan-to-value stratum of our mortgage servicing
      rights as the estimated fair value was less than the carrying
      value. Changes in the valuation allowance for impairment are
      reflected in Servicing and origination expenses in the
      Consolidated Statement of Operations. Net of the valuation
      allowance of $2,290 and $2,864, the carrying value of this
      stratum was $214 and $334 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
      respectively. For all other strata, the fair value exceeded
      the carrying value.
    

       
    

      The estimated fair value of residential MSRs at December 31,
      2011, 2010 and 2009 was $340,015, $237,407 and $127,268,
      respectively.
    

       
    

Servicing Liabilities. Servicing liabilities are
      included in Other liabilities. See Note 17 for
      additional information.
    

       
    




              F-30
              








               
            




 


NOTE 9 RECEIVABLES


       
    

      Receivables consisted of the following at the dates
      indicated:
    

       
    



             
          

 



Receivables



 


 



Allowance for
              Credit Losses



 


 



Net



             
          




December 30, 2011



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            53,852
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (1,648
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            52,204
          

             
          



            Income taxes receivable
          

             
          

             
          

            21,518
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            21,518
          

             
          



            Affordable housing (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            5,568
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,019
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            549
          

             
          



            Due from Altisource (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            2,309
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,309
          

             
          



            Other receivables (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            7,884
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,262
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            6,622
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            91,131
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (7,929
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            83,202
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          




December 31, 2010



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Servicing (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            59,436
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (262
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            59,174
          

             
          



            Income taxes receivable
          

             
          

             
          

            3,620
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,620
          

             
          



            Affordable housing (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            6,882
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,866
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,016
          

             
          



            Due from Altisource (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            2,445
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,445
          

             
          



            Other receivables
          

             
          

             
          

            4,586
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,323
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            3,263
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            76,969
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (7,451
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            69,518
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The balances at December 31, 2011 and 2010 arise from
            our Servicing business and primarily include
            reimbursable expenditures due from investors and
            amounts to be recovered from the custodial accounts of
            the trustees.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            The balances at December 31, 2011 and 2010 primarily
            represent annual payments to be received through June
            2014 for proceeds from sales of investments in
            affordable housing properties. None of these
            receivables is delinquent.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            See Note 28 for additional information regarding
            our relationship with Altisource and transactions
            between Ocwen and Altisource.
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            The balance includes the interest rate cap we entered
            into in 2011 which had a fair value of $3,600 at
            December 31, 2011. See Note 19 for additional
            information regarding our derivative financial
            instruments.
          



       
    

      Receivable balances are evaluated individually. The change in
      the allowance for credit losses for 2011 and the balance of
      the related receivables at those dates were as follows (the
      disclosure requirements for the allowance for credit losses
      do not apply to mortgage banking activities, including the
      long-term servicing of loans, such as the activities of our
      Servicing segment):
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Affordable
              Housing



 


 



Other



 


 



Total



             
          



            Allowance for credit losses balance at December 31,
            2010
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,866
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,323
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,189
          

             
          



            Charge offs
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (8
          

            )
          



            Recoveries
          

             
          

             
          

            (48
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (140
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (188
          

            )
          



            Provision (reversal), net
          

             
          

             
          

            (799
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            87
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (712
          

            )
          



            Allowance for credit losses balance at December 31,
            2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,019
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,262
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            6,281
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Receivables balance at December 31, 2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,568
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,884
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            13,452
          

             
          



       
    




              F-31
              








               
            




 


NOTE 10 PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT


       
    

      Our premises and equipment are summarized as follows at
      December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Computer hardware and software
          

             
          

            $
          

            15,208
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            14,619
          

             
          



            Leasehold improvements
          

             
          

             
          

            6,894
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,626
          

             
          



            Furniture and fixtures
          

             
          

             
          

            8,559
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,528
          

             
          



            Office equipment and other
          

             
          

             
          

            5,932
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,439
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            36,593
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,212
          

             
          



            Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
          

             
          

             
          

            (29,243
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (25,737
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,350
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,475
          

             
          



       
    

      In 2011, we acquired premises and equipment with a fair value
      of $3,386 as part of the Litton Acquisition. These assets
      consisted primarily of computer hardware and software and
      furniture and fixtures. As disclosed in Note 2, during
      the fourth quarter of 2011, we sold the computer hardware and
      software we acquired from Litton to Altisource for cash
      proceeds equal to the net book value of $418 which
      approximates the acquisition fair value, as adjusted. In
      2010, we sold the equipment we acquired in the HomEq
      Acquisition to Altisource for cash proceeds equal to the
      acquisition fair value of $888. As a result, we recognized no
      gain or loss on these sales.  
    

       
    

      Depreciation and other amortization expense amounted to
      $4,160, $7,512 and $4,742 for 2011, 2010 and 2009.
      Depreciation for 2011 includes a charge of $1,967 to
      write-down certain furniture and fixtures acquired from
      Litton that we ceased to use during the four quarter.
      Depreciation expense for 2010 includes a charge of $5,840 to
      write off leasehold improvements related to HomEq facilities
      that we vacated following termination of the former HomEq
      employees.
    

       
    

NOTE 11 INVESTMENT IN UNCONSOLIDATED ENTITIES


       
    

      Investment in unconsolidated entities consisted of the
      following at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Asset Management Vehicles:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Investment in OSI (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,561
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,572
          

             
          



            Investment in ONL and affiliates (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            1,475
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,420
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,036
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,992
          

             
          



            Corporate Items and Other:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Investment in Correspondent One (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            14,470
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            1
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            80
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            14,471
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            80
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            23,507
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            12,072
          

             
          



       
    

      Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated entities was as
      follows for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            OSI (1) (4)
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,001
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,195
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (1,756
          

            )
          



            ONL and affiliates (2) (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,217
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            176
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,177
          

            )
          



            Correspondent One (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            (530
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (746
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,371
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (2,933
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Our investment in OSI represents a 27% equity interest.
            OSI invests in the lower tranches and residuals of
            residential mortgage-backed securities, the related
            mortgage servicing rights and other similar assets.
            During 2011, we received distributions from OSI
            totaling $750. We have no remaining commitment to
            invest in OSI. On December 22, 2011, we acquired a 2%
            ownership interest held by another investor in OSI.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            Our investment in ONL and affiliates represent equity
            interests of approximately 25%. ONL resolves
            non-performing loans purchased at a discount. An
            affiliate purchases real estate for sale, including
            real estate that ONL may obtain through foreclosure.
            During 2011, we received distributions totaling $1,665
            from ONL and affiliates. We have no remaining
            commitment to invest in ONL.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            In March 2011, we acquired a 50% interest in
            Correspondent One. Correspondent One facilitates the
            purchase of conforming and government-guaranteed
            residential mortgages from approved mortgage
            originators and resells the mortgages to secondary
            market investors. During 2011, we funded all of our
            committed $15,000 investment. Subsequent investments in
            Correspondent One by unrelated third parties reduced
            our interest to 49% as of December 31, 2011.
          



       
    




              F-32
              








               
            




       
    



            (4)
          

            We earn loan servicing and management fees from OSI and
            from ONL and affiliates. In determining the amount of
            consolidated equity in earnings to recognize, we add
            back our share of the loan servicing and management fee
            expense recognized by OSI, ONL and affiliates. During
            2011, 2010, 2009, OLS earned fees of $2,645, $3,064 and
            $4,481, respectively, from OSI and from ONL and
            affiliates. On a consolidated basis, we have recognized
            approximately 75% of the loan servicing and management
            fee revenue.
          



       
    

      Summarized combined financial information of our
      unconsolidated entities at and for the years ended December
      31 is as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

 



2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009 (1)



             
          



            Operations
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Revenues, net, and investment income, net
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,892
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,287
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (9,641
          

            )
          



            Losses on investments and derivatives, net
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,458
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,470
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (10,611
          

            )
          



            Net income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,651
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            2,817
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (42,206
          

            )
          



            Financial Condition
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Total assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            66,405
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            49,354
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,001,751
          

             
          



            Total liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            1,915
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,245
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            987,784
          

             
          



            Total equity
          

             
          

             
          

            64,490
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            48,109
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            13,967
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            For 2009, the amounts presented include BHI
            Liquidation, Inc. (formerly BMS Holdings, Inc.), in
            which we have an equity interest of approximately 45%.
            BMS Holdings, Inc. had total assets of $940,618, total
            liabilities of $986,592, equity of $(45,974), net
            revenues of $(17,625), income on investments and
            derivatives of $13,642 and a net loss of $25,937. As a
            result of accumulated losses, we reduced our investment
            in BHI Liquidation, Inc. to zero in the second quarter
            of 2008 and have not recognized any equity in its
            income or losses since that time. Effective October 1,
            2010, BHI Liquidation, Inc. transferred its interests
            in Bankruptcy Management Solutions, Inc. (the operating
            entity) to debt holders as part of a restructuring plan
            and no longer has any assets or operations.
          



       
    



            NOTE 12 
          

            OTHER ASSETS
          



       
    

      Other assets consisted of the following at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Debt service accounts (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            115,867
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            86,234
          

             
          



            Interest earning collateral deposits (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            27,191
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25,738
          

             
          



            Prepaid lender fees and debt issuance costs, net (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            27,113
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,467
          

             
          



            Real estate, net
          

             
          

             
          

            3,368
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,682
          

             
          



            Term note (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,600
          

             
          



            Prepaid expenses and other
          

             
          

             
          

            12,403
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            13,561
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            185,942
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            158,282
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Under our four advance funding facilities, we are
            contractually required to remit collections on pledged
            advances to the trustee within two days of receipt. The
            collected funds are not applied to reduce the related
            match funded debt until the payment dates specified in
            the indenture. The balances also include amounts that
            have been set aside from the proceeds of our four match
            funded advance facilities to provide for possible
            shortfalls in the funds available to pay certain
            expenses and interest. These funds are held in interest
            earning accounts.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            The balances include $19,623 and $18,684 of cash
            collateral held by the counterparties to certain of our
            derivative agreements at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
            respectively.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            Unamortized costs at December 31, 2011 and 2010 relate
            to match funded liabilities and other secured
            borrowings of the Servicing segment. We amortize these
            costs to the earlier of the scheduled amortization
            date, contractual maturity date or prepayment date of
            the debt.
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            In September 2011, we collected this term note in full
            and repaid a five-year note that was payable to the
            same counterparty. We originally issued a $7,000 note
            receivable in March 2009 with a maturity date of April
            1, 2014 in connection with advances funded by the Ocwen
            Servicer Advance Funding, LLC (OSAF) term note pledged
            as collateral. See Note 15 for additional
            information.
          



       
    




              F-33
              








               
            




       
    

NOTE 13 MATCH FUNDED LIABILITIES


       
    

      Match funded liabilities, as more fully described in
      Note 1—Principles of Consolidation –
      Financings of Advances on Loans Serviced for Others, are
      comprised of the following:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

Unused


             
          

             
          

Balance Outstanding


             
          



Borrowing Type


             
          

Interest Rate


             
          

Maturity (1)


             
          

Amortization
            Date (1)


             
          

Borrowing
            Capacity (2)


             
          

             
          

December 31,
            2011


             
          

             
          

December 31,
            2010


             
          



            Promissory Note (3)
          

             
          

             3.3875%
          

             
          

             
          

            Sept. 2013
          

             
          

            Sept. 2013
          

             
          

            $
          

            342,699
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,784,043
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



            Advance Receivable Backed Note Series 2009-3 (4)
          

             
          

             4.14%
          

             
          

             
          

            July 2023
          

             
          

            July 2012
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            210,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            210,000
          

             
          




              Variable Funding
            

              Note Series 2009-2 (5)
            


             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 350 bps
          

             
          

            Nov. 2023
          

             
          

            Nov. 2012
          

             
          

             
          

            100,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          




              Variable Funding
            

              Note Series 2009-1 (6)
            


             
          

            Commercial paper rate + 200 bps or 1-Month LIBOR plus
            325 bps
          

             
          

            Dec. 2023
          

             
          

            Dec. 2012
          

             
          

             
          

            788,313
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,687
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,095
          

             
          



            Advance Receivable Backed Note Series 2010-1 (4)(7)
          

             
          

             3.59%
          

             
          

             
          

            Sep. 2023
          

             
          

            Feb. 2011
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            40,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            200,000
          

             
          



            Class A-1 Term Note (8) (9)
          

             
          

            Commercial paper rate + 350 bps
          

             
          

            Aug. 2043
          

             
          

            Aug. 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            340,185
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            721,000
          

             
          



            Class A-2 Variable Funding
            Note (8) (9)
          

             
          

            Commercial paper rate + 350 bps
          

             
          

            Aug. 2043
          

             
          

            Aug. 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            200,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Class B Term Note (8) (9)
          

             
          

            Commercial paper rate + 525 bps
          

             
          

            Aug. 2043
          

             
          

            Aug. 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,850
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            33,500
          

             
          



            Class C Term Note (8) (9)
          

             
          

            Commercial paper rate + 625 bps
          

             
          

            Aug. 2043
          

             
          

            Aug. 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,056
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,900
          

             
          



            Class D Term Note (8) (9)
          

             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 750 bps
          

             
          

            Aug. 2043
          

             
          

            Aug. 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,638
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            24,600
          

             
          



            Advance Receivable Backed Notes (10)
          

             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 400 bps
          

             
          

            Mar. 2020
          

             
          

            June 2011
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,315
          

             
          



            Advance Receivable Backed Notes (9) (11)
          

             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 200 bps
          

             
          

            Jan. 2014
          

             
          

            July 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            134,508
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            130,492
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            250,119
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,565,520
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,558,951
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,482,529
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Weighted average interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3.50
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            3.71
          

            %
          



 




            (1)
          

            The amortization date of our facilities is the date on
            which the revolving period ends under each advance
            facility note and repayment of the outstanding balance
            must begin if the note is not renewed or extended. The
            maturity date is the date on which all outstanding
            balances must be repaid. In two advance facilities,
            there are multiple notes outstanding. For each note,
            after the amortization date, all collections that
            represent the repayment of advances pledged to the
            facility must be applied to reduce the balance of the
            note outstanding, and any new advances are ineligible
            to be financed.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            Unused borrowing capacity is available to us provided
            that we have additional eligible collateral to pledge.
            Collateral may only be pledged to one facility.
          



 





              F-34
              








               
            




 




            (3)
          

            This note was issued in connection with the financing
            of advances acquired in connection with the acquisition
            of Litton on September 1, 2011.
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            These notes were issued under the Term Asset-Backed
            Securities Loan Facility program administered by the
            Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
          



             
          

             
          



            (5)
          

            In accordance with the terms of the note purchase
            agreement, the maximum funding obligation of this note
            increased from $88,000 to $100,000 in November 2011.
          



             
          

             
          



            (6)
          

            The interest rate for this note is determined using a
            commercial paper rate that reflects the borrowing costs
            of the lender plus a margin of 200 bps or 1-Month LIBOR
            plus 325 bps if the lender funds its lending other than
            through commercial paper. On December 9, 2011, the
            maximum borrowing under this note was increased to
            $800,000, and the amortization date was extended to
            December 2012. Beginning June 15, 2012, maximum
            borrowing capacity under this note will be reduced to
            the extent that the lender’s commitment under any
            other advance facilities of Ocwen or its affiliates
            exceeds $200,000.
          



             
          

             
          



            (7)
          

            This note entered into its amortization period in
            February 2011. The 2010-1 Indenture Supplement provides
            for scheduled amortization of $40,000 per quarter
            through January 2012.
          



             
          

             
          



            (8)
          

            These notes were issued in connection with the
            financing of advances acquired as part of the HomEq
            Acquisition.
          



             
          

             
          



            (9)
          

            In connection with the Fitch Ratings downgrade of OLS
            in December 2011, certain pooling and servicing
            agreements underlying the advances pledged to this
            facility experienced servicer termination events, and the lender waived the occurrence
            of any early amortization events or collateral
            disqualifications due to those servicer termination
            events.
          



             
          

             
          



            (10)
          

            On June 30, 2011, we terminated this facility and
            repaid the outstanding balance.
          



             
          

             
          



            (11)
          

            We renewed this facility on June 30, 2011 at which time
            the maximum borrowing capacity was reduced to $265,000
            from $500,000 and the amortization date was extended by
            two years to July 2013. In addition, the annual
            facility fee, which is payable in monthly installments,
            was reduced from 1.30% of the maximum borrowing
            capacity to 1.00%.
          





       
    

NOTE 14 SECURED BORROWINGS – OWED TO
      SECURITIZATION INVESTORS


       
    

      Secured borrowings – owed to securitization investors
      of $53,323 and $62,705 at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
      respectively, consist of certificates that represent
      beneficial ownership interests in four securitization trusts
      that we include in our consolidated financial statements, as
      more fully described in Note 1—Securitizations of
      Residential Mortgage Loans. The holders of these certificates
      have no recourse against the assets of Ocwen.
    

       
    

      The trusts consist principally of mortgage loans that are
      secured by first and second liens on one-to-four-family
      residential properties. Except for the residuals, the
      certificates generally pay interest based on 1-Month LIBOR
      plus a margin of from 8 to 250 basis points. Interest rates
      on the certificates are generally capped at the weighted
      average of the net mortgage rates of the mortgage loans in
      the respective loan pools.
    

       
    




              F-35
              








               
            




 


NOTE 15 LINES OF CREDIT AND OTHER SECURED
      BORROWINGS


       
    

      Lines of credit and other secured borrowings are comprised of
      the following:
    

       
    



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


Unused


 


 


Balance Outstanding


 




Borrowings


 


Collateral


 


 


Interest Rate


 


 


Maturity


 


 


Borrowing
            Capacity


 


 


December 31,
            2011


 


 


December 31,
            2010


             
          



            Servicing:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Senior secured term loan (1)
          

             
          

             (1)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 700 bps with a LIBOR floor of 2%
          

             
          

             
          

            June 2015
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            197,500
          

             
          



            Senior secured term loan (2)
          

             
          

             (2)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 550 bps with a LIBOR floor of 1.50%(2)
          

             
          

             
          

            Sept. 2016
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            546,250
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Fee reimbursement advance (3)
          

             
          

            Term note
          

             
          

             
          

            Zero coupon
          

             
          

             
          

            March 2014
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            48,000
          

             
          



            Term note (4)
          

             
          

            Advances
          

             
          

             
          

            1-Month LIBOR + 350 basis points
          

             
          

             
          

            March 2014
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,600
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            546,250
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            251,100
          

             
          



            Corporate Items and Other
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Securities sold under an agreement to repurchase (5)
          

             
          

            Ocwen Real Estate Asset Liquidating Trust 2007-1 Notes
          

             
          

             
          

             (5)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             (5)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,610
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,774
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            550,860
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            258,874
          

             
          



            Discount (1)(2)(3)
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (10,491
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (12,801
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            540,369
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            246,073
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Weighted average interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6.96
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            8.90
          

            %
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            On June 9, 2011, we terminated this facility and repaid
            the outstanding balance. We amortized the remaining
            balance of the original issue discount and the
            remaining unamortized prepaid debt issuance costs
            through this date.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            On September 1, 2011, we entered into a new senior
            secured term loan facility agreement and borrowed
            $575,000 that was primarily used to fund a portion of
            the Litton Acquisition. The loan was issued with an
            original issue discount of $11,500 that we are
            amortizing over the term of the loan. Borrowings bear
            interest, at the election of Ocwen, at a rate per annum
            equal to either (a) the base rate [the greatest of (i)
            the prime rate of Barclays Bank PLC in effect on such
            day, (ii) the federal funds effective rate in effect on
            such day plus 0.50% and (iii) the one-month Eurodollar
            rate (1-Month LIBOR)], plus a margin of 4.50% and a
            base rate floor of 2.50% or (b) 1-Month LIBOR, plus a
            margin of 5.50% with a 1-Month LIBOR floor of 1.50%. We
            are required to repay the principal amount of the loan
            in consecutive quarterly installments of $14,375 per
            quarter commencing September 30, 2011 through June 30,
            2016, with the balance becoming due on September 1,
            2016. The loan is secured by a first priority security
            interest in substantially all of the tangible and
            intangible assets of Ocwen.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            During September 2011, we repaid this facility in full
            and recognized a gain of $2,405 on the extinguishment
            of debt, including the write off of the unamortized
            balances of the discount and related deferred income.
            We were amortizing the discount to interest expense
            over the five-year term of the advance. Under the
            agreement that governed this advance, a portion of the
            annual payment was forgiven if the annual net written
            premium by the lender for insurance on serviced loans
            and real estate exceeded $100,000. In the first quarter
            of 2011, the lender forgave $1,246 of the outstanding
            debt balance based on the net written premium for the
            contract year ended March 31, 2011, which we also
            recognized as a gain on extinguishment debt. These
            gains are reported in Other income (expense).
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            This note that was issued by OSAF was secured by
            advances on loans serviced for others, similar to match
            funded advances and liabilities. The lender pledged its
            interest in this note as collateral against a $7,000
            term note receivable from the lender that we held. Both
            this note and the term note receivable were fully
            repaid in September 2011 as disclosed in Note 12.
          



             
          

             
          



            (5)
          

            In August 2010, we obtained financing under a
            repurchase agreement for the Class A-2 and A-3 notes
            issued by Ocwen Real Estate Asset Liquidating Trust
            2007-1 which have a current face value of $29,351. This
            agreement has no stated credit limit and lending is
            determined for each transaction based on the
            acceptability of the securities presented as
            collateral. Borrowings mature and are renewed monthly.
            The borrowings secured by the Class A-2 notes bear
            interest at 1-Month LIBOR + 200 basis points and
            borrowings secured by the Class A-3 notes bear interest
            at 1-Month LIBOR + 300 basis points.
          



       
    




              F-36
              








               
            




       
    

NOTE 16 DEBT SECURITIES


       
    

      Debt securities consisted of the following at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            3.25% Contingent Convertible Senior Unsecured Notes due
            August 1, 2024
          

             
          

            $
          

            56,435
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            56,435
          

             
          



            10.875% Capital Securities due August 1, 2027
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,119
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            82,554
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            82,554
          

             
          



       
    

3.25% Convertible Notes. In July 2004, OCN issued
      $175,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.25% Convertible
      Notes due August 1, 2024. The Convertible Notes are senior
      general unsecured obligations not guaranteed by any of our
      subsidiaries and bear interest at the rate of 3.25% per year.
      We amortized the debt discount over the period from the date
      of issuance to August 1, 2009, the first date at which
      holders could require us to repurchase their notes.
    

       
    

      Interest expense on the Convertible Notes for the year ended
      December 31, 2009 includes amortization of debt discount of
      $1,735. We recognized interest on the debt at an effective
      annual rate of 8.25% from the date of issuance to August 1,
      2009. Since August 1, 2009, the effective interest rate on
      the debt is the coupon rate of 3.25%.
    

       
    

      Holders may convert all or a portion of their notes into
      shares of our common stock under the following circumstances:
      (1) at any time during any calendar quarter (and only during
      such calendar quarter) commencing after December 31, 2004, if
      the closing sale price of our common stock for at least 20
      consecutive trading days in a period of 30 consecutive
      trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding
      calendar quarter is greater than 125% of the conversion price
      per share of common stock on such last day; (2) subject to
      certain exceptions, during the five business day period after
      any five-consecutive-trading-day period in which the trading
      price per $1,000 (in dollars) principal amount of the notes
      for each day of the five-consecutive-trading-day period was
      less than 98% of the product of the closing sale price of our
      common stock and the number of shares issuable upon
      conversion of $1,000 (in dollars) principal amount of the
      notes; (3) if the notes have been called for redemption; or
      (4) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions.
    

       
    

      The conversion rate is 82.1693 shares of our common stock per
      $1,000 (in dollars) principal amount of the notes, subject to
      adjustment. Events that may cause the conversion rate to be
      adjusted primarily relate to cash dividends or other
      distributions to holders of our common stock. Upon
      conversion, we may, at our option, choose to deliver, in lieu
      of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and common
      stock. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the if-converted value
      of the Convertible Notes was $67,147 and $44,239,
      respectively.
    

       
    

      On June 26, 2009, we provided notice to holders of the
      Convertible Notes of their right to request that we
      repurchase all or a portion of their notes for cash on August
      3, 2009 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal
      amount of the notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid
      interest, if any. There were no material redemptions on
      August 3, 2009. Holders that did not choose to exercise their
      repurchase right on August 3, 2009 will receive the same
      right to request that we repurchase all or a portion of their
      notes for cash on August 1, 2014 and August 1, 2019. A
      similar right is also available to holders of the Convertible
      Notes in the event of a “fundamental change.” A
      “fundamental change” is a change of control or a
      termination of trading in our common stock.
    

       
    

      Beginning August 1, 2009, we may redeem all or a portion of
      the notes for cash for a price equal to 100% of the principal
      amount of the notes to be redeemed plus accrued and unpaid
      interest, if any.
    

       
    

10.875% Capital Securities. In August 1997, Ocwen
      Capital Trust (OCT) issued $125,000 of 10.875% Capital
      Securities (the Capital Securities). OCT invested the
      proceeds from issuance of the Capital Securities in 10.875%
      Junior Subordinated Debentures issued by OCN. The Junior
      Subordinated Debentures, which represent the sole assets of
      OCT, will mature on August 1, 2027. For financial reporting
      purposes, we treat OCT as a subsidiary and, accordingly, the
      accounts of OCT are included in our consolidated financial
      statements. We consolidate OCT because we own all of the
      beneficial ownership interests represented by common
      securities that were issued by OCT (Common Securities) and
      have repurchased 79% of the Capital Securities that were
      originally issued. We eliminate intercompany balances and
      transactions with OCT, including the balance of Junior
      Subordinated Debentures outstanding, in our consolidated
      financial statements.
    

       
    




              F-37
              








               
            




       
    

      Holders of the Capital Securities are entitled to receive
      cumulative cash distributions accruing from the date of
      original issuance and payable semiannually in arrears on
      February 1 and August 1 of each year at an annual rate of
      10.875% of the liquidation amount of $1,000 (in dollars) per
      Capital Security. OCN guarantees payment of distributions out
      of moneys held by OCT and payments on liquidation of OCT or
      the redemption of Capital Securities to the extent OCT has
      funds available. If OCN does not make principal or interest
      payments on the Junior Subordinated Debentures, OCT will not
      have sufficient funds to make distributions on the Capital
      Securities in which event the guarantee shall not apply to
      such distributions until OCT has sufficient funds available.
      Accumulated distributions payable on the Capital Securities
      amounted to $1,184 at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and are
      included in Other liabilities.
    

       
    

      We have the right to defer payment of interest on the Junior
      Subordinated Debentures at any time or from time to time for
      a period not exceeding 10 consecutive semiannual periods with
      respect to each deferral period provided that no extension
      period may extend beyond the stated maturity of the Junior
      Subordinated Debentures. Upon the termination of any such
      extension period and the payment of all amounts then due on
      any interest payment date, we may elect to begin a new
      extension period. Accordingly, there could be multiple
      extension periods of varying lengths throughout the term of
      the Junior Subordinated Debentures. If we defer interest
      payments on the Junior Subordinated Debentures, distributions
      on the Capital Securities will also be deferred, and we may
      not, nor may any of our subsidiaries, (i) declare or pay any
      dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire,
      or make a liquidation payment with respect to, their capital
      stock or (ii) make any payment of principal, interest or
      premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt
      securities that rank pari passu with or junior to the Junior
      Subordinated Debentures. During an extension period, interest
      on the Junior Subordinated Debentures will continue to accrue
      at the rate of 10.875% per annum, compounded semiannually.
    

       
    

      We may redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures before
      maturity at our option subject to the receipt of any
      necessary prior regulatory approval, in whole or in part at
      the redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the
      principal amount) set forth below, plus accrued interest
      thereon, if redeemed during the twelve-month period beginning
      on August 1 of the years indicated below:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Percentages





            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            103.263
          

            %
          



            2012
          

             
          

             
          

            102.719
          

             
          



            2013
          

             
          

             
          

            102.175
          

             
          



            2014
          

             
          

             
          

            101.631
          

             
          



            2015
          

             
          

             
          

            101.088
          

             
          



            2016
          

             
          

             
          

            100.544
          

             
          



            2017 to maturity
          

             
          

             
          

            100.000
          

             
          



       
    

      We may also redeem the Junior Subordinated Debentures at any
      time upon the occurrence and continuation of a special event
      (defined as a tax event, regulatory capital event or an
      investment company event) at 100%. The Capital Securities are
      subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the Junior
      Subordinated Debentures in an amount equal to the amount of
      the related Junior Subordinated Debentures maturing or being
      redeemed and at a redemption price equal to the redemption
      price of the Junior Subordinated Debentures, plus accumulated
      and unpaid distributions thereon to the date of redemption.
    

       
    

NOTE 17 OTHER LIABILITIES


       
    

      Other liabilities were comprised of the following at December
      31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Accrued expenses (1)(2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            53,516
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            54,122
          

             
          



            Payable to servicing and subservicing investors (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            28,824
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,443
          

             
          



            Checks held for escheat (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            24,687
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            18,087
          

             
          



            Derivatives, at fair value (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            20,276
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            15,670
          

             
          



            Servicing liabilities (1)(5)
          

             
          

             
          

            9,662
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,415
          

             
          



            Liability for selected tax items (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            4,524
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,913
          

             
          



            Payable to Altisource (7)
          

             
          

             
          

            4,274
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,877
          

             
          



            Accrued interest payable
          

             
          

             
          

            4,140
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,830
          

             
          



            Deferred income (8)
          

             
          

             
          

            660
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,394
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            8,086
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,980
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            158,649
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            142,731
          

             
          



       
    




              F-38
              








               
            




       
    



            (1)
          

            We assumed $25,471 of accrued expenses in connection
            with the Litton Acquisition, including accruals for
            employee salaries, benefits and other related
            compensation costs, legal fees and litigation reserves.
            At December 31, 2011, accrued expenses related to
            Litton were $16,236 including $5,163 related to
            employee termination benefits as disclosed in
            Note 2. We also assumed servicing liabilities with
            a fair value of $8,972 and an obligation for checks
            held for escheat of $6,145.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            The balance at December 31, 2011 and 2010 includes
            $5,550 and $24,366, respectively, of litigation
            reserves. During 2011, we paid the settlement of one
            legal proceeding and the judgment in another case.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            The balance represents amounts due to investors in
            connection with loans we service under servicing and
            subservicing agreements.
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            The balances represent the fair values of interest rate
            swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts. See
            Note 19 for additional information regarding these
            derivatives.
          



             
          

             
          



            (5)
          

            We recognize a servicing liability for those agreements
            that are not expected to compensate us adequately for
            performing the servicing. During 2011, 2010 and 2009,
            amortization of servicing liabilities exceeded the
            amount of charges we recognized to increase servicing
            liability obligations by $2,725, $172 and $361,
            respectively. Amortization of mortgage servicing rights
            is reported net of this amount in the Consolidated
            Statement of Operations.
          



             
          

             
          



            (6)
          

            See Note 23 for information on the liability for
            selected tax items.
          



             
          

             
          



            (7)
          

            See Note 28 for additional information regarding
            our relationship with Altisource and transactions
            between Ocwen and Altisource.
          



             
          

             
          



            (8)
          

            The balance at December 31, 2010 included $9,508 of
            deferred income associated with the fee reimbursement
            advance facility that was being amortized to earnings
            over the five-year life of the related debt as a
            reduction of interest expense. The unamortized balance
            was written off upon the repayment of the related debt
            during 2011 and included in the gain on extinguishment
            of debt. See Note 15 for additional information on
            the fee reimbursement advance facility.
          



       
    

NOTE 18 EQUITY


       
    

Common Stock


       
    

      On May 9, 2000, we announced that our Board of Directors
      authorized the repurchase of up to 6,000,000 of our issued
      and outstanding shares of common stock. To date, we have
      repurchased 431,100 shares under this plan (all in 2004). We
      may still purchase a total of 5,568,900 shares under this
      plan.
    

       
    

      In a private placement transaction that closed on April 3,
      2009, OCN sold 5,471,500 shares of its common stock for a
      price of $11.00 per share. We realized $60,165 in proceeds
      from this issuance.
    

       
    

      On April 3, 2009, OCN repurchased from William C. Erbey, its
      Chairman of the Board and then Chief Executive Officer,
      1,000,000 shares of its common stock at a per-share price of
      $11.00. We used a portion of the proceeds received from the
      above-described private placement transaction to acquire the
      shares from Mr. Erbey.
    

       
    

      On August 18, 2009, OCN completed the public offering of
      32,200,000 shares of common stock at a per share price of
      $9.00, including 4,200,000 shares of common stock purchased
      by the underwriters pursuant to the full exercise of the
      over-allotment option granted under the underwriting
      agreement. We received net proceeds of $274,964 from the
      offering after deducting underwriting fees and other
      incremental costs directly related to the offering.
    

       
    

      On November 9, 2011, OCN completed the public offering of
      28,750,000 shares of common stock at a per share price of
      $13.00, including 3,750,000 shares of common stock purchased
      by the underwriters pursuant to the full exercise of the
      over-allotment option granted under the underwriting
      agreement. We received net proceeds of $354,445 from the
      offering after deducting underwriting fees and other
      incremental costs directly related to the offering.
    

       
    

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss


       
    

      The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss, net
      of income taxes, were as follows at December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Unrealized losses on cash flow hedges
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,760
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            9,239
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            136
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            153
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,896
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            9,392
          

             
          



       
    




              F-39
              








               
            




       
    

NOTE 19 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS


       
    

      Because our current derivative agreements are not
      exchange-traded, we are exposed to credit loss in the event
      of nonperformance by the counterparty to the agreements. We
      control this risk through credit monitoring procedures
      including financial analysis, dollar limits and other
      monitoring procedures. The notional amount of our contracts
      does not represent our exposure to credit loss.
    

       
    

        Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Management


       
    

      In August and October 2011, we entered into foreign exchange
      forward contracts with a notional amount of $59,400 to hedge
      against the effect of changes in the value of the India Rupee
      (INR) on amounts payable to our India subsidiary, OFSPL,
      through February 2013. These contracts replaced those that
      expired in April 2011. We did not designate the foreign
      exchange contracts as hedges.
    

       
    

      Our operations in Uruguay also expose us to foreign currency
      exchange rate risk, but we consider this risk to be
      insignificant.
    

       
    

        Interest Rate Management


       
    

      In our Servicing segment, during 2010, we entered into three
      interest rate swaps in order to hedge against the effects of
      changes in interest rates on our borrowings under our advance
      funding facilities. In 2011, we entered into an additional
      four interest rate swaps and one interest rate cap. The cap
      was not designated as a hedge.
    

       
    

      The following summarizes our use of swaps at December 31,
      2011 to hedge the effects of changes in the interest rate
      environment on borrowings under our advance funding
      facilities:
    

       
    




Purpose




Date
              Opened




Effective
              Date (1)




Maturity



 



We Pay



 



We
              Receive



 



Notional
              Amount



 


 



Fair
              Value



             
          



            Not designated as hedges:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Hedge the effects of a change in 1-Month LIBOR on
            borrowing under a $265,000 advance funding facility (2)
          

            April 2010
          

            July 2010
          

            July 2013
          

             
          

             
          

            2.0590%
          

             
          

            1-Month
            LIBOR
          

             
          

            $
          

            250,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (6,329
          

            )
          



            Designated as hedges:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Hedge the effects of a change in the lender’s
            commercial paper rate and 1-Month LIBOR on borrowing
            under a $582,729 advance facility (3)
          


              May 2010 and
            

              June 2010
            


            September 2010
          

            August 2013
          

             
          

            1.5750%
            and 1.5275%
          

             
          

            1-Month
            LIBOR
          

             
          

             
          

            439,955
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,368
          

            )
          



            Hedge the effects of changes in the lenders’
            commercial paper rate on commercial paper-based advance
            funding facilities
          

            October 2011
          

            June 2013
          

            January 2015
          

             
          

             
          

            0.9275%
          

             
          

            1-Month
            LIBOR
          

             
          

             
          

            100,946
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (741
          

            )
          



            Hedge the effects of changes in 1-Month LIBOR on
            LIBOR-based advance funding facilities
          

            October 2011
          

            June 2013
          

            January 2015
          

             
          

             
          

            0.9780%
          

             
          

            1-Month
            LIBOR
          

             
          

             
          

            100,946
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (759
          

            )
          



            Hedge the effects of changes in the lenders’
            commercial paper rate on commercial paper-based advance
            funding facilities (4)
          

            December 2011
          

            February 2012
          

            January 2015
          

             
          

            0.7000%
            and
            0.6825%
          

             
          

            1-Month
            LIBOR
          

             
          

             
          

            501,838
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (294
          

            )
          



            Total designated as hedges
          

             
          

             
          

            1,143,685
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,162
          

            )
          



            Total
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,393,685
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (14,491
          

            )
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The effective date of the swap is the date from which
            monthly settlements begin to be computed.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            We originally designated this swap as a cash flow
            hedge; however, the hedging relationship failed to meet
            the effectiveness criterion both for the third quarter
            of 2011 and on a prospective basis beyond the third
            quarter because declines in advances pledged as
            collateral to the hedged debt resulted in lower than
            anticipated borrowings. As a result, we discontinued
            hedge accounting for this hedging relationship
            effective July 1, 2011 and began amortizing to earnings
            the $6,179 of deferred losses in accumulated other
            comprehensive income. Amortization will continue until
            the related advance facility matures in July 2013. The
            balance outstanding under the advance facility at
            December 31, 2011 was $130,492.
          



       
    




              F-40
              








               
            




       
    



            (3)
          

            Projected net interest settlements on the swaps for the
            next twelve months total approximately $4,263 of
            payments to the counterparty. The balance outstanding
            under the advance facility at December 31, 2011 was
            $382,729.
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            Projected net settlements on the swap for the next
            twelve months total approximately $869 of payments to
            the counterparties.
          



       
    

      The following table summarizes the use of derivatives during
      2011:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Interest
              Rate Cap



 


 



Foreign
              Exchange
              Forwards



 


 



Interest
              Rate Swaps



             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Notional balance at December 31, 2010
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            6,400
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            846,888
          

             
          



            Additions
          

             
          

             
          

            1,600,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            59,400
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            703,730
          

             
          



            Maturities
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (19,600
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (156,933
          

            )
          



            Terminations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Notional balance at December 31, 2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,600,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            46,200
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,393,685
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Fair value of derivative assets (liabilities) at (1):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            December 31, 2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,600
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (5,785
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (14,491
          

            )
          



            December 31, 2010
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            319
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15.670
          

            )
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Maturity
          

             
          

            May 2014
          

             
          

             
          

            February
            2012 to
            February
            2013
          

             
          

             
          

            July 2013 to January 2015
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Derivatives are reported at fair value in Receivables,
            Other assets or in Other liabilities.
          



       
    

      Other income (expense), net, includes the following related
      to derivative financial instruments for the years ended
      December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Net realized and unrealized gains (losses) on
            derivative financial instruments that are not
            designated as hedges (1)
          

             
          

            $
          

            (4,488
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            17
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            588
          

             
          



            Unrealized losses arising from ineffectiveness of
            interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,393
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (150
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Amortization of deferred losses included in accumulated
            other comprehensive income related to a discontinued
            hedging relationship
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,545
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (7,426
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            (133
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            588
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Includes $1,368 of net unrealized gains during 2011
            relating to the swap for which we discontinued hedge
            accounting effective July 1, 2011.
          



       
    

      Included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss at December
      31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, were $12,114
      and $14,435 of deferred unrealized losses, before taxes of
      $4,354 and $5,196, respectively, on the interest rate swaps
      that we designated as cash flow hedges.
    

       
    




              F-41
              








               
            




       
    

NOTE 20 SERVICING AND SUBSERVICING FEES


       
    

      The following table presents the components of servicing and
      subservicing fees for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Loan servicing and subservicing fees
          

             
          

            $
          

            341,438
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            226,284
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            175,691
          

             
          



            Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) fees
          

             
          

             
          

            42,025
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,363
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,581
          

             
          



            Late charges
          

             
          

             
          

            38,557
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,760
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            28,292
          

             
          



            Loan collection fees
          

             
          

             
          

            11,223
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,958
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,569
          

             
          



            Custodial accounts (float earnings) (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            2,105
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,843
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,803
          

             
          



            Receivables management and recovery fees (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            29,207
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            23,527
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            18,491
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            13,324
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            458,875
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            321,699
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            264,467
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            For 2010 and 2009, float earnings included $901 and
            $4,745, respectively, of interest income from our
            investment in auction rate securities. We liquidated
            our remaining investment in auction rate securities in
            2010, and therefore, we did not recognize any interest
            income from these securities in 2011.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            These fees were earned by the Financial Services
            segment which we distributed as part of the Separation.
            See Note 27 for additional information regarding
            this former business segment.
          



       
    

NOTE 21 INTEREST INCOME


       
    

      The following table presents the components of interest
      income for each category of our interest-earning assets for
      the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Interest earning cash and short-term investments
          

             
          

            $
          

            756
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,190
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,543
          

             
          



            Trading securities - Subordinates and residuals
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,600
          

             
          



            Loans held for resale
          

             
          

             
          

            2,291
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,398
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,643
          

             
          



            Loans, net - restricted for securitization investors
          

             
          

             
          

            5,829
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6,271
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            8,876
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            10,859
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            8,786
          

             
          



       
    

NOTE 22 INTEREST EXPENSE


       
    

      The following table presents the components of interest
      expense for each category of our interest-bearing liabilities
      for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Match funded liabilities
          

             
          

            $
          

            93,051
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            61,656
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            46,068
          

             
          



            Secured borrowings – owed to securitization
            investors
          

             
          

             
          

            670
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            632
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Lines of credit and other secured borrowings
          

             
          

             
          

            32,985
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            17,553
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,161
          

             
          



            Debt securities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Convertible Notes
          

             
          

             
          

            1,834
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,834
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,898
          

             
          



            Capital Securities
          

             
          

             
          

            2,840
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,954
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,728
          

             
          



            Investment line
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            376
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,618
          

             
          



            Escrow deposits
          

             
          

             
          

            1,390
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            918
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            481
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            132,770
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            85,923
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            62,954
          

             
          



       
    

NOTE 23 INCOME TAXES


       
    

      For income tax purposes, the domestic and foreign components
      of income from continuing operations before taxes were as
      follows for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Domestic
          

             
          

            $
          

            118,708
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            33,394
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            89,847
          

             
          



            Foreign
          

             
          

             
          

            4,287
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,760
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,414
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

            $
          

            122,995
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            39,154
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            93,261
          

             
          



       
    




              F-42
              








               
            




       
    

      The components of income tax expense (benefit) on continuing
      operations were as follows for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Current:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Federal
          

             
          

            $
          

            13,894
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            8,836
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            51,341
          

             
          



            State
          

             
          

             
          

            (195
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,049
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            300
          

             
          



            Foreign
          

             
          

             
          

            1,079
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,033
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            933
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            14,778
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,918
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            52,574
          

             
          



            Deferred:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Federal
          

             
          

             
          

            29,440
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,953
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            40,067
          

             
          



            State
          

             
          

             
          

            368
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (145
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            4,564
          

             
          



            Foreign
          

             
          

             
          

            86
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            725
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,095
          

            )
          



            Provision for valuation allowance on deferred tax
            assets
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            29,894
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,373
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            43,536
          

             
          



            Total
          

             
          

            $
          

            44,672
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,545
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            96,110
          

             
          



       
    

      Income tax expense differs from the amounts computed by
      applying the U.S. Federal corporate income tax rate of 35% as
      follows for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Expected income tax expense at statutory rate
          

             
          

            $
          

            43,049
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            13,704
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            32,641
          

             
          



            Differences between expected and actual income tax
            expense:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Indefinite deferral on earnings of non-U.S. affiliates
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,006
          

            )
          



            State tax, after Federal tax benefit
          

             
          

             
          

            254
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            610
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,274
          

             
          



            Low-income housing tax credits
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (23
          

            )
          



            Tax effect of Altisource Separation
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            749
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            48,577
          

             
          



            Provision for (reversal of) liability for selected tax
            items
          

             
          

             
          

            1,611
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,126
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            11,196
          

             
          



            Permanent differences
          

             
          

             
          

            61
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            878
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Foreign tax differential
          

             
          

             
          

            (716
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (197
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (161
          

            )
          



            Provision-to-return and other
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (580
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Stock-based compensation tax expense
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (510
          

            )
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            413
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (493
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            122
          

             
          



            Actual income tax expense
          

             
          

            $
          

            44,672
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,545
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            96,110
          

             
          



       
    




              F-43
              








               
            




       
    

      Net deferred tax assets were comprised of the following at
      December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Deferred tax assets:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Mortgage servicing rights amortization
          

             
          

            $
          

            32,654
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            41,532
          

             
          



            Net operating loss carryforward
          

             
          

             
          

            18,078
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,087
          

             
          



            Net unrealized gains and losses on securities
          

             
          

             
          

            11,828
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            11,397
          

             
          



            Partnership losses
          

             
          

             
          

            9,960
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,007
          

             
          



            Bad debt and allowance for loan losses
          

             
          

             
          

            8,020
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,716
          

             
          



            Accrued other liabilities
          

             
          

             
          

            5,122
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,901
          

             
          



            Interest rate swaps
          

             
          

             
          

            4,371
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,196
          

             
          



            Tax residuals and deferred income on tax residuals
          

             
          

             
          

            3,941
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,847
          

             
          



            State taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,456
          

             
          



            Stock-based compensation expense
          

             
          

             
          

            2,874
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,460
          

             
          



            Accrued incentive compensation
          

             
          

             
          

            2,755
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,610
          

             
          



            Foreign deferred assets
          

             
          

             
          

            2,512
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,598
          

             
          



            Accrued lease termination costs
          

             
          

             
          

            1,910
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,728
          

             
          



            Intangible asset amortization
          

             
          

             
          

            1,641
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,276
          

             
          



            Valuation allowance on real estate
          

             
          

             
          

            884
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,258
          

             
          



            Deferred income or loss on servicing advance
            receivables
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,745
          

             
          



            Capital losses
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,455
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            8,608
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,609
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            115,158
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            138,878
          

             
          



            Deferred tax liabilities:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Deferred income or loss on servicing advance
            receivables
          

             
          

             
          

            7,030
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Other
          

             
          

             
          

            160
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            162
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,190
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            162
          

             
          



            Net deferred tax assets
          

             
          

            $
          

            107,968
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            138,716
          

             
          



       
    

      We conduct periodic evaluations of positive and negative
      evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that
      the deferred tax asset can be realized in future periods.
      Among the factors considered in this evaluation are estimates
      of future taxable income, future reversals of temporary
      differences, tax character and the impact of tax planning
      strategies that may be implemented, if warranted. As a result
      of this evaluation, we concluded that no valuation allowance
      was necessary at December 31, 2011 and 2010.
    

       
    

      We recognized total interest and penalties of $1,257, $182
      and $278 in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At December
      31, 2011 and 2010, accruals for interest and penalties were
      $1,636 and $379, respectively. As of December 31, 2011 and
      2010, we had a total liability for selected tax items of
      $4,524 and $2,913, respectively, all of which if recognized
      would affect the effective tax rate.
    

       
    

      Our major jurisdiction tax years that remain subject to
      examination are our U.S. federal tax return for the years
      ended December 31, 2008 through the present and our India
      corporate tax returns for the years ended March 31, 2004
      through the present. Our U.S. federal tax return for the
      years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009 are currently under
      examination. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending
      amount of the liability for selected tax items is as follows
      for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



             
          



            Balance at January 1
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,913
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            15,326
          

             
          



            Additions based on tax positions related to current
            year
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            683
          

             
          



            Additions for tax positions of prior years
          

             
          

             
          

            1,817
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            105
          

             
          



            Reductions for tax positions of prior years
          

             
          

             
          

            (206
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,884
          

            )
          



            Lapses in statutes of limitation
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,317
          

            )
          



            Balance at December 31
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,524
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,913
          

             
          



       
    

      At December 31, 2011, we a had net operating loss
      carryforward tax benefit of $18,078 that related to realized
      built-in losses from the acquisition of Ocwen Asset
      Investment Corporation in 1999.  Utilization of these
      carryforwards is subject to an annual IRC section 382
      limitation of $5,700. These carryforwards will expire
      beginning 2019 through 2024. We have no remaining capital
      loss carryforwards or tax credit carryforwards related to
      low-income housing tax credits.
    

       
    




              F-44
              








               
            




       
    

NOTE 24 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS


       
    

      On December 3, 2009, we finalized and consummated the
      transaction to dispose of our investment in Bankhaus Oswald
      Kruber GmbH & Co. KG (BOK), a German banking entity, for
      proceeds of $11,443 and recognized a pre-tax gain of $4,034
      on the disposition. Management concluded that BOK met and
      continued to meet the definition of a discontinued operation
      through the date of disposition. Accordingly, the results of
      BOK are classified as discontinued in the accompanying
      consolidated financial statements. For segment reporting
      purposes, the operations of BOK are included in Corporate
      Items and Other. Results of discontinued operations,
      including both the operations of BOK and the gain on the
      disposition of BOK, for the years ended December 31 are as
      follows:
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Revenue
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            78
          

             
          



            Operating expenses
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            298
          

             
          



            Loss from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (220
          

            )
          



            Other income, net (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,709
          

             
          



            Income before income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,489
          

             
          



            Income tax expense (benefit) (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,383
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,368
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,383
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,121
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Other income for 2009 includes the gain of $4,034 gain
            that we recognized on the disposition of our investment
            in BOK.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            We recorded an income tax benefit of $4,383 in 2010 to
            recognize the effect of additional tax losses.
          



       
    

NOTE 25 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE


       
    

      Basic EPS excludes common stock equivalents and is calculated
      by dividing net income attributable to OCN by the weighted
      average number of common shares outstanding during the year.
      We calculate diluted EPS by dividing net income attributable
      to OCN, as adjusted to add back interest expense net of
      income tax on the Convertible Notes, by the weighted average
      number of common shares outstanding including the potential
      dilutive common shares related to outstanding stock options,
      restricted stock awards and the Convertible Notes. The
      following is a reconciliation of the calculation of basic EPS
      to diluted EPS for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



             
          



            Basic EPS:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,331
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,984
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            297
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Weighted average shares of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            104,507,055
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100,273,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic EPS
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.75
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.38
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Diluted EPS:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,331
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            37,984
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            297
          

             
          



            Interest expense on Convertible Notes, net of income
            tax (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            1,187
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,122
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Adjusted net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            79,518
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            39,106
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            297
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Weighted average shares of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            104,507,055
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            100,273,121
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          



            Effect of dilutive elements:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Convertible Notes (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            4,637,224
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,637,224
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Stock options (2) (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            2,711,682
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,571,282
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Common stock awards
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,388
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Dilutive weighted average shares of common stock
          

             
          

             
          

            111,855,961
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            107,483,015
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            78,252,000
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Diluted EPS
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.71
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.36
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Stock options excluded from the computation of diluted
            EPS:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Anti-dilutive (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            27,031
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            557,080
          

             
          



            Market-based (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            468,750
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,615,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,788,750
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The effect of our Convertible Notes on diluted EPS is
            computed using the if-converted method. Interest
            expense and related amortization costs applicable to
            the Convertible Notes, net of income tax, are added
            back to net income. Conversion of the Convertible Notes
            into shares of common stock has not been assumed for
            purposes of computing diluted EPS for the 2009 because
            the effect would be anti-dilutive. The effect is
            anti-dilutive whenever interest expense on the
            Convertible Notes, net of income tax, per common share
            obtainable on conversion exceeds basic EPS.
          



       
    




              F-45
              








               
            




       
    



            (2)
          

            These stock options were anti-dilutive because their
            exercise price was greater than the average market
            price of our stock.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            Shares that are issuable upon the achievement of
            certain performance criteria related to OCN’s
            stock price and an annualized rate of return to
            investors. See Note 26 for additional information
            regarding these market-condition options.
          



       
    

NOTE 26 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT PLANS


       
    

      We maintain a defined contribution plan to provide post
      retirement benefits to our eligible employees. We also
      maintain additional compensation plans for certain employees.
      We designed these plans to facilitate a pay-for-performance
      policy, further align the interests of our officers and key
      employees with the interests of our shareholders and assist
      in attracting and retaining employees vital to our long-term
      success. These plans are summarized below.
    

       
    

        Retirement Plan


       
    

      We maintain a defined contribution 401(k) plan. We match 50%
      of each employee’s contributions, limited to 2% of the
      employee’s compensation. Our contributions to the
      401(k) plan were $238, $233 and $403 for the years ended
      December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
    

       
    

        Annual Incentive Plan


       
    

      The Ocwen Financial Corporation Amended 1998 Annual Incentive
      Plan (the AIP) is our primary incentive compensation plan for
      executives and other key employees. Under the terms of the
      AIP, participants can earn cash and equity-based awards as
      determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of
      Directors. The awards are generally based on objective
      performance criteria established by the Committee which
      includes corporate profitability, growth in our core
      businesses, meeting budget objectives and achieving cost
      savings through Six Sigma initiatives. The Committee may at
      its discretion adjust performance measurements to reflect
      significant unforeseen events. In 2007, the stockholders
      approved the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2007 Equity
      Plan) to replace the 1991 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan.
      The 2007 Equity Plan authorizes the grant of stock options,
      restricted stock or other equity-based awards to employees.
      At December 31, 2011, there were 11,073,599 shares of common
      stock remaining available for future issuance under the 2007
      Equity Plan.
    

       
    

      For the past five years we have awarded annual incentive
      compensation entirely in cash. However, in July 2008,
      November 2009 and October 2011, we awarded stock options to
      members of senior management under the 2007 Equity Plan.
      These awards had the following characteristics in common:
    

       
    




Type of Award



 



Percent of
              Options
              Awarded



 


 



Vesting Period





            Service Condition:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Time-Based
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

            %
          

             
          

            Ratably over four years (¼ on each of the four
            anniversaries of the grant date)
          



            Market Condition:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Performance-Based
          

             
          

             
          

            50
          

             
          

             
          

            Over three years beginning with ¼ vesting on the
            date that the stock price has at least doubled over the
            exercise price and the compounded annual gain over the
            exercise price is at least 20% and then ratably over
            three years (¼ on the next three anniversaries of
            the achievement of the market condition)
          



            Extraordinary Performance-Based
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

             
          

             
          

            Over three years beginning with ¼ vesting on the
            date that the stock price has at least tripled over the
            exercise price and the compounded annual gain over the
            exercise price is at least 25% and then ratably over
            three years (¼ on the next three anniversaries of
            the achievement of the market condition)
          



            Total award
          

             
          

             
          

            100
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          



       
    

      Stock options awarded prior to 2008 generally vest ratably
      over a five–year period including the award year. The
      contractual term of all options granted is ten years from the
      grant date, except where employment terminates by reason of
      retirement, in which case the time-based options will
      terminate no later than three years after such retirement or
      the end of the option term, whichever is earlier. The terms
      of the market-based options do not include a retirement
      provision.
    

       
    




              F-46
              








               
            




       
    

      Stock option activity for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2010



 


 



2009



 




 


 



Number of


Options



 


 



Weighted


Average


Exercise


Price



 


 



Number of


Options



 


 



Weighted


Average


Exercise


Price



 


 



Number of


Options



 


 



Weighted


Average


Exercise


Price



             
          



            Outstanding at beginning of year
          

             
          

             
          

            8,084,953
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            5.03
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,278,581
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4.97
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,428,952
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            8.14
          

             
          



            Granted
          

             
          

             
          

            545,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12.83
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            415,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8.68
          

             
          



            Exercised (1) (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            (735,225
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            6.01
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (774,345
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            4.19
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (526,749
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            6.37
          

             
          



            Forfeited
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (419,283
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            5.21
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (38,622
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            12.12
          

             
          



            Outstanding at end of year (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            7,894,728
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.48
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,084,953
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.03
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,278,581
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.97
          

             
          



            Exercisable at end of year (3) (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            4,947,228
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.91
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,122,453
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.13
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,486,405
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.98
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised,
            which is defined as the amount by which the market
            value of the stock on the date of exercise exceeds the
            exercise price, was $4,114, $4,265 and $2,306 for 2011,
            2010 and 2009, respectively.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            In connection with the exercise of stock options during
            2011 and 2010, employees delivered 324,248 and 21,750
            shares, respectively, of common stock to Ocwen as
            payment for the exercise price and the income tax
            withholdings on the compensation. As a result, a total
            of 410,977 and 752,595 net shares of stock were issued
            in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the exercise
            of stock options.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            Excluding 468,750 market-based options that have not
            met their performance criteria, the net aggregate
            intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and stock
            options exercisable at December 31, 2011 was $70,152
            and $47,358, respectively.
          



             
          

             
          



            (4)
          

            The total fair value of stock options that vested and
            became exercisable during 2011, 2010 and 2009, based on
            grant-date fair value, was $1,342, $1,948 and $2,294,
            respectively.
          



       
    

      Stock options outstanding at December 31, 2011:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          


Options Outstanding



 



Options Exercisable



 





Award Year



 



Exercise


Price
              Range



 


 



Number (1)



 


 



Weighted


Average


Exercise


Price



 



Weighted
              Average
              Remaining
              Contractual
              Life (2)



 



Number (1)



 


 



Weighted


Average


Exercise


Price



             
          



            2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            12.83
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            545,000
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            12.83
          

             
          

            10 years
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          



            2009
          

             
          

             
          

            4.82 – 10.67
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            215,625
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6.99
          

             
          

            7 years
          

             
          

             
          

            29,375
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            6.81
          

             
          



            2008
          

             
          

             
          

            4.82
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,872,000
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.82
          

             
          

            7 years
          

             
          

             
          

            3,655,750
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.82
          

             
          



            2006
          

             
          

             
          

            7.16
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            308,753
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7.16
          

             
          

            5 years
          

             
          

             
          

            308,753
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7.16
          

             
          



            2005
          

             
          

             
          

            5.81
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            245,420
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.81
          

             
          

            4 years
          

             
          

             
          

            245,420
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.81
          

             
          



            2004
          

             
          

             
          

            4.84
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            173,546
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.84
          

             
          

            3 years
          

             
          

             
          

            173,546
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4.84
          

             
          



            2003
          

             
          

             
          

            3.72–6.47
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            191,812
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.97
          

             
          

            2 years
          

             
          

             
          

            191,812
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5.97
          

             
          



            2002
          

             
          

             
          

            1.13–1.69
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            201,097
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1.49
          

             
          

            1 year
          

             
          

             
          

            201,097
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1.49
          

             
          



            2001
          

             
          

             
          

            3.49–4.22
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            141,475
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3.78
          

             
          

            (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            141,475
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3.78
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            7,894,728
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,947,228
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            A total of 4,992,312 market-based options were
            outstanding at December 31, 2011, of which 2,579,813
            were exercisable. None of the market performance
            criteria have been met for the 60,000 market-based
            options granted in 2009 at an exercise price of $10.67
            or the 408,750 market-based options granted in 2011 at
            exercise price of $12.83. For all other market-based
            options, which were granted at an exercise price of
            $4.82, the two levels of market performance criteria
            were met in August 2009 and October 2011.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            At December 31, 2011, the weighted average remaining
            contractual term of options outstanding and options
            exercisable was 6.2 years and 5.7 years, respectively.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            These stock options were exercised in 2012 prior to
            their expiration date of January 31, 2012.
          



       
    




              F-47
              








               
            




       
    

      As a result of the Separation, OCN stock option awards are
      held by both Ocwen and Altisource employees as follows at
      December 31, 2011:
    

       
    



            Held by Ocwen employees
          

             
          

             
          

            6,051,495
          

             
          



            Held by Altisource employees
          

             
          

             
          

            1,843,233
          

             
          



            Total outstanding
          

             
          

             
          

            7,894,728
          

             
          



       
    

      In addition, at December 31, 2011, Ocwen employees held
      1,701,312 options to purchase Altisource common stock.
    

       
    

      We are responsible for fulfilling all stock incentive awards
      related to OCN common stock, and Altisource is responsible
      for fulfilling all stock incentive awards related to
      Altisource common stock regardless of whether such stock
      incentive awards are held by our or Altisource’s
      employees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, our stock-based
      compensation expense, resulting from awards outstanding at
      the Separation date, is based on the stock incentive awards
      held by our employees regardless of whether such awards were
      issued by Ocwen or Altisource. Accordingly, stock-based
      compensation that we recognize as expense with respect to
      Altisource stock incentive awards is included in Additional
      paid-in capital on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
    

       
    

      Compensation expense related to options is measured based on
      the grant-date fair value of the options using an appropriate
      valuation model based on the vesting condition of the award.
      The fair value of the time-based options was determined using
      the Black-Scholes options pricing model, while a lattice
      (binomial) model was used to determine the fair value of the
      market-based options. Lattice (binomial) models incorporate
      ranges of assumptions for inputs.
    

       
    

      The following assumptions were used to value the 2011 and
      2009 stock option awards as of the grant dates.
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


2011



 


 



2009



 




 


 



Black-Scholes



 


 



Binomial



 


 



Black-Scholes



 


 



Binomial



             
          



            Risk-free interest rate
          

             
          

             
          

            1.57
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            0.35% – 2.74
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            2.51
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            0.38% – 3.94
          

            %
          



            Expected stock price volatility (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            41
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            30% - 41
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            38
          

            %
          

             
          

             
          

            38% – 46
          

            %
          



            Expected dividend yield
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Expected option life (in years) (2)
          

             
          

             
          

            6.5
          

             
          

             
          

            4.25 & 5.75
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5
          

             
          

             
          

            4.5 & 5.5
          

             
          



            Contractual life (in years)
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10
          

             
          



            Fair value
          

             
          

            $
          

            5.51
          

             
          

             
          

            $4.66 & $4.09
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3.96
          

             
          

             
          

            $3.99 & $3.40
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            We estimate volatility based on the historical
            volatility of OCN’s common stock over the most
            recent period that corresponds with the estimated
            expected life of the option.
          



       
    



            (2)
          

            For the options valued using the Black-Scholes model we
            determined the expected life based on historical
            experience with similar awards, giving consideration to
            the contractual term, exercise patterns and post
            vesting forfeitures. The expected term of the options
            valued using the lattice (binomial) model is derived
            from the output of the model. The lattice (binomial)
            model incorporates exercise assumptions based on
            analysis of historical data. For all options, the
            expected life represents the period of time that
            options granted were expected to be outstanding at the
            date of the award.
          



       
    

      The following table sets forth equity-based compensation
      related to stock options and stock awards and the related
      excess tax benefit for the years ended December 31:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          

            2011
          

             
          

             
          

            2010
          

             
          

             
          

            2009
          

             
          



            Equity-based compensation expense:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Stock option awards
          

             
          

            $
          

            926
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,088
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,802
          

             
          



            Stock awards
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            28
          

             
          



            Excess tax benefit related to share-based awards
          

             
          

             
          

            2,142
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            3,157
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            551
          

             
          



       
    

      As of December 31, 2011, unrecognized compensation costs
      related to non-vested stock options amounted to $2,927, which
      will be recognized over a weighted-average remaining
      requisite service period of approximately 2.27 years.
    

       
    




              F-48
              








               
            




 


NOTE 27 BUSINESS SEGMENT REPORTING


       
    

      Effective January 1, 2011, we realigned our business segments
      in response to the growth in our core servicing business and
      the continuing reductions in our equity investments in asset
      management vehicles and our remaining investments in subprime
      loans and residual securities. Effective with this
      realignment, our former Loans and Residuals segment and Asset
      Management Vehicles segment are included in Corporate Items
      and Other. Our business segments reflect the internal
      reporting that we use to evaluate operating performance of
      products and services and to assess the allocation of our
      resources. Segment results for prior periods have been
      restated to conform to the current segment structure.
    

       
    

      Due to the Separation, as of August 10, 2009, neither the
      assets and liabilities, nor the subsequent operations of the
      former Ocwen Solutions line of business comprising the
      Mortgage Services, Financial Services and Technology Products
      segments are included in our results.
    

       
    

      A brief description of our current business segments is as
      follows:
    

       
    

Servicing. This segment provides loan servicing for a
      fee, including asset management and resolution services,
      primarily to owners of subprime residential mortgages. In
      most cases, we provide these services either because we
      purchased the MSR from the owner of the mortgage or because
      we entered into a subservicing or special servicing agreement
      with the entity that owns the MSR. Subprime loans represent
      residential loans that were made to borrowers who generally
      did not qualify under guidelines of Fannie Mae and Freddie
      Mac (nonconforming loans) or have subsequently become
      delinquent. This segment is primarily comprised of our core
      residential servicing business.
    

       
    

Corporate Items and Other. We report items of revenue
      and expense that are not directly related to a business,
      business activities that are individually insignificant,
      interest income on short-term investments of cash and certain
      corporate expenses in Corporate Items and Other. Debt
      securities, which are comprised of the 3.25% Convertible
      Notes and the 10.875% Capital Securities, are also included
      in Corporate Items and Other.
    

       
    

      Effective with the segment realignment discussed above,
      Corporate Items and Other includes the former Loans and
      Residuals segment and the former Asset Management Vehicles
      segment. Our recently acquired equity investment in
      Correspondent One is also included in Corporate Items and
      Other.
    

       
    

      The former Loans and Residuals segment included our
      investments in subprime residential loans held for resale and
      subprime residual mortgage backed trading securities related
      to our former subprime loan origination operation and whole
      loan purchase and securitization activities. The Loans and
      Residuals segment also included the four loan securitization
      trusts that we began including in our consolidated financial
      statements effective January 1, 2010. The former Asset
      Management Vehicles segment was comprised of our 27% equity
      investment in OSI and approximately a 25% equity investment
      in ONL and OREO. These unconsolidated entities are engaged in
      the management of residential assets. Other business
      activities included in Corporate Items and Other that are not
      considered to be of continuing significance include our
      affordable housing investment activities.
    

       
    

      We allocate interest income and expense to each business
      segment for funds raised or funding of investments made,
      including interest earned on cash balances and short-term
      investments and interest incurred on corporate debt. We also
      allocate expenses generated by corporate support services to
      each business segment.
    

       
    




              F-49
              








               
            




       
    

      Financial information for our segments is as follows:
    

       
    



             
          

             
          


Servicing



 


 


Mortgage
            Services


 


 


Financial
            Services


 


 


Technology
            Products


 


 


Corporate
            Items and
            Other


 


 


Corporate
            Eliminations


 


 


Business
            Segments
            Consolidated


             
          



            Results of Operations
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2011
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Revenue (1) (2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            494,871
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,348
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (1,289
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            495,930
          

             
          



            Operating expenses (1) (3) (4)
          

             
          

             
          

            231,238
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,971
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (625
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            239,584
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            263,633
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,623
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (664
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            256,346
          

             
          



            Other income (expense):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest income
          

             
          

             
          

            110
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,766
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,876
          

             
          



            Interest expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (132,574
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (196
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (132,770
          

            )
          



            Other (1) (2) (5) (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            4,711
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (14,832
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            664
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,457
          

            )
          



            Other income (expense), net
          

             
          

             
          

            (127,753
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (6,262
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            664
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (133,351
          

            )
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
            taxes
          

             
          

            $
          

            135,880
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (12,885
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            122,995
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2010
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Revenue (1) (2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            359,798
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,112
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (1,529
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            360,381
          

             
          



            Operating expenses (1) (3)
          

             
          

             
          

            200,108
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,130
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (764
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            236,474
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            159,690
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (35,018
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (765
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            123,907
          

             
          



            Other income (expense):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest income
          

             
          

             
          

            207
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,652
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            10,859
          

             
          



            Interest expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (80,514
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5,409
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (85,923
          

            )
          



            Other (1) (2) (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,188
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,266
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            765
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (9,689
          

            )
          



            Other income (expense), net
          

             
          

             
          

            (81,495
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,023
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            765
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (84,753
          

            )
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
            taxes
          

             
          

            $
          

            78,195
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (39,041
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            39,154
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2009
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Revenue (1) (2)
          

             
          

            $
          

            272,725
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            54,052
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            40,293
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            28,331
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,917
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (17,590
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            380,728
          

             
          



            Operating expenses (1) (3)(7)
          

             
          

             
          

            129,252
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            37,040
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            45,002
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            18,638
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,247
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (16,525
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            235,654
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            143,473
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            17,012
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (4,709
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            9,693
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (19,330
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,065
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            145,074
          

             
          



            Other income (expense):
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Interest income
          

             
          

             
          

            266
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,518
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,786
          

             
          



            Interest expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (59,458
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (28
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,285
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (289
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,894
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (62,954
          

            )
          



            Other (1) (2) (6)
          

             
          

             
          

            3,400
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            829
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            25
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            186
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (3,150
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            1,065
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,355
          

             
          



            Other income (expense), net
          

             
          

             
          

            (55,792
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            803
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1,260
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (103
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            3,474
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,065
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (51,813
          

            )
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
            taxes
          

             
          

            $
          

            87,681
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            17,815
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (5,969
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            9,590
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (15,856
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            93,261
          

             
          



       
    

       
    




              F-50
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          


Servicing



 


 



Corporate
              Items and
              Other



 


 



Corporate
              Eliminations



 


 



Business
              Segments
              Consolidated



             
          



            Total Assets
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            December 31, 2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,310,354
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            426,803
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,737,157
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            December 31, 2010
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,495,966
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            425,443
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,921,409
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            December 31, 2009
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,191,212
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            578,138
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,769,350
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Intersegment billings for services rendered to other
            segments are recorded as revenues, as contra-expense or
            as other income, depending on the type of service that
            is rendered. Intersegment billings are as follows:
          



       
    



             
          

             
          


Servicing



 


 



Mortgage
              Services



 


 



Technology
              Products



 


 



Corporate
              Items and
              Other



 


 



Business
              Segments
              Consolidated



             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2011
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,170
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            119
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,289
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2010
          

             
          

             
          

            1,356
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            173
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,529
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2009
          

             
          

             
          

            5,668
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            59
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,425
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            471
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,623
          

             
          



       
    



            (2)
          

            Servicing has a contractual right to receive interest
            income on float balances. However, Corporate controls
            investment decisions associated with the float
            balances. Accordingly, Servicing receives revenues
            generated by those investments that are associated with
            float balances but are reported in Corporate Items and
            Other. Gains and losses associated with corporate
            investment decisions are recognized in Corporate Items
            and Other.
          



       
    



            (3)
          

            Depreciation and amortization expense are as follows:
          



       
    



             
          

             
          


Servicing



 


 



Mortgage
              Services



 


 



Financial
              Services



 


 



Technology
              Products



 


 



Corporate
              Items and
              Other



 


 



Business
              Segments
              Consolidated



             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2011:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Depreciation expense
          

             
          

            $
          

            2,410
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,750
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,160
          

             
          



            Amortization of MSRs
          

             
          

             
          

            42,996
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            42,996
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt discount
          

             
          

             
          

            8,853
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,853
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt issuance costs – senior
            secured term loan
          

             
          

             
          

            9,764
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            9,764
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2010:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Depreciation expense
          

             
          

            $
          

            5,916
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,596
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            7,512
          

             
          



            Amortization of MSRs
          

             
          

             
          

            31,455
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,455
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt discount
          

             
          

             
          

            5,217
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            172
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,389
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt issuance costs – senior
            secured term loan
          

             
          

             
          

            2,086
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,086
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            For the year ended December 31, 2009:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Depreciation expense
          

             
          

            $
          

            54
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            19
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            283
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            3,204
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            1,182
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            4,742
          

             
          



            Amortization of MSRs
          

             
          

             
          

            32,228
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            32,228
          

             
          



            Amortization of intangibles
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,624
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,624
          

             
          



            Amortization of debt discount
          

             
          

             
          

            3,437
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            1,735
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            5,172
          

             
          



       
    



            (4)
          

            Operating expenses for 2011 and 2010 include
            non-recurring transaction-related expenses associated
            with the Litton and HomEq acquisitions of $50,340 and
            $52,603, respectively, recorded in the Servicing
            segment.
          



             
          

             
          



            (5)
          

            Other income (expense) for 2010 includes gains of
            $6,036 recorded in Corporate Items and Other from sales
            of our investments in affordable housing projects.
          



             
          

             
          



            (6)
          

            Other income (expense) for 2010 and 2009 includes gains
            (losses) on auction rate securities of $(7,909) and
            $11,863, respectively, recorded in Corporate Items and
            Other.
          



             
          

             
          



            (7)
          

            Operating expenses for 2009 include advisory expenses
            related to the Separation transaction of $3,477
            recorded in Corporate Items and Other.
          



       
    




              F-51
              








               
            




       
    

NOTE 28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS


       
    

      Although Altisource is a separate company from Ocwen after
      the Separation, Altisource and Ocwen have the same Chairman
      of the Board, William C. Erbey. As a result, he has
      obligations to Ocwen as well as to Altisource. Mr. Erbey
      currently owns approximately 14% of the common stock of Ocwen
      and owns approximately 23% of the common stock of Altisource.
    

       
    

      For purposes of governing certain of the ongoing
      relationships between Ocwen and Altisource after the
      Separation, and to provide for an orderly transition to the
      status of two independent companies, we entered into certain
      agreements with Altisource. Under these agreements,
      Altisource and Ocwen provide to each other services in such
      areas as human resources, vendor management, corporate
      services, six sigma, quality assurance, quantitative
      analytics, treasury, accounting, tax matters, risk
      management, law, strategic planning, compliance and other
      areas where we, and Altisource, may need transition
      assistance and support following the Separation. Altisource
      also provides certain technology products and support
      services to us, including the REALSuite™ of
      applications that support our Servicing business. In
      addition, in the third quarter of 2011, Ocwen and Altisource
      entered into a Data Access and Services Agreement under which
      Ocwen agreed to make available to Altisource certain data
      from Ocwen’s servicing portfolio in exchange for a per
      asset fee.
    

       
    

      Certain services provided by Altisource under these contracts
      are charged to the borrower and/or loan investor.
      Accordingly, such services, while derived from our loan
      servicing portfolio, are not reported as expenses by Ocwen.
      These services include residential property valuation,
      residential property preservation and inspection services,
      title services and real estate sales.
    

       
    

       Our business is currently dependent on many of the
      services and products provided under these long-term
      contracts which are effective for up to eight years with
      renewal rights. We believe the rates charged under these
      agreements are market rates as they are materially consistent
      with one or more of the following: the fees charged by
      Altisource to other customers for comparable services and the
      rates Ocwen pays to or observes from other service providers.
    

       
    

      For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, we generated
      revenues of $12,242 and $13,520 respectively, under our
      agreements with Altisource, principally from fees for
      providing referral services to Altisource. We also incurred
      expenses of $23,226 and $20,082 for the years ended December
      31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, principally for technology
      products and support services including the REALSuite™
      of products that support our Servicing business. For the
      period from August 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009, we
      generated $3,534 of revenues and incurred $6,858 of expenses
      under our agreements with Altisource. At December 31, 2011
      and 2010, the net payable to Altisource was $1,965 and
      $1,433, respectively.
    

       
    

      In addition to the revenues and expenses we recorded
      associated with the agreements discussed above, during 2011
      and 2010 we sold certain equipment to Altisource that we had
      acquired from Litton and HomEq. Also, in 2010 we entered into
      an agreement to sublease from Altisource our principal
      executive office space in Atlanta, Georgia. See Note 2
      and Note 10 for additional information regarding these
      transactions.
    

       
    

      As disclosed in Note 11, Ocwen and Altisource each hold
      a 49% equity interest in Correspondent One. Correspondent One
      facilitates the purchase of conforming and
      government-guaranteed residential mortgages from approved
      mortgage originators and resells the mortgages to secondary
      market investors. As of December 31, 2011, Ocwen had invested
      $15,000 in Correspondent One.
    

       
    




              F-52
              








               
            




 


NOTE 29 REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS


       
    

      Our business is subject to extensive regulation by federal,
      state and local governmental authorities, including the
      Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the federal Consumer
      Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), the SEC and various state
      agencies that license, audit and conduct examinations of our
      mortgage servicing and collection activities in a number of
      states. From time to time, we also receive requests from
      federal, state and local agencies for records, documents and
      information relating to our policies, procedures and
      practices regarding our loan servicing and debt collection
      business activities. We incur significant ongoing costs to
      comply with new and existing laws and governmental regulation
      of our business.
    

       
    

      We must comply with a number of federal, state and local
      consumer protection laws including, among others, the
      Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices
      Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), the
      Truth in Lending Act (TILA), the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
      the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, Homeowners Protection
      Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act and, more recently, the
      Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
      (Dodd-Frank Act), and state foreclosure laws. These statutes
      apply to debt collection, use of credit reports, safeguarding
      of non−public personally identifiable information about
      our customers, foreclosure and claims handling, investment of
      and interest payments on escrow balances and escrow payment
      features, and mandate certain disclosures and notices to
      borrowers. These requirements can and do change as statutes
      and regulations are enacted, promulgated or amended.
    

       
    

      Our failure to comply with applicable federal, state and
      local consumer protection laws can lead to:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            civil and criminal liability;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            loss of our licenses and approvals to engage in the
            servicing of residential mortgage loans;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            damage to our reputation in the industry;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            inability to raise capital;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            administrative fines and penalties and litigation,
            including class action lawsuits; and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            governmental investigations and enforcement actions.
          



       
    

      The recent trend among federal, state and local lawmakers and
      regulators has been toward increasing laws, regulations and
      investigative proceedings with regard to the residential real
      estate lenders and servicers. Over the past few years, state
      and federal lawmakers and regulators have adopted a variety
      of new or expanded laws and regulations, including the
      Dodd-Frank Act discussed below. The changes in these
      regulatory and legal requirements, including changes in their
      enforcement, could materially and adversely affect our
      business and our financial condition, liquidity and results
      of operations.
    

       
    

      On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law by
      President Obama. The Dodd-Frank Act constitutes a sweeping
      reform of the regulation and supervision of financial
      institutions, as well as the regulation of derivatives,
      capital market activities and consumer financial services.
      Many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are required to be
      implemented through rulemaking by the appropriate federal
      regulatory agency and will take effect over several years.
      The ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on
      our business will therefore not be fully known for an
      extended period of time.
    

       
    

      The Dodd-Frank Act is extensive and significant legislation
      that, among other things:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            creates an inter-agency body that is responsible for
            monitoring the activities of the financial system and
            recommending a framework for substantially increased
            regulation of large interconnected financial services
            firms;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            creates a liquidation framework for the resolution of
            certain bank holding companies and other large and
            interconnected nonbank financial companies;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            strengthens the regulatory oversight of securities and
            capital markets activities by the SEC; and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            creates the CFPB, a new federal entity responsible for
            regulating consumer financial services.
          



       
    

      The CFPB will directly impact the regulation of residential
      mortgage servicing in a number of ways. First, the CFPB will
      have rulemaking authority with respect to many of the federal
      consumer protection laws applicable to mortgage servicers,
      including TILA and RESPA. Second, the CFPB will have
      supervision, examination and enforcement authority over
      consumer financial products and services offered by certain
      non-depository institutions and large insured depository
      institutions. The CFPB’s jurisdiction will include
      those persons originating, brokering or servicing residential
      mortgage loans and those persons performing loan modification
      or foreclosure relief services in connection with such loans.
      We expect that OLS will be subject to supervision,
      examination and enforcement by the CFPB.
    

       
    




              F-53
              








               
            




       
    

      Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act contains the Mortgage Reform
      and Anti-Predatory Lending Act (Mortgage Act). The Mortgage
      Act imposes a number of additional requirements on servicers
      of residential mortgage loans, such as OLS, by amending
      certain existing provisions and adding new sections to TILA
      and RESPA. The penalties for noncompliance with TILA and
      RESPA are also significantly increased by the Mortgage Act
      and could lead to an increase in lawsuits against mortgage
      servicers. Like other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, the
      Mortgage Act generally requires that implementing regulations
      be issued before many of its provisions are effective.
      Therefore, many of these provisions in the Mortgage Act will
      not be effective until 2013 or early 2014.
    

       
    

      When fully implemented, the Mortgage Act will prevent
      servicers of residential mortgage loans from taking certain
      actions, including the following:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            force-placing insurance, unless there is a reasonable
            belief that the borrower has failed to comply with a
            contract’s requirement to maintain insurance;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            charging a fee for responding to a valid qualified
            written request;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            failing to take timely action to respond to the
            borrower’s request to correct errors related to
            payment, payoff amounts, or avoiding foreclosure;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            failing to respond within ten (10) business days of a
            request from the borrower to provide contact
            information about the owner or assignee of loan; and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            failing to return an escrow balance or provide a credit
            within twenty (20) business days of a residential
            mortgage loan being paid off by the borrower.
          



       
    

      In addition to these restrictions, the Mortgage Act imposes
      certain new requirements and/or shortens the existing
      response time for servicers of residential mortgage loans.
      These new requirements include the following:
    

       
    



             
          

            ·
          

            acknowledging receipt of a qualified written request
            under RESPA within five (5) business days and providing
            a final response within thirty (30) business days;
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            promptly crediting mortgage payments received from the
            borrower on the date of receipt except where payment
            does not conform to previously established
            requirements; and
          



             
          

             
          

             
          



             
          

            ·
          

            sending an accurate payoff statement within a
            reasonable period of time but in no case more than
            seven (7) business days after receipt of a written
            request from the borrower.
          



       
    

      We expect to continue incurring significant ongoing
      operational and system costs in order to prepare for
      compliance with these new laws and regulations. Furthermore,
      there may be additional federal or states laws enacted that
      place additional obligations on servicers of residential
      mortgage loans.
    

       
    

      Effective June 30, 2005, we voluntarily terminated our status
      as a federal savings bank. Prior to returning our original
      thrift charter to the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), we
      operated as a federal savings bank, and Ocwen was a
      registered savings and loan holding company. Our primary
      regulatory authority was the OTS.
    

       
    

      We continued the Bank’s non-depository businesses,
      including its residential mortgage servicing business, under
      OLS, a licensed mortgage servicer in all 50 states, the
      District of Columbia and two U.S. territories. We entered
      into various agreements to obtain the approval of the OTS for
      our plan. We directly or indirectly received assignment of
      all of the assets, liabilities and business (the Assignment).
      We entered into an agreement (the Guaranty) in favor of the
      OTS and any holders of claims with respect to the liabilities
      we assumed in connection with the Assignment. The Guaranty
      contained affirmative covenants relating to the maintenance
      of a $5,000 cash collateral account, reporting requirements,
      transactions with affiliates, preservation of the existence
      of our subsidiaries and maintenance of not less than $35,000
      of unencumbered financial assets. As of December 31, 2011, we
      believe that we were in compliance with all of the covenants
      specified in the Guaranty.
    

       
    

      The Guaranty also contained negative covenants that restrict
      our ability to (i) incur indebtedness if certain financial
      ratios are not achieved or if we fail to maintain a specified
      minimum net worth, (ii) enter into merger transactions or a
      sale of substantially all of our assets, (iii) sell, lease,
      transfer or otherwise dispose of our assets, or (iv) pay
      dividends or acquire our capital stock. We agreed not to
      declare or pay any dividends on or acquire any of our capital
      stock or other ownership interests or make any distributions
      or return of capital to our stockholders, partners or
      members, except for (i) such dividends or distributions that
      are payable only in OCN’s common stock or (ii) such
      declarations, dividends, acquisitions, distributions or
      returns of capital in cash or other property if we maintain a
      minimum net worth of $333,000 and rating of B2 from
      Moody’s and B- from S&P on our unsecured, non
      credit-enhanced debt and any such capital distributions do
      not exceed our consolidated net income for the year plus our
      retained earnings for the two preceding years.
    

       
    

      The Guaranty provided that it would remain in effect until
      the later of (a) the sixth anniversary of the date on which
      the Bank’s federal bank charter was cancelled or (b)
      the date on which we have paid in full (i) any obligations
      that arise out of certain assumed liabilities with respect to
      which a claim has been asserted on or prior to the sixth
      anniversary of the date on which our federal bank charter was
      cancelled and (ii) all other amounts payable by us under the
      Guaranty. The Guaranty expired by its terms on February 29,
      2012.
    

       
    

      There are a number of foreign regulations that are applicable
      to our operations in India, including acts that govern
      licensing, employment, safety, taxes, insurance, and the
      basic law which governs the creation, continuation and the
      winding up of companies as well as the relationships between
      the shareholders, the company, the public and the government.
      The Central Act is applicable to all of India, while various
      state acts may be applicable to certain locations in India.
    

       
    




              F-54
              








               
            




 


NOTE 30 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES


       
    

Litigation


       
    

      Since April 2004, we have been included as a defendant in
      litigation in federal court in Chicago which consolidated
      certain class actions and individual actions brought by
      borrowers in various federal and state courts challenging the
      defendants’ mortgage servicing practices, including
      charging improper or unnecessary fees, misapplying borrower
      payments and similar allegations (the MDL Proceeding). We
      believe the allegations in the MDL Proceeding are without
      merit and have defended against them vigorously. In the
      interests of obtaining finality and cost certainty with
      regard to this complex and protracted litigated matter,
      however, defendants, including Ocwen, entered into a
      definitive written agreement with plaintiffs’ counsel
      with respect to a class settlement. Ocwen’s portion of
      the proposed settlement payment is $5,163 plus certain other
      non-cash consideration and administrative costs. On July 1,
      2011, the Court granted final approval to this class
      settlement. Defendants, including Ocwen, have paid their
      respective portions of the settlement into escrow and notice
      of the settlement has been provided to potential class
      members. On July 6, 2011, the Court entered final judgment
      and no appeals were filed. While there are some claims that
      are subject to opt-outs by individual plaintiffs, these are
      not viewed as material at this time.
    

       
    

      In September 2006, the Bankruptcy Trustee in Chapter 7
      proceedings involving American Business Financial Services,
      Inc. (ABFS) brought an action against multiple defendants,
      including Ocwen, in Bankruptcy Court. The action arises out
      of Debtor-in-Possession financing to ABFS by defendant
      Greenwich Capital Financial Products, Inc. and the subsequent
      purchases by Ocwen of MSRs and certain residual interests in
      mortgage-backed securities previously held by ABFS. The
      Trustee filed an amended complaint in March 2007 alleging
      various claims against Ocwen including turnover, fraudulent
      transfers, accounting, breach of fiduciary duty, aiding and
      abetting breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, fraud,
      civil conspiracy and conversion. The Trustee seeks
      compensatory damages in excess of $100,000 and punitive
      damages jointly and severally against all defendants. In
      April 2008, Ocwen filed an answer denying all charges and a
      counterclaim for breach of contract, fraud, negligent
      misrepresentation and indemnification in connection with the
      MSR purchase transaction. Fact discovery is complete and
      both Ocwen and the Trustee have filed motions for partial
      summary judgment. We believe that the Trustee’s
      allegations against Ocwen are without merit and intend to
      continue to vigorously defend against this matter. We are
      unable to provide any estimate of possible loss or range of
      possible loss at this time.
    

       
    

      We are subject to various other pending legal proceedings,
      including those subject to loss sharing provisions of the
      Litton Acquisition more fully described in Note 2. In
      our opinion, the resolution of those proceedings will not
      have a material effect on our financial condition, results of
      operations or cash flows.
    

       
    

        Tax Matters


       
    

      On December 21, 2009, the India tax authorities issued a
      draft income tax assessment order (the First Order) with
      respect to assessment year 2006 – 2007. The proposed
      adjustment would impose upon OFSPL additional tax of INR
      41,760 ($784) and interest of INR 18,297 ($344) for the
      Assessment Year 2006 – 2007, and penalties may be
      assessed. OCN and OFSPL intend to vigorously contest this
      Order and any imposition of tax and interest and do not
      believe they have violated any statutory provision or rule.
      OFSPL has filed an application with the Dispute Resolution
      Panel for the First Order. OFSPL received the final
      assessment order (the Second Order) on November 24, 2010,
      with a demand of INR 64,085 ($1,203), reflecting tax of INR
      41,712 ($783) and interest of INR 22,373 ($420). In response,
      OFSPL petitioned for assistance to be provided by the
      Competent Authority under the Mutual Agreement Procedures of
      the U.S./India income tax treaty, furnished a Bank Guarantee
      for INR 76,754 ($1,441) related to transfer pricing matters
      and paid INR 7,647 ($144) towards non-transfer pricing
      issues. Furthermore, OFSPL has submitted an appeal of the
      Second Order to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal.  
    

       
    

      On January 4, 2011, OFSPL received a draft assessment order
      (the Third Order) with respect to assessment year 2007
      – 2008. The proposed adjustment would impose upon OFSPL
      additional tax of INR 63,885 ($1,199) and interest of INR
      28,748 ($540). OFSPL filed an application and received no
      relief from the Dispute Resolution Panel for the Third Order.
      OFSPL filed an appeal of the Third Order with the Income Tax
      Appellate Tribunal on December 20, 2011 and is in the process
      of filing a further appeal under the Mutual Agreement
      Procedures of the U.S./India income tax treaty. Due to the
      uncertainties inherent in the Appeals and Competent Authority
      processes, Ocwen and OFSPL cannot currently estimate any
      additional exposure beyond the amount currently detailed in
      the Orders. We also cannot predict when these tax matters
      will be resolved. Competent Authority assistance requests
      under the Mutual Agreement Procedures should preserve
      Ocwen’s right to offset any potential increase in India
      taxes against Ocwen’s U.S. taxes.
    

       
    

Other Information


       
    

      In July 2010, OLS received two subpoenas from the Federal
      Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) as conservator for Freddie Mac
      and Fannie Mae in connection with ten private label mortgage
      securitization transactions where Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae
      have invested. The transactions include mortgage loans
      serviced but not originated by OLS or its affiliates. There
      is no allegation of wrongdoing in the subpoenas against OLS,
      and we are cooperating with the FHFA’s requests.
    

       
    

      On November 24, 2010, OLS received a Civil Investigative
      Demand (CID) from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
      requesting documents and information regarding various
      servicing activities. There is no allegation of wrongdoing
      against OLS in the FTC CID, and we are cooperating with the
      FTC’s request.
    

       
    

      On November 7, 2011, OLS received a CID from the Attorney
      General’s Office of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
      requesting documents and information regarding certain
      foreclosures executed in Massachusetts. There is no
      allegation of wrongdoing against OLS in the Massachusetts
      Attorney General CID, and we are cooperating with the
      Massachusetts Attorney General’s request.
    

       
    




              F-55
              








               
            




       
    

      On January 18, 2012, OLS received a subpoena from the New
      York Department of Financial Services requesting documents
      regarding OLS’ policies, procedures and practices
      regarding lender placed or “force placed”
      insurance which is required to be provided for borrowers who
      allow their hazard insurance policies to lapse. There is no
      allegation of wrongdoing against OLS in the subpoena, and we
      are cooperating with the New York Department of Financial
      Service’s request.
    

       
    

      Recent inquiries into servicer foreclosure processes
      could result in actions by state or federal governmental
      bodies, regulators or the courts that could result in
      temporary moratoria on mortgage foreclosures or an extension
      of foreclosure timelines, which may be applicable generally
      to the servicing industry or to us in particular.  In
      addition, a number of our match funded advance facilities
      contain provisions that limit the eligibility of advances to
      be financed based on the length of time that advances are
      outstanding, and three of our match funded advance facilities
      have provisions that limit new borrowings if average
      foreclosure timelines extend beyond a certain time period,
      either of which, if such provisions applied, could adversely
      affect liquidity by reducing our average effective advance
      rate.  In addition, governmental bodies may impose
      regulatory fines or penalties as a result of our foreclosure
      processes or impose additional requirements or restrictions
      on such activities which could increase our operating
      expenses.  Increases in the amount of advances and the
      length of time to recover advances, fines or increases in
      operating expenses, and decreases in the advance rate and
      availability of financing for advances would lead to
      increased borrowings, reduced cash and higher interest
      expense which  could negatively impact our liquidity and
      profitability. With respect to the Servicing segment, Ocwen
      is not the title owner of record for any foreclosed real
      estate, and neither Ocwen nor any of its subsidiaries make
      any type of direct title warranty to a subsequent purchaser
      of foreclosed real estate.
    

       
    

      Ocwen has been a party to loan sales and securitizations
      dating back to the 1990s.  The majority of securities
      issued in these transactions has been retired and are not
      subject to putback risk. There is one remaining
      securitization with an original UPB of approximately $200,000
      where Ocwen provided representations and warranties and the
      loans were originated in the last decade.  Ocwen
      performed due diligence on each of the loans included in this
      securitization. The outstanding UPB of this securitization
      was $47,670 at December 31, 2011, and the outstanding balance
      of the notes was $48,462. Ocwen is not aware of any inquiries
      or claims regarding loan putbacks for any transaction where
      we made representations and warranties. We do not expect loan
      putbacks to result in any material change to our financial
      position, operating results or liquidity.
    

       
    

Commitments


       
    

      We lease certain of our premises and equipment under
      non-cancelable operating leases with terms expiring through
      2018 exclusive of renewal option periods. Our annual
      aggregate minimum rental commitments under these leases are
      summarized as follows:
    

       
    



            2012
          

             
          

            $
          

            6,237
          

             
          



            2013
          

             
          

             
          

            7,457
          

             
          



            2014
          

             
          

             
          

            3,700
          

             
          



            2015
          

             
          

             
          

            3,485
          

             
          



            2016
          

             
          

             
          

            2,924
          

             
          



            Thereafter
          

             
          

             
          

            2,265
          

             
          



            Total minimum lease payments
          

             
          

            $
          

            26,068
          

             
          



       
    

      In connection with the HomEq Acquisition we
      assumed the obligation for the lease agreements associated
      with the former HomEq facilities located in Raleigh, North
      Carolina and Sacramento, California. Although these
      agreements expire in 2017 and 2018, respectively, we have
      exercised our option to terminate the leases effective in
      2013. The rental commitments in the table above for operating
      leases include the remaining monthly payments and the early
      termination penalties due through the early termination dates
      in 2013 for these leases. These amounts total $2,668 and
      $3,579 for 2012 and 2013, respectively. As part of the Litton
      Acquisition, we assumed the leases associated with the former
      Litton facilities located in Houston, Texas and McDonough,
      Georgia. These agreements expire in 2012 and 2017,
      respectively. The lease associated with the Houston, Texas
      facility will likely not be renewed upon expiration. The
      table above includes total rental commitments of $7,294
      related to these leases.
    

       
    

      In December 2010, we entered into an agreement with
      Altisource to sublease of 2,094 square feet of space as our
      principal executive office in Atlanta, Georgia. Under the
      terms of the agreement, Ocwen is responsible for monthly base
      rent of $3 plus a proportionate amount of maintenance costs
      and other shared services. The sublease is in effect through
      October 2014.
    

       
    

      We converted rental commitments for our facilities outside
      the United States of America to U.S. dollars using exchange
      rates in effect at December 31, 2011. Rent expense for 2011,
      2010 and 2009 was $5,578, $12,315 and $6,156, respectively.
    

       
    



      On October 19, 2011, Ocwen entered into a purchase agreement
      with SCI Services, Inc. (SCI), Saxon Capital Holdings, LLC
      (Saxon Capital) and Morgan Stanley Capital Holdings, LLC
      (Morgan Stanley) to acquire (i) all of the issued and
      outstanding stock of SCI and (ii) certain MSRs owned by
      Morgan Stanley and its affiliates (the Saxon Acquisition).
      SCI is a subsidiary of Saxon Capital and the parent company
      of Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc., a provider of servicing and
      subservicing of primarily non-prime residential mortgage
      loans. Morgan Stanley is the parent company of Saxon Capital
      Holdings, LLC. The Saxon Acquisition will result in the
      acquisition of a servicing portfolio of approximately
      $26,800,000 in UPB as of June 30, 2011, of which Ocwen
      subserviced approximately $10,800,000 as of June 30, 2011.
      The Saxon Acquisition also includes approximately $12,900,000
      of loans that SCI subservices for Morgan Stanley and others.
      This subservicing may be transferred to Ocwen, pending
      approval by the owners of the servicing, or will be
      subserviced by Ocwen under short-term agreements. The base
      purchase price for the Saxon Transaction is $59,300. In
      addition, Ocwen will pay approximately $292,200 for the
      portion of the approximately $1,392,000 of Saxon servicing
      advance receivables that were not financed by third parties.
      We expect to complete the Saxon Acquisition in March 2012.
    

       
    

      Ocwen is funding the amounts for the Saxon Acquisition
      through a combination of cash on-hand, cash generated through
      operations, available credit, an additional $200,000
      borrowing under our senior secured term loan facility and
      additional borrowing under existing servicing advance
      facilities. The additional $200,000 borrowing under the
      senior secured term loan will increase mandatory principal
      repayments by $5,263 per quarter. The new borrowings bear
      interest at the same rate(s) as the initial term loan and
      have the same maturity date. See Note 15 for additional
      information regarding the terms of the senior secured term
      loan.
    

       
    

      As a part of the Saxon Acquisition, the sellers and Ocwen
      have agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of
      the other party. While the sellers have agreed to retain
      certain contingent liabilities for losses, fines and
      penalties that could result from claims by government
      authorities and certain third parties relating to SCI’s
      pre-closing foreclosure, servicing and loan origination
      practices, the sellers and Ocwen have agreed to share certain
      losses arising out of potential third-party claims in
      connection with SCI’s pre-closing performance under its
      servicing agreements. The sellers have agreed to be liable
      for (i) 75% of any such losses until the amount paid by the
      sellers is equal to 60% of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap of
      $83,000 and (ii) thereafter, 25% of any such losses until the
      amount paid by the sellers is equal to the Saxon Shared Loss
      Cap. Ocwen has agreed to be liable for (i) first, 25% of any
      such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to
      60% of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap, (ii) second, 75% of any
      such losses until the amount paid by the sellers is equal to
      the Saxon Shared Loss Cap and (iii) thereafter, 100% of any
      such losses in excess of the Saxon Shared Loss Cap.
    



       
    



      On November 4, 2011, Ocwen entered into a servicing rights
      purchase agreement with JPMorgan Chase, N.A. (JPMCB) to
      acquire less than 2% of JPMCB’s mortgage servicing
      portfolio which includes servicing rights for certain third
      party private securitizations in which neither JPMCB nor any
      of its affiliated entities were issuers or loan sellers. The
      transaction relates to MSRs for approximately 82,000
      non-prime loans with a UPB of approximately $15,000,000 as of
      September 30, 2011 (the JPMCB MSR Transaction). The purchase
      price, subject to adjustment at closing and inclusive of
      servicing advance receivables, is approximately $950,000,
      which will be payable in cash by Ocwen.  Ocwen expects
      to finance $625,000 of the purchase price through an existing
      servicing advance facility.  We do not expect any
      adjustment to the purchase price to be material.
    

       
    




              F-56
              








               
            




       
    

      As part of the JPMCB MSR Transaction, JPMCB and Ocwen have
      agreed to indemnification provisions for the benefit of the
      other party.  There is no assurance that JPMCB will
      fulfill its indemnification obligations.
    

       
    

      The JPMCB MSR Transaction is expected to close in early April
      2012; however the JPMCB MSR Transaction may close in phases
      on more than one date.  Closing of the JPMCB MSR
      Transaction is subject to closing conditions, including but
      not limited to obtaining applicable third party
      authorizations and amendments.  There can be no
      assurance that the JPMCB MSR Transaction will be consummated
      as proposed or at all.
    

       
    

      Ocwen is funding the amounts for the JPMCB MSR Transaction
      through a combination of cash on-hand, cash generated through
      operations, available credit, additional borrowing under our
      September 1, 2011 senior secured term loan facility and
      servicing advance facilities.
    

       
    

NOTE 31 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
      (UNAUDITED)


       
    



             
          

             
          


Quarters Ended



 




 


 



December 31,


2011



 


 



September 30,


2011



 


 



June 30,


2011



 


 



March 31,


2011



             
          



            Revenue
          

             
          

            $
          

            156,625
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            122,462
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            105,837
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            111,006
          

             
          



            Operating expenses (1)
          

             
          

             
          

            90,481
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            65,650
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            42,254
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            41,199
          

             
          



            Income from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            66,144
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            56,812
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            63,583
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            69,807
          

             
          



            Other expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (47,625
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (27,861
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (22,547
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (35,318
          

            )
          



            Income from continuing operations before income taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            18,519
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            28,951
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            41,036
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            34,489
          

             
          



            Income tax expense (benefit)
          

             
          

             
          

            8,864
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            8,730
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            14,653
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            12,425
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations
          

             
          

             
          

            9,655
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,221
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,383
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,064
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of
            taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net income
          

             
          

             
          

            9,655
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,221
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            26,383
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            22,064
          

             
          



            Net loss (income) attributable to non-controlling
            interests
          

             
          

             
          

            (4
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            7
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (5
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            10
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            9,651
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            20,228
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            26,378
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            22,074
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic earnings per share
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.08
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.20
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.26
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.22
          

             
          



            Income from discontinued operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.08
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.20
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.26
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.22
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Diluted earnings per share
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.08
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.19
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.25
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.21
          

             
          



            Income from discontinued operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net income attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.08
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.19
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.25
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.21
          

             
          



       
    




              F-57
              








               
            




       
    



             
          

             
          


Quarters Ended



 




 


 



December 31,


2010



 


 



September 30,


2010



 


 



June 30,


2010



 


 



March 31,


2010



             
          



            Revenue
          

             
          

            $
          

            113,273
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            95,569
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            75,953
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            75,586
          

             
          



            Operating expenses (2)(3)
          

             
          

             
          

            63,265
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            93,374
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            44,658
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            35,177
          

             
          



            Income from operations
          

             
          

             
          

            50,008
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            2,195
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,295
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            40,409
          

             
          



            Other expense
          

             
          

             
          

            (34,849
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (22,907
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (18,033
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,964
          

            )
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations before income
            taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            15,159
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (20,712
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            13,262
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            31,445
          

             
          



             Income tax expense (benefit)
          

             
          

             
          

            5,235
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (7,487
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (2,777
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            10,574
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

             
          

            9,924
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (13,225
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            16,039
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,871
          

             
          



            Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            4,383
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net income (loss)
          

             
          

             
          

            9,924
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (8,842
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            16,039
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            20,871
          

             
          



            Net loss (income) attributable to non-controlling
            interests
          

             
          

             
          

            (3
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            7
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            (1
          

            )
          

             
          

             
          

            (11
          

            )
          



            Net income (loss) attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            9,921
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (8,835
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            16,038
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            20,860
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Basic earnings per share:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (loss)from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.10
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.13
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.16
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.21
          

             
          



            Income from discontinued operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net income (loss) attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.10
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.09
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.16
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.21
          

             
          



             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Diluted earnings per share:
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

             
          



            Income (loss) from continuing operations
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.09
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.13
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.15
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.20
          

             
          



            Income from discontinued operations
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            0.04
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          

             
          

             
          

            —
          

             
          



            Net income (loss) attributable to OCN
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.09
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            (0.09
          

            )
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.15
          

             
          

             
          

            $
          

            0.20
          

             
          



       
    



            (1)
          

            Operating expenses for 2011 include non-recurring costs
            of $50,340 that we incurred as a result of the Litton
            Acquisition, including $472, $18,746 and $31,122 in the
            second, third and fourth quarters, respectively. See
            Note 2 for additional information on the Litton
            Acquisition.
          



             
          

             
          



            (2)
          

            As a result of the HomEq Acquisition, we incurred
            non-recurring costs of $52,603 during 2010, including
            $1,250, $33,901 and $17,452 in the second, third and
            fourth quarters, respectively. See Note 2 for
            additional information on the HomEq Acquisition.
          



             
          

             
          



            (3)
          

            In connection with litigation matters, we established
            $24,166 of additional reserves in 2010, including
            $5,163 in the second quarter, $18,413 in the third
            quarter and $590 in the fourth quarter. See
            Note 30 for additional information on litigation.
          



       
    

NOTE 32 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS


       
    

      On January 27, 2012, Ocwen terminated its foreign exchange
      forward contracts which had a notional balance of $46,200 at
      December 31, 2011 and recognized a gain of $3,359. See
      Note 19 for additional information on these derivative
      financial instruments.
    

       
    

      On February 10, 2012, OLS entered into an agreement to sell
      to HLSS Holdings, LLC (HLSS Holdings), a wholly owned
      subsidiary of Home Loan Servicing Solutions, Ltd. (HLSS), the
      right to receive the servicing fees, excluding ancillary
      income, relating to certain mortgage servicing (Rights to
      MSRs) for approximately $16 billion of UPB and related
      servicing advances that Ocwen acquired in connection with the
      HomEq Acquisition. With the exception of the Class D Term
      Note, HLSS Holdings will also assume the related match funded
      liabilities under the structured servicing advance financing
      facility that Ocwen entered into to fund the advances that
      were acquired. We refer to this sale to HLSS Holdings of the
      Rights to MSRs and related servicing advances and the
      assumption of the HomEq Servicing advance facility by HLSS
      Holdings as the HLSS Transaction. Prior to the closing of the
      HLSS Transaction, Ocwen will repay the Class D Term Notes
      which had an outstanding balance of $11,638 at December 31,
      2011. See Note 13 for additional information regarding
      the match funded liabilities to be assumed by HLSS Holdings.
    

       
    




              F-58
              








               
            




       
    

      OLS also entered into an agreement with HLSS Holdings for the
      provision of certain professional services to OLS and the
      provision by OLS of certain professional services to HLSS
      Holdings. Services provided by HLSS Holdings include pricing
      and valuation analysis of potential MSR acquisitions,
      treasury management services and other similar services.
      Services provided by OLS include legal, licensing and
      regulatory compliance support services, risk management
      services and other similar services. This agreement has an
      initial term of six years and is subject to termination by
      either party upon the occurrence of certain events. The fees
      charged by OLS and HLSS Holdings are based on the actual
      costs incurred by the party providing the service plus an
      additional markup of 15%.
    

       
    

      As part of the HLSS Transaction, OLS will retain legal
      ownership of the MSRs and continue to service the related
      mortgage loans. However, OLS will service the loans for a
      reduced fee because HLSS Holdings will assume the match
      funded liabilities as well as the obligation to make and
      finance future servicing advances related to the MSRs. OLS
      will be obligated to transfer legal ownership of the MSRs to
      HLSS Holdings if and when the required third party consents
      are obtained. At that time, OLS would commence subservicing
      the MSRs under essentially the same terms and conditions
      pursuant to a subservicing agreement with HLSS Holdings,
      which was also executed on February 10, 2012.
    

       
    

      The HLSS Transaction will not close until HLSS completes an
      initial public offering of its ordinary shares and other
      closing conditions are satisfied. The HLSS Transaction will
      result in cash proceeds of approximately $181,000 to Ocwen,
      25% of which will be used to reduce the balance on
      Ocwen’s senior secured term loan that it entered into
      on September 1, 2011 as required under the terms of the
      related loan agreement. The remainder will be used for
      general corporate purposes. See Note 15 for additional
      information regarding the senior secured term loan. As of
      December 31, 2011, Ocwen had paid fees of $1,479 on behalf of
      HLSS for organizational costs and costs associated with
      HLSS’ planned initial public offering. This amount is
      included in Other receivables. Ocwen may make additional
      payments on behalf of HLSS until the initial public offering
      is completed at which time Ocwen expects to be reimbursed by
      HLSS.
    

       
    



      On February 27, 2012, we provided notice of redemption to all
      the holders of our 3.25% Convertible Notes stating our
      election to redeem all of the $56,435 outstanding notes on
      March 28, 2012 (Redemption Date).  Holders can have
      their notes redeemed at a price of 100% of principal
      outstanding, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. The
      Convertible Notes called for redemption may be converted at
      any time prior to the close of business on the business day
      prior to the Redemption Date.  Holders may convert their
      notes to shares of our common stock, at a conversion rate of
      82.1693 per $1,000 (in dollars) principal amount of the
      Convertible Notes (representing a conversion price of $12.17
      per share). Upon conversion, we can choose to satisfy all or
      any portion of the conversion obligation in cash.  We
      expect most of the holders to elect conversion and we plan to
      satisfy the entire conversion obligation in shares. 
      Assuming all holders elect to convert, the number of shares
      of common stock outstanding is expected to increase by
      4,637,224. See Note 16 for additional information
      regarding the Convertible Notes.
    

       
    

      F-59
    





