
10-K
1
d305090d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
As filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2012 
   
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
 (Mark One)   


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 
or   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from
            to              Commission file number: 001-11015   
  VIAD CORP
 (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
 






Delaware
 
36-1169950

 State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization
 
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)




 1850 North Central Avenue, Suite 1900
Phoenix, Arizona
 
85004-4565

(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: 
(602) 207-1000  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   






 Title of each class
 
 Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, $1.50 par value
 
New York Stock Exchange

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
 
New York Stock Exchange
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None   
  Indicate by check mark if the
registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined by Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files.)    Yes  x    No  ¨  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    x 
Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check One): 
 










Large accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Accelerated filer
 
x






Non-accelerated filer
 
¨
  
Smaller reporting company
 
¨
 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x  The aggregate market value of the Common Stock (based on its closing price per share on such date) held by non-affiliates on the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second
fiscal quarter (June 30, 2011) was approximately $440 million.  Registrant had 20,144,912 shares of Common Stock ($1.50 par value) outstanding
as of January 31, 2012.     
Documents Incorporated by Reference  A portion of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Viad Corp to be held May 15, 2012 is incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report. 
   
 


Table of Contents
INDEX 
 










  
 
 
  
Page
 

 Part I 
 

  




 Item 1.
 
 Business
  
 
1
  

 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
  
 
6
  

 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
9
  

 Item 2.
 
 Properties
  
 
9
  

 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
9
  

 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
10
  

 Other.
 
 Executive Officers of Registrant
  
 
10
  





 Part II 
 

  




 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
12
  

 Item 6.
 
 Selected Financial Data 
  
 
14
  

 Item 7.
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
16
  

 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
27
  

 Item 8.
 
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
28
  

 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
28
  

 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
28
  

 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
  
 
29
  





 Part III 
 

  




 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
29
  

 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
  
 
29
  

 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
29
  

 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
29
  

 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
 
29
  





 Part IV 
 

  




 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
  
 
29
  



Table of Contents
PART I 
 


Item 1.
Business.  Viad Corp (together with its subsidiaries, “Viad” or the “Company”) derives its revenues from experiential services provided primarily within the exhibition and events industry and
travel and recreation industry. Viad occupies leading positions as a value-added service provider in many of the markets in which it competes. Viad serves clients predominantly in North America, the United Kingdom, Germany and the United Arab
Emirates.  Viad organizes its businesses into two main operating groups: 
Marketing & Events Group. The Marketing & Events Group specializes in all aspects of the design, planning
and production of face-to-face events, immersive environments and brand-based experiences for clients, including show organizers, corporate brand marketers and retail shopping centers. The mission of the Marketing & Events Group is to
create the world’s most meaningful and memorable experiences for brand marketers, show organizers, event attendees and retail shopping centers. Show organizers include for-profit and not-for-profit show owners as well as show management
companies. Corporate brand marketers include exhibitors and domestic and international corporations which want to promote their brands, feature new products, services and innovations and build business relationships. Viad’s retail shopping
center customers include major developers, owners and management companies of shopping malls and lifestyle centers. 
Travel & Recreation Group. The Travel & Recreation Group generates its revenues from tourism products and
experiential services, including world-class attractions, hotel and concession operations, transportation services and package tour operations in and around Western Canada, Glacier National Park in Montana, Denali National Park and Preserve in
Alaska and Waterton Lakes National Park in Alberta, Canada.  Viad’s two business groups are supported by a centralized
Corporate Services Group, which provides functional support in the areas of human resources, legal, finance and accounting, internal auditing, information technology, corporate development, real estate and tax. 
Reportable Segments 
With the two business groups, Viad’s organizational structure, operational decision-making authority, allocation of resources and
internal reporting are aligned into the following reportable business segments:   


 
•
 
 Marketing & Events U.S. segment;   


 
•
 
 Marketing & Events International segment; and 
 


 
•
 
 Travel & Recreation Group segment.  No reportable segment has a client comprising more than seven percent of that segment’s revenues, and no client comprises more than five percent of Viad’s revenues. Viad’s reportable
business segments are described below.  Marketing & Events U.S. Segment 
The Marketing & Events U.S. segment (the “U.S. segment”) is comprised of the domestic operations of Global Experience
Specialists, Inc. and affiliates (“GES”). This segment generates revenues from the following services:  Show
Organizer Services. Under agreements with show organizers, the U.S. segment serves as the official services contractor of an exhibition, which is also referred to as a “trade show,” “convention” or “show.” As the
official services contractor, the U.S. segment provides the following services to the show organizer: general event management; planning and consultation; concept design; exhibition layout and design; graphics and design; show traffic analysis;
carpeting and flooring; decorating products and accessories; custom graphics; overhead rigging; cleaning and temporary electrical, lighting and plumbing.  Exclusive Services Provided to Exhibitors. As the official services contractor, the U.S. segment is designated by the show organizer as the exclusive provider of certain services offered to
exhibitors participating in the exhibition. This designation provides exhibitors with a single point of contact to facilitate a timely, safe and efficient move-in and move-out of the exhibition and to facilitate an organized, professional
during-show experience. The exclusive services offered by the U.S. segment to exhibitors include: material handling services; overhead rigging; temporary electrical and plumbing and cleaning. 
Discretionary Services Provided to Exhibitors. In addition to the exclusive services offered to exhibitors, the U.S. segment
competes with other service providers to sell non-exclusive services to exhibitors, including: custom exhibit design and construction; portable and “modular” exhibits and design; integrated marketing, including pre- and post-event
communications and customer relationship management; multimedia services; event surveys; return on investment analysis; attendee and exhibit booth traffic analysis; staff training; online management tools; logistics and freight-forwarding, storage
and refurbishment of exhibits; booth furnishings, carpeting and signage; in-house installation and dismantling; and various 
  1 


Table of Contents

other show services. The U.S. segment aims to provide these services, combined with complete event program management and planning, to corporate brand marketers across all exhibitions and events
in which they participate. The U.S. segment competes with other service providers to offer these discretionary services to exhibitors, regardless of whether or not the U.S. segment is the official services contractor of the exhibition. 
Other Marketing Services. The U.S. segment also provides a variety of immersive, entertaining attractions and brand-based
experiences, sponsored events, mobile marketing and other branded entertainment and face-to-face marketing solutions for clients and venues, including movie studios, leading consumer brand marketers, shopping malls, museums and casinos. In addition,
the U.S. segment offers retail clients complete turnkey services, including design, engineering, graphic production, fabrication, warehousing, shipping and on-site installation of retail merchandising units, kiosks and holiday environments. The U.S.
segment also provides construction and installation services for permanent installations, including museum exhibits, corporate lobbies, visitors centers, showrooms and retail interiors. 
Competition. The U.S. segment generally competes in the exhibition and events industry on the basis of discernible differences,
value, quality, price, convenience and service. Viad believes the primary competitor in the domestic official services contractor market is The Freeman Companies (a private company), however, the U.S. segment encounters substantial competition from
a large number of providers. No competitor has significant market share in the other service categories. Most of the competitors are privately held companies with limited information available about them. 
During 2011, the U.S. segment provided services to over 1,500 exhibitions and events and more than 166,000 exhibitors. The U.S. segment
has full-service operations in every major exhibition market in the United States, including: Las Vegas, Nevada; Chicago, Illinois; Orlando, Florida; New York, New York and Los Angeles, California. In each of these locations, the U.S. segment is a
leading service provider, servicing some of the most visible and influential events in its industry.  Marketing &
Events International Segment  The Marketing & Events International segment (the “International segment”)
includes all foreign operations of the Marketing & Events Group and consists of two operating segments: Canada and EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Asia). The International segment offers services that are similar to those provided by the U.S.
segment. These services are delivered by Viad’s wholly-owned subsidiaries including: GES Exposition Services (Canada) Limited, Melville Exhibition and Event Services Limited and affiliates (collectively, “Melville”), SDD Exhibitions
Limited and GES GmbH & Co. KG.  During 2011, the International segment provided services to over 650 exhibitions and
events and more than 58,000 exhibitors. The International segment has full-service operations in many of the most active and popular exhibition and event destinations, including ten Canadian cities, six United Kingdom cities, one German city and two
cities in the United Arab Emirates. In each location, the International segment is a leading service provider, servicing some of the most visible and influential events in its industry. 
Competition. The International segment generally competes on the basis of discernible differences, value, quality, price,
convenience and service. The International segment is the largest exhibitions competitor in the countries in which it competes. The International segment encounters competition from a large number of providers of similar services. Most of the
competitors are privately held companies, with limited information available about them.  Travel & Recreation
Group Segment  Travel and recreation services are provided by Brewster Inc. (“Brewster”), Glacier Park, Inc.
(“Glacier Park”) and Alaskan Park Properties, Inc. (“Alaskan Park Properties”). Brewster and Alaskan Park Properties are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Viad and Glacier Park is an 80 percent owned subsidiary of Viad.
 Brewster  Brewster is a major tourism service operator in Western Canada, delivering tourism products that include world-class attractions, transportation services, inbound package tour operations, hotel operations
and corporate and event management.  Attractions. Brewster’s attractions include the Banff Gondola, tours of the
Athabasca Glacier on the Columbia Icefield and the Banff Lake Cruise operations. The Banff Gondola transports visitors to an elevation of over 7,000 feet above sea level to the top of Sulphur Mountain in Banff, Alberta, Canada, offering an
unobstructed view of the Canadian Rockies and overlooking the town of Banff and the Bow Valley. Tours of the Athabasca Glacier on the Columbia Icefield provide clients with an opportunity to experience one of the largest accumulations of ice and
snow south of the Arctic Circle. Icefield customers ride in an “Ice Explorer,” a unique vehicle specially designed for glacier travel. Brewster also offers boat tours, small boat rentals and charter fishing on Lake Minnewanka, which is
situated outside of the town of Banff in the heart of the Canadian Rockies. 
  2 


Table of Contents
Transportation Operations. Brewster’s transportation operations include charter
motorcoach services, sightseeing and scheduled services and airport service. Brewster operates a modern fleet of luxury motorcoaches, available for groups of any size, for travel throughout the Canadian provinces of Alberta and British Columbia. In
addition, Brewster provides seasonal half- and full-day sightseeing tours from Calgary, Banff, Lake Louise and Jasper, Canada. 
Package Tour Operations and Corporate and Event Management. Brewster’s inbound package tour operations feature year-round
package tours throughout Canada. These packages include motorcoach, rail, self-drive automobile, ski and winter touring and consist of both group and individual tours which may be custom designed at the time of booking. Brewster also offers a full
suite of corporate and event management services for meetings, conferences, incentive travel, sports and special events. Event-related service offerings include staffing, off-site events, tours/activities, team building, housing, event management,
theme development, production and audio visual services.  Hotels. Brewster operates two hotels in Alberta: the Mount
Royal Hotel, which is located in the heart of Banff, and the Glacier View Inn, which is located on the Columbia Icefield between Lake Louise and Jasper. The hotels cater principally to leisure travelers.
Brewster draws its customers from major markets including Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia/New Zealand and Asia.
Brewster markets directly to consumers, as well as through distribution channels that include tour operators, tour wholesalers, destination management companies and retail travel agencies/organizations. 
In October 2010, “Brewster Travel Canada” became the new brand identity of Brewster. 
Glacier Park  Glacier Park is an independent hotel operator and concessionaire of Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park, which encompasses Glacier National Park in Montana and Waterton Lakes National Park in
Alberta, Canada. Glacier Park is the largest concessionaire in Glacier National Park which is among the most visited National Parks in the United States. Glacier Park provides lodging accommodations, food and beverage services, retail operations,
transportation services and tours throughout Glacier and Waterton-Lakes National Parks.  The operations of Glacier Park are
seasonal, typically running from mid-May until the end of September. During those months, Glacier and Waterton Lakes National Parks typically host over two million visitors, the vast majority of whom purchase services from Glacier Park. During the
peak months of July and August, the occupancy level at Glacier Park’s lodges and motor inns typically exceeds 90 percent. During the “shoulder” months of June and September, occupancy typically exceeds 80 percent. 
Individual travelers account for over 80 percent of Glacier Park’s customers, and the balance of its customers are tour groups.
Demographically, Glacier Park draws over 90 percent of its customers from the United States, with approximately 60 percent of them coming from the Northwest and Midwest regions. 
Historic Lodges and Hotel Accommodations. Glacier Park operates five lodges, three 1960s-era motor inns and one full-season resort
hotel, with accommodation offerings varying from hikers’ cabins to hotel suites. In January 2011, Glacier Park acquired Grouse Mountain Lodge, a 145-room resort hotel in Whitefish, Montana, which is near Glacier National Park. In June 2011,
Glacier Park acquired St. Mary Lodge & Resort, a 115-room hotel in St. Mary, Montana, which is located outside the east entrance to Glacier National Park.  Hospitality Services. Glacier Park has food and beverage operations providing services to lodging guests and park visitors. Glacier Park also has retail operations, including a camp store and gift
shops catering to lodging guests and park visitors.  Tour and Transportation Services. Glacier Park utilizes a fleet of
authentic 1930s red touring buses that have rollback canvas tops to conduct interpretive park tours throughout Glacier and Waterton Lakes National Parks, including tours of the scenic Going-to-the-Sun Road. 
Concession Business. Glacier Park operates the concession portion of its business under a concession contract with the U.S.
National Park Service (the “Park Service”) for Glacier National Park. Glacier Park’s original 25-year concession contract with the Park Service that was to expire on December 31, 2005, has been extended for seven one-year periods
and now expires on December 31, 2012. The Park Service, in its sole discretion, may continue extending Glacier Park’s concession contract in one-year increments beyond 2012. When this contract ultimately expires, Glacier Park will have the
opportunity to bid on a new concession contract. If Glacier Park does secure a new contract, possible terms would be for 10, 15 or 20 years. Glacier Park generated approximately 45 percent of its 2011 revenue through its concession contract for
services provided within Glacier National Park. If a new concessionaire is selected by the Park Service, Glacier Park’s remaining business would consist of its operations at Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta, Canada; East Glacier, Montana;
Whitefish, Montana and St. Mary, 
  3 


Table of Contents

Montana. In such a circumstance, Glacier Park would be entitled to an amount equal to its “possessory interest,” which generally means the value of the structures acquired or
constructed, fixtures installed and improvements made to the concession property at Glacier National Park during the term of the concession contract. Glacier Park owns Glacier Park Lodge in East Glacier, Montana; Grouse Mountain Lodge in Whitefish,
Montana and St. Mary Lodge & Resort in St. Mary, Montana. Glacier Park also owns the Prince of Wales Hotel in Waterton Lakes National Park, which is operated under a 42-year ground lease with the Canadian government running through
January 31, 2052. Glacier Park generated 19 percent of the Travel & Recreation Group’s 2011 segment operating income.  Alaskan Park Properties  On September 16, 2011, Alaskan Park
Properties, Inc., Viad’s wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired Denali Backcountry Lodge, with 42 guest rooms on six acres inside Denali National Park and Preserve, and Denali Cabins, with 46 guest cabins on six acres near the entrance to Denali
National Park and Preserve. The lodge operates day trips to its day trip lodge accessed by the scenic park road, a package tours sales and marketing program and daily motorcoach service between Anchorage and Denali National Park and Preserve.
Alaskan Park Properties’ operations leverage Viad’s full-service hospitality operational expertise and expand Viad’s national park footprint into Alaska. Full-service operations of Alaskan Park Properties will begin in 2012 and it is
anticipated that the operations will be seasonal, running from early June until the end of September.  Competition. The
Travel & Recreation Group generally competes on the basis of location, uniqueness of facilities, service, quality and price. Competition exists both locally and regionally in the package tour business, hotel and restaurant business and
charter service business.  Recent Business Developments 
Over the past several years, Viad has made acquisitions and strategic investments to grow its business. In 2011, the Travel &
Recreation Group acquired two properties near Glacier National Park (the St. Mary Lodge & Resort and Grouse Mountain Lodge), one property inside Denali National Park and Preserve (Denali Backcountry Lodge) and one property near the entrance
to Denali National Park and Preserve (Denali Cabins).  Viad has also reorganized its structure and operations and rebranded
its services. In July 2009, Viad announced a strategic reorganization to align operations into two groups: the Marketing & Events Group and the Travel & Recreation Group. The two groups are described above. On the
close of business on December 31, 2009, the operations of the Marketing & Events U.S. segment were combined into Global Experience Specialists, Inc. (such operations being formerly known as GES Exposition Services, Inc.,
Exhibitgroup/Giltspur and The Becker Group). On February 2, 2010, the Marketing & Events Group introduced “Global Experience Specialists” as its new brand which is used in connection with all of the Marketing &
Events Group’s services, replacing the “GES Exposition Services,” “Exhibitgroup/Giltspur” and “Becker Group” brands. During 2011, Viad streamlined its operations by consolidating its leased facilities in San
Francisco, California and Chicago, Illinois. The consolidation was part of an effort to optimize the Marketing & Events Group’s U.S. service delivery network.  Most recently, on March 7, 2012, Viad acquired the Banff International Hotel and related assets for $23.5 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. The Banff International Hotel is a 162-guest
room commercial hotel located in Banff, Alberta, Canada.  Intellectual Property 
Viad and its subsidiaries own or have the right to use registered trademarks and trademarks pending registration, used
in their businesses, including Global Experience Specialists, GES®, ExhibitSelect®, GES Servicenter®, GES National
Servicenter®, HANG:RZ®, Trade Show
Electrical®, Trade Show Rigging TSR®, TSE Trade Show Electrical & design®, ethnoMetrics®,
EMAX®, DEXZ®, WAM! The Wireless
Ambassador®, LUMA2 & design® and ecosense and design. Viad and its subsidiaries also own or have the right to use many registered trademarks and trademarks pending registration outside of
the United States, including the Melville lion image, GES Worldwide Network®, GES,
Maxim®, Emax®, Showtech, SDDRetail and the trademarks associated with Brewster’s rebranding in 2010, including Brewster Travel Canada & design,
Brewster Attractions Explore & design, Brewster Hospitality Refresh & design and escape.connect.refresh.explore. United States trademark registrations are for a term of ten years and are renewable every ten
years as long as the trademarks are used in the regular course of business.  The Company owns a number of patents for exhibit
technology and exhibit processes that are cumulatively important to its business and that it believes provide competitive advantages in the marketplace for designing and building exhibits. These include patents relating to modular furniture used in
exhibits and displays and a modular structure having a load-bearing surface. The Company also owns a number of design patents for its retail merchandising units. United States utility patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the
date a patent application is filed and United States design patents are currently granted for a term of 14 years from the date granted. The Marketing & Events Group has extensive design libraries with copyright protections and owns
copyright registrations for a number of the designs within its design libraries. Copyright protection for such work is 95 years from the date of publication or 120 years from creation, whichever is shorter. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Although Viad believes that certain of its trademarks, patents and copyrights have
substantial value, it does not believe that the loss of any one of these patents, trademarks or copyrights would have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. 
Government Regulation 
Compliance with legal requirements and government regulations represents a normal cost of doing business. The principal regulations
affecting the day-to-day businesses are rules and regulations relating to transportation (such as regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Transportation and its state counterparts), employees (such as regulations implemented by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, equal employment opportunity laws, guidelines implemented pursuant to the Americans with Disabilities Act and general federal and state employment laws), unionized labor (such as guidelines imposed by
the National Labor Relations Act) and U.S. and Canadian regulations relating to national parks (such as regulations established by the U.S. Department of the Interior and the U.S. National Park Service). 
Employees  Viad’s
businesses had approximately 3,510 employees as of December 31, 2011 as follows:   












 
  
 
 
  
Regular Full-Time
 

 
  
Approximate
 
  
Employees Covered by
 

 
  
Number of
 
  
Collective Bargaining
 

 
  
Employees
 
  
Agreements
 

 Marketing & Events Group
  
 
3,010
  
  
 
1,060
  

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
350
  
  
 
80
  
 Viad believes that relations with its employees are satisfactory and that collective-bargaining
agreements expiring in 2012 will be renegotiated in the ordinary course of business without a material adverse effect on Viad’s operations.  Viad’s Corporate Services Group had 149 employees as of December 31, 2011 providing management, financial and accounting, internal auditing, tax, administrative, information technology, human
resources, corporate development, legal and other services to its operating units and handling residual matters pertaining to businesses previously discontinued or sold by the Company. Viad is governed by a Board of Directors comprised of nine
non-employee directors and one employee director and has an executive management team consisting of ten executive officers (including the CEO, who is also an employee director, and the president of each operating group). 
Seasonality  Exhibition
and event activity varies significantly depending on the frequency and timing of shows (some shows are not held each year and some may shift between quarters). The Marketing & Events U.S. segment generally reports its highest revenues
during the first quarter of each year, while the Marketing & Events International segment generally reports its highest revenues during the second quarter of each year. The Travel & Recreation Group segment experiences peak
activity during the summer months and 87 percent of revenues are earned in the second and third quarters. Viad’s average segment operating income during the past three years, as a percentage of the average full year’s segment operating
income during the past three years, was approximately 54 percent (first quarter), 62 percent (second quarter), 29 percent (third quarter) and minus 45 percent (fourth quarter). See “Risk Factors – Viad’s businesses are seasonal, which
causes results of operations to fluctuate and makes results of operations particularly sensitive to adverse events during peak periods” and “Risk Factors – Exhibition rotation impacts overall profitability and makes comparisons
between periods difficult” in Item 1A, which are incorporated herein by reference; see also Notes 20 and 23 of notes to consolidated financial statements.  Financial Information about Restructuring Charges  Information regarding
restructuring charges is provided in Note 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements.  Financial Information about Segments
 Business segment financial information is provided in Note 20 of notes to consolidated financial statements. 
Financial Information about Geographic Areas  Geographic area financial information is provided in Note 20 of notes to consolidated financial statements. 
  5 


Table of Contents
Available Information  Viad’s internet address is www.viad.com. Viad uses its web site as a routine channel for distribution of Company information, including press releases, financial information and corporate
governance initiatives. Viad posts filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Viad’s annual, quarterly and
current reports, proxy statements, amendments to those reports or statements, and other information, as well as transactions in Viad securities by Viad’s directors and executive officers. All such postings and filings are available on
Viad’s web site free of charge. In addition, Viad’s web site allows interested persons to sign up to automatically receive e-mail alerts when the Company posts news releases and financial information. The SEC’s web site,
www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information, regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Such information also can be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference section, located
in Room 1580, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 and on the SEC’s internet site at www.sec.gov. Information regarding the operation of the public reference section can be obtained by calling (800) SEC-0330. The content on any
web site referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.  Viad’s
web site, at www.viad.com/investors/corp_governance.html, includes key information about the Company’s corporate governance initiatives, including its Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters of the committees of the Board of Directors,
Code of Ethics and information concerning Viad’s directors and a method to communicate with them. Viad will make available in print any of this information upon request to: Corporate Secretary, Viad Corp, 1850 North Central Avenue, Suite 1900,
Phoenix, Arizona 85004-4565.   


Item 1A.
Risk Factors.  Viad’s operating results are subject to known and unknown risks. As a result, past financial performance and historical trends may not be reliable indicators of future performance. 
Viad’s businesses and operating results are adversely affected by deterioration in general economic conditions.
 Viad’s businesses are sensitive to fluctuations in general economic conditions and are impacted by increases and
decreases in the cost of materials and operating supplies. Operating results for the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments depend largely on the number of exhibitions held and on the size of exhibitors’ marketing
expenditures, which in turn depend partly on the strength of particular industries in which exhibitors operate. The number and size of exhibitions generally decrease when the economy weakens. 
Further, many exhibitors’ marketing budgets are partly discretionary, and are frequently among the first expenditures reduced by
exhibitors when economic conditions deteriorate, resulting in reduced spending by exhibitors for the Company’s services. Marketing expenditures often are not increased until economic conditions improve. As a result, during periods of general
economic weakness, the operating results for the Marketing & Events Group are adversely affected. Similarly, many of the retail shopping mall and lifestyle center clients of the Marketing & Events Group may reduce marketing
expenditures when economic conditions deteriorate.  Revenues from the Travel & Recreation Group businesses depend
largely on the amount of disposable income that consumers have available for travel and vacations. This amount decreases during periods of weak general economic conditions.  Viad’s results of operations are impacted by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Viad conducts foreign operations primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom and, to a lesser extent, in certain other countries. The functional currency of Viad’s foreign subsidiaries is their local
currency. Accordingly, for purposes of consolidation, Viad translates the assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at the foreign exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The unrealized gains or losses
resulting from the translation of these foreign denominated assets and liabilities are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. Significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates
relative to the U.S. dollar may result in material changes to Viad’s net equity position reported in its consolidated balance sheets. Viad has not hedged its equity risk arising from the translation of foreign denominated assets and
liabilities.  In addition, for purposes of consolidation, the revenues, expenses and gains and losses related to Viad’s
foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average foreign exchange rates for the period. As a result, Viad’s consolidated results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, even when the functional
currency amounts have not changed. Accordingly, fluctuations in the exchange rates affect overall profitability and historical period to period comparisons. Viad has not hedged its net earnings exposure arising from the translation of its foreign
operating results.  During 2011, $156.2 million of revenue and $6.9 million of segment operating income was derived through
Canadian and United Kingdom operations of Viad’s Marketing & Events International segment. In addition, $71.7 million of 2011 revenue and $17.4 million of 2011 segment operating income generated in the Travel & Recreation
Group was derived through 
  6 


Table of Contents

its Canadian operations. For this segment, Canadian operations are largely dependent on foreign customer visitation, and accordingly, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to
other currencies could adversely affect customer volumes, and therefore, revenue and segment operating income in the Travel & Recreation Group.  Exhibition rotation impacts overall profitability and makes comparisons between periods difficult.  The business activities of the Marketing & Events Group are largely dependent upon the frequency, timing and location of exhibitions and events. Some large exhibitions are not held annually (they
may be held once every two or three years or longer). Some large exhibitions may be held at a different time of year than when they have historically been held. In addition, the same exhibition may be held in different locations in different years,
and may result in Viad generating lower margins in a given period if the exhibition shifts to a higher-cost city.  As a
consequence of these factors, the operating results for these businesses may fluctuate significantly from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year, making periodic comparisons difficult. 
Viad’s businesses are adversely affected by disruptions in the travel industry, particularly those adversely affecting the
hotel and airline industries.  The success of Viad’s businesses depends largely on the ability and willingness of
people, whether exhibitors, exhibition attendees or others, to travel. Factors adversely affecting the travel industry as a whole, and particularly the airline and hotel industries, generally also adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results
of operations. Factors that could adversely affect the travel industry as a whole include high or rising fuel prices, increased security and passport requirements, weather conditions, airline accidents and international political instability and
hostilities. Unexpected events of this nature, or other events that may have an impact on the availability and pricing of air travel and accommodations, could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and results of operations. 
The failure of a large client to renew its services contract or the loss of business from convention facilities could adversely
impact revenues.  Although no single client accounts for more than seven percent of the revenue of any of Viad’s
reporting segments, the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments have a relatively small number of large exhibition show organizers and large customer accounts. The loss of any of these large clients would adversely affect
Viad’s results of operations.  In addition, revenues of the Marketing & Events Group may be significantly
impacted if certain exhibition facilities choose to in-source electrical, plumbing or other services. When the Marketing & Events Group is hired as the official services contractor for an exhibition, the show organizer contractually grants
an exclusive right to perform these electrical and plumbing services, subject in each case to the exhibition facility’s option to in-source the services (either by performing the services themselves or by hiring a separate service provider).
Many exhibition facilities are under financial pressure as a result of conditions generally affecting their industry, including an increased supply of exhibitions space. As a result, some of these facilities have sought to in-source all or a large
portion of these services. If a large number of facilities with which the Marketing & Events Group has these relationships moves these services in-house, Viad’s revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. 
Viad’s key businesses are relationship driven. 
The business activities of the Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments are heavily focused on client relationships,
and, specifically, on the close collaboration and interaction with the client. These relationships require the account team to become attuned to the client’s desires and expectations in order to provide top-quality service. Viad has in the past
lost, and may in the future lose, important clients (and corresponding revenues) if a key member of the account team were to cease employment with the Company and take that customer to a competitor. 
Completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned. 
Viad has acquired businesses and intends to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses that could complement, enhance or
expand Viad’s current businesses or offer growth opportunities to Viad. Any acquisition can involve a number of risks, including: the failure to achieve the financial and strategic goals and other benefits from the acquisition; the inability to
successfully integrate the acquired business into Viad’s ongoing businesses; the inability to retain key personnel or customers of the acquired business; the inability to successfully integrate financial reporting and internal control systems;
the disruption of Viad’s ongoing businesses and distraction of senior management and employees of Viad from other opportunities and challenges due to the integration of the acquired business; and the potential existence of liabilities or
contingencies not disclosed to or known by Viad prior to closing the acquisition or not otherwise provided for through the purchase agreement. 
  7 


Table of Contents
Viad’s businesses are seasonal, which causes results of operations to fluctuate
and makes results of operations particularly sensitive to adverse events during peak periods.  The
Marketing & Events U.S. segment generally reports its highest revenues during the first quarter of each year, while the Marketing & Events International segment generally reports its highest revenues during the second quarter of
each year. The Travel & Recreation Group businesses are also seasonal, experiencing peak activity during the second and third quarters; these quarters accounted for 87 percent of the segment’s 2011 revenues. Because of the seasonal
nature of Viad’s businesses, adverse events or conditions occurring during peak periods could reduce the operating results of Viad’s businesses.  Transportation disruptions and increases in transportation costs could adversely affect Viad’s businesses and operating results. 
The Marketing & Events U.S. and International segments rely on independent transportation carriers to send materials and
exhibits to and from exhibitions, warehouse facilities and customer facilities. If they were unable to secure the services of these independent transportation carriers at favorable rates, it could have a material adverse effect on these businesses
and their results of operations. In addition, disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts or other events could adversely affect their ability to supply services to customers and could cause the
cancellation of exhibitions, which may have a material adverse effect on these businesses and operating results. Similarly, disruption of transportation services could adversely affect the ability of the Marketing & Events Group to supply
time-sensitive holiday-themed exhibits and experiences to retail shopping mall and lifestyle center customers and could cause the cancellation of the exhibits and experiences.  Union-represented labor creates an increased risk of work stoppages and higher labor costs.  A significant portion of Viad’s employees are unionized and Viad’s businesses are party to approximately 100 collective-bargaining agreements, with approximately one-third requiring
renegotiation each year. If the results of labor negotiations caused the Company to increase wages or benefits, which increases total labor costs, the increased costs could either be absorbed (which would adversely affect operating margins) or
passed on to the customers, which may lead customers to turn to other vendors in response to higher prices. In either event, Viad’s businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected. 
Moreover, if the Company were unable to reach an agreement with a union during the collective-bargaining process, the union may strike or
carry out other types of work stoppages. In such a circumstance, Viad might be unable to find substitute workers with the necessary skills to perform many of the services, or may incur additional costs to do so, which could adversely affect the
Company’s businesses and results of operations.  Obligations to fund multi-employer pension plans to which Viad
contributes may have an adverse impact on operating results.  Viad’s businesses contribute to various
multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective-bargaining agreements covering its union-represented employees. Viad’s contributions to these multi-employer plans in 2011 and 2010 totaled $19.6 million and $15.3
million, respectively. Viad does not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees. Based upon the information available to Viad from plan administrators, management believes that several of these
multi-employer plans are underfunded. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires pension plans underfunded at certain levels to reduce, over defined time periods, the underfunded status. In addition, under current laws, the termination of a plan,
or a voluntary withdrawal from a plan by Viad, or a shrinking contribution base to a plan as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other contributing employers to such plan would require Viad to make payments to such plan for its proportionate
share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Viad cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, it may be required to make to these plans. However, plan contribution increases, if any, could have an adverse impact
on Viad’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Viad competes in competitive
industries and increased competition could negatively impact operating results.  Viad is engaged in a number of highly
competitive industries. Competition in the exhibition and events industry and the exhibits and experiential environments industries is driven by price and service quality, among other factors. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain their
market presence through aggressive underpricing strategies, Viad may be required to lower its prices and rates to avoid loss of related business, thereby adversely affecting operating results. In addition, if Viad is unable to anticipate and respond
as effectively as competitors to changing business conditions, including new technologies and business models, Viad could lose market share to its competitors. If Viad were unable to meet the challenges presented by the competitive environment,
results of operations could be adversely affected. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Liabilities relating to prior and discontinued operations may adversely affect results
of operations.  Viad and its predecessors have a corporate history spanning over seven decades and involving
approximately 2,400 previous subsidiaries in diverse businesses, such as the manufacturing of locomotives, buses, industrial chemicals, fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, leather, textiles, food and fresh meats. Some of these businesses used raw
materials that have been, and may continue to be, the subject of litigation. Moreover, some of the raw materials used and the waste produced by these businesses have been and are the subject of U.S. federal and state environmental regulations,
including laws enacted under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or its state law counterparts. In addition, Viad may incur other liabilities, resulting from indemnification claims involving sold subsidiaries,
as well as from past operations of those of predecessors or their subsidiaries. Although the Company believes it has adequate reserves and sufficient insurance coverage to cover these future liabilities, results of operations could be materially
affected if future events or proceedings contradict current assumptions, and reserves or insurance become inadequate. 
Terrorist attacks, natural disasters or other catastrophic events may have a negative effect on Viad’s business.
 The occurrence of catastrophic events ranging from natural disasters (such as hurricanes), health epidemics or
pandemics, acts of war or terrorism, or the prospect of these events could disrupt Viad’s businesses. Such catastrophic events could impact the Company’s production facilities preventing Viad from timely completing exhibit fabrication and
other projects for customers, and also could cause a disruption in the services the Company provides to its customers at convention centers, exhibition halls, hotels and other public venues. Such catastrophic events also could cause a cancellation
of exhibitions and other events held in public venues. If the conditions arising from such events persist or worsen, Viad could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on its results of operations and financial condition. 
 


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments.  None.   


Item 2.
Properties.   Viad’s businesses operate service or production facilities and maintain sales and service offices in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany and the United Arab Emirates. The principal
properties of Viad’s businesses as of December 31, 2011 were:  Viad’s headquarters, which approximate 24,700
square feet, are located at 1850 North Central Avenue, Suite 1900 in Phoenix, Arizona 85004-4565.  The Marketing &
Events U.S. segment operates 16 offices and 27 multi-use facilities (manufacturing, sales and design, office and/or warehouse and truck marshaling yards). The multi-use facilities vary in size up to approximately 590,900 square feet. Three of the
multi-use facilities are owned; all other properties are leased.  The Marketing & Events International segment
operates four offices and 21 multi-use facilities, with three offices and nine multi-use facilities in Canada, eight multi-use facilities in the United Kingdom, two multi-use facilities in Germany and one office and two multi-use facilities in the
United Arab Emirates. The multi-use facilities vary in size up to approximately 134,000 square feet. One of the multi-use facilities is owned; all other properties are leased.  The Travel & Recreation Group segment operates four offices, 16 retail stores, one bus terminal, three garages, an icefield tour facility, a gondola lift operation, a boat tour facility, 12
hotels/lodges (with approximately 1,200 rooms and ancillary foodservice and recreational facilities) and 46 guest cabins. All of the facilities are in the United States or Canada. Seven of the hotels/lodges and the 46 guest cabins are owned and the
five other hotels/lodges are operated pursuant to concessionaire agreements. One bus terminal, three garages and the boat tour facility are owned and one garage is leased. The icefield tour facility and gondola lift operation are operated through
lease agreements with Parks Canada and all other properties are leased.  Management believes that the Company’s
facilities in the aggregate are adequate and suitable for their purposes and that capacity is sufficient for current needs.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings.  Viad and certain subsidiaries are plaintiffs or defendants to various actions, proceedings and pending claims, some of which involve, or may involve, compensatory, punitive or other damages. Litigation is
subject to many uncertainties and it is possible that some of the legal actions, proceedings or claims could be decided against Viad. Although the amount of liability as of December 31, 2011 with respect to certain of these matters is not
ascertainable, Viad believes that any resulting liability, after taking into consideration amounts already provided for and insurance coverage, will not have a material effect on Viad’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

  9 


Table of Contents
Viad is subject to various U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing
the prevention of pollution and the protection of the environment in the jurisdictions in which Viad has or had operations. If the Company has failed to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, civil and criminal penalties could be
imposed and Viad could become subject to regulatory enforcement actions in the form of injunctions and cease and desist orders. As is the case with many companies, Viad also faces exposure for actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving
environmental matters relating to its past operations. Although it is a party to certain environmental disputes, Viad believes that any resulting liabilities, after taking into consideration amounts already provided for and insurance coverage, will
not have a material effect on the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures.  None.   


Other.
Executive Officers of Registrant.  The names, ages and positions of Viad’s executive officers as of the filing of this Annual Report, are listed below:   










 Name
  
 Age
 
  

Business Experience During the Past Five Years and Other Information

Paul B. Dykstra
  
 
50
  
  
President and Chief Executive Officer since April 2006. Previously Chief Operating Officer since January 2006; prior thereto, President and Chief Executive Officer of GES since
January 2000; prior thereto, Executive Vice President-International and Corporate Development of GES since 1999; and prior thereto, Executive Vice President-General Manager or similar executive positions since 1994 with Travelers Express Company,
Inc., a former subsidiary of Viad.





 Deborah J. DePaoli
  
 
47
  
  
General Counsel and Secretary since May 2011; prior thereto, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary since 2009; prior thereto, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant
Secretary since 2004; prior thereto, held other attorney positions since joining Viad in 2000; prior thereto, Vice President and General Counsel, Outings on the Links, Inc. since 1996; and prior thereto, Senior Associate and various legal positions
with Gallagher & Kennedy, P.A. since 1991.





 Michael M. Hannan
  
 
46
  
  
President of the Travel & Recreation Group since July 2009 and President of Brewster since December 2008; prior thereto, Executive Vice President of Gibralt Capital
Corporation, a real estate investment firm focusing on Canada and the United States, from July 2008 to November 2008; prior thereto, independent consultant providing business strategy, corporate development and financial advice to companies in
British Columbia, Canada since January 2007; prior thereto, Executive Vice President of Intrawest ULC, a leader in the development and management of experiential destination resorts, since May 2002; prior thereto, Chief Executive Officer of Versatel
Internet Group, an internet service provider, from February 2000 to December 2001; and prior thereto, Chief Financial Officer of UUNET Canada and Latin America, an internet service provider, since May 1996.





 George N. Hines
  
 
39
  
  
Chief Information Officer since December 2009; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Transitioning Chief Information Officer of Stream Global Services, Inc., a business
process outsource provider, since October 2009; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of eTelecare Global Solutions, Inc. (merged into Stream Global Services, Inc.) since August 2007; prior thereto, Chief Information
Officer of PeopleSupport, Inc., a business process outsource provider, since December 2005; prior thereto, Executive Vice President, Operations and Chief Technology Officer of ChaseCom Limited Partnership, a provider of customer contact center
services, since August 2004; prior thereto, Senior Manager–Telecommunications Industry Practice of Deloitte Consulting LLP since April 2000; and prior thereto, Manager – Telecommunications Industry Practice of Ernst & Young LLP from
July 1996 to March 2000.

  10 


Table of Contents










 Name
  
 Age
 
  
 Business Experience During the Past Five Years and Other Information

 Ellen M. Ingersoll
  
 
47
  
  
Chief Financial Officer since July 2002; prior thereto, Vice President-Controller or similar position since January 2002; prior thereto, Controller of CashX, Inc., a service
provider of stored value internet cards, from June 2001 through October 2001; prior thereto, Operations Finance Director of LeapSource, Inc., a provider of business process outsourcing, since January 2000; and prior thereto, Vice President and
Controller of Franchise Finance Corporation of America since May 1992.





 Thomas M. Kuczynski
  
 
47
  
  
Chief Corporate Development & Strategy Officer since March 2008; prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Corporate Development & Planning of The Nielsen Company, a media
and marketing information company, since August 2006; prior thereto, Managing Director of The Pareto Group, a provider of strategic and investment advisory services, since January 2004; and prior thereto, Vice President of Penton Media, a business
media firm producing magazines, trade shows, conferences and electronic media, from January 1999 to October 2003.





 G. Michael Latta
  
 
49
  
  
Chief Accounting Officer - Controller since November 2002; prior thereto, Corporate Controller or similar position for SpeedFam-IPEC, Inc., a semiconductor equipment
manufacturer, since October 1999; and prior thereto, Controller for Cardiac Pathways Corporation, a medical device manufacturer, since September 1994.





 Steven W. Moster
  
 
42
  
  
President of GES since November 1, 2010; prior thereto, independent consultant providing marketing and sales consultation services to 3 Day Blinds Corporation, a manufacturer and
retailer of custom window coverings, from April 2010 to August 2010; prior thereto, Executive Vice President - Chief Sales & Marketing Officer of GES from January 2008 to February 2010; prior thereto, Executive Vice President - Products and
Services of GES from January 2005 to February 2010; prior thereto Vice-President, Products & Services Business of GES from January 2004 to January 2005; and prior thereto, Engagement Manager, Management Strategy Consulting for McKinsey &
Company from August 2000 to January 2004.





 Cindy J. Ognjanov
  
 
62
  
  
President and General Manager of Glacier Park since October 2002; prior thereto, co-owner of Omnidine, Inc., a food service consulting firm from April 1999 to October 2002; and
prior thereto, rooms and operations manager for Glacier Park from April 1992 through July 1998.





 David C. Robertson
  
 
46
  
  
Chief Human Resources Officer since August 2010; prior thereto, Senior Vice President of Human Resources, North America & Asia Pacific, of Insight Enterprises, a global
provider of technology solutions, from October 2006 to August 2010; prior thereto, Senior Director of Human Resources, Aerospace Global Repair Services, of Honeywell International, a global diversified technology and manufacturing provider, from
July 2005 to October 2006; prior thereto, Director of Human Resources of Honeywell from September 2003 to June 2005; and prior thereto, Director of Human Resources of America Online, Inc., a global web services company, from February 1999 to August
2003.
 The term of office of the executive officers is until the next annual organization meeting of the Board
of Directors of Viad which is scheduled for May 15, 2012. 
  11 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
The principal market on which Viad’s common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The common stock is also admitted for
trading on the Chicago and National Exchanges. The following tables summarize the high and low market prices as reported on the NYSE Euronext Composite Tape and the cash dividends declared for the two years ended December 31: 
SALES PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK   




















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 First Quarter
  
$
26.78
  
  
$
19.82
  
  
$
21.87
  
  
$
17.33
  

 Second Quarter
  
$
26.00
  
  
$
19.35
  
  
$
25.40
  
  
$
17.61
  

 Third Quarter
  
$
23.02
  
  
$
15.77
  
  
$
20.76
  
  
$
14.75
  

 Fourth Quarter
  
$
22.21
  
  
$
15.87
  
  
$
27.34
  
  
$
17.71
  
 DIVIDENDS DECLARED ON COMMON STOCK 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 February
  
$
0.04
  
  
$
0.04
  

 May
  
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.04
  

 August
  
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.04
  

 December
  
 
0.04
  
  
 
0.04
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
0.16
  
  
$
0.16
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Regular quarterly dividends were paid on Viad common stock on the first business day of January, April,
July and October. The terms of Viad’s $130 million secured revolving credit facility, as amended as of May 18, 2011, restrict Viad from paying more than $10 million in dividends in the aggregate in any calendar year. 
As of January 31, 2012, there were 7,724 shareholders of record of Viad’s common stock following the one-for-four reverse stock
split effective on July 1, 2004. There also were 1,082 shareholders of record as of January 31, 2012 that had not converted pre-split shares into the post-split common stock. Accordingly, there were a total of 8,806 shareholders of record
as of January 31, 2012.  For information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and
related shareholder matters, refer to Part III, Item 12, “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” in this Annual Report. 
SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH  Set forth below is a line graph comparing, for the five year period ended December 31, 2011, the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total shareholder return on Viad’s common stock to the
cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Media Index, Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Commercial Services & Supplies Index, Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Index, Russell 2000
Index and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The graph below assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2006 in
Viad common stock, Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Media Index, Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Commercial Services & Supplies Index, Standard & Poor’s SmallCap 600 Index, Russell 2000 Index and
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with reinvestment of all dividends. 
  12 


Table of Contents
Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return 
  

  




























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2006
 
  
2007
 
  
2008
 
  
2009
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 

 Viad Corp
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
78.12
  
  
$
61.52
  
  
$
51.80
  
  
$
64.44
  
  
$
44.57
  

 S&P 500
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
105.48
  
  
$
66.40
  
  
$
83.87
  
  
$
96.37
  
  
$
98.22
  

 Russell 2000
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
98.44
  
  
$
65.16
  
  
$
82.82
  
  
$
105.00
  
  
$
100.54
  

 S&P SmallCap 600
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
99.70
  
  
$
68.71
  
  
$
86.24
  
  
$
108.88
  
  
$
109.92
  

 S&P 600 Comm. Services & Supplies
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
93.61
  
  
$
73.79
  
  
$
93.11
  
  
$
108.68
  
  
$
94.99
  

 S&P 600 Media Index
  
$
100.00
  
  
$
72.82
  
  
$
21.11
  
  
$
36.01
  
  
$
53.00
  
  
$
40.94
  
 Set forth below is a table showing that no shares of Viad common stock were repurchased during the fourth
quarter of 2011:  ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
 




















 Period
  
Total Number ofShares Purchased(#)
 
  
Average Price PaidPer Share ($)
 
  
Total Number ofShares Purchased asPart of PubliclyAnnounced Plans
orPrograms
 
  
Maximum Number (orApproximate DollarValue) of Shares thatMay Yet Be PurchasedUnder
the Plans orPrograms (1)
 

 None
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
53,621
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
53,621
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Viad has announced its intent to repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock from time to time at prevailing market prices. Viad purchased 250,760 shares for
$4.6 million during 2011, with an announced authority to repurchase a remaining 53,621 shares as of December 31, 2011. The authorization of the Board of Directors does not have an expiration date. The terms of Viad’s $130 million secured
revolving credit facility, as amended as of May 18, 2011, restrict the Company from repurchasing more than $10 million in the aggregate of the Company’s common stock in any calendar year. 
  13 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Financial Data.  VIAD CORP  SELECTED FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA 
 
























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Statement of Operations Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Revenues:
  



 



 



 



 




 Convention and event services (1)
  
$
670,054
  
 
$
590,444
  
 
$
582,969
  
 
$
804,546
  
 
$
719,930
  

 Exhibits and environments (1) (2)
  
 
170,496
  
 
 
166,040
  
 
 
147,533
  
 
 
229,694
  
 
 
199,549
  

 Travel and recreation services(3)
  
 
101,814
  
 
 
88,277
  
 
 
75,302
  
 
 
86,621
  
 
 
84,222
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
$
942,364
  
 
$
844,761
  
 
$
805,804
  
 
$
1,120,861
  
 
$
1,003,701
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations (4)
  
$
9,292
  
 
$
817
  
 
$
(104,808
) 
 
$
43,538
  
 
$
43,312
  

 Income from discontinued operations (5)
  
 
451
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
679
  
 
 
385
  
 
 
2,049
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
9,743
  
 
 
1,079
  
 
 
(104,129
) 
 
 
43,923
  
 
 
45,361
  

 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
(533 
) 
 
 
(636 
) 
 
 
(582 
) 
 
 
(550 
) 
 
 
(764 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
9,210
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
(104,711
) 
 
$
43,373
  
 
$
44,597
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted Income (Loss) per Common Share
  



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad common stockholders (4)
  
$
0.43
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
$
(5.28 
) 
 
$
2.08
  
 
$
2.04
  

 Income from discontinued operations attributable to Viad common stockholders (5)
  
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
0.03
  
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.45
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
(5.25 
) 
 
$
2.10
  
 
$
2.14
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average outstanding and potentially dilutive common shares
  
 
20,055
  
 
 
20,277
  
 
 
19,960
  
 
 
20,493
  
 
 
20,886
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic Income (Loss) per Common Share
  



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad common stockholders (4)
  
$
0.43
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
$
(5.28 
) 
 
$
2.08
  
 
$
2.04
  

 Income from discontinued operations attributable to Viad common stockholders (5)
  
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
0.03
  
 
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.10
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.45
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
(5.25 
) 
 
$
2.10
  
 
$
2.14
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average outstanding common shares
  
 
19,719
  
 
 
19,955
  
 
 
19,960
  
 
 
20,172
  
 
 
20,423
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance Sheet Data at Year-End
  



 



 



 



 




 Total assets
  
$
617,828
  
 
$
616,503
  
 
$
609,186
  
 
$
729,404
  
 
$
781,363
  

 Total debt and capital lease obligations
  
 
3,239
  
 
 
9,077
  
 
 
12,788
  
 
 
12,643
  
 
 
14,176
  

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
386,179
  
 
 
386,711
  
 
 
384,631
  
 
 
467,089
  
 
 
475,829
  

 Other Data
  



 



 



 



 




 Adjusted EBITDA(6)
  
$
43,284
  
 
$
32,312
  
 
$
12,793
  
 
$
104,702
  
 
$
86,355
  
  


(1) 
 2007 amounts include $95.9 million in revenue from Melville which was acquired by Viad in February 2007. 


(2) 
 2008 amounts include $25.4 million in revenue from Becker Group which was acquired by Viad in January 2008. 


(3) 
 2011 amounts include $9.7 million in revenue from Grouse Mountain Lodge and St. Mary Lodge & Resort which were acquired by Viad in January
2011 and June 2011, respectively. 
  14 


Table of Contents


(4) 
 Income from continuing operations includes the following items (see Notes 3 and 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements):
  
























 
  
Year ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
2008
 
  
2007
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
  
 
 

 Restructuring charges, net of tax
  
$
2,453
  
  
$
2,613
  
  
$
8,677
  
  
$
317
  
  
$
835
  

 Restructuring charges per diluted share
  
$
0.12
  
  
$
0.13
  
  
$
0.43
  
  
$
0.02
  
  
$
0.04
  

 Impairment losses (recoveries), net of tax
  
$
—  
  
  
$
268
  
  
$
98,197
  
  
$
9,405
  
  
$
(105
) 

 Impairment losses (recoveries) per diluted share
  
$
—  
  
  
$
0.01
  
  
$
4.92
  
  
$
0.46
  
  
$
(0.01
) 
  


(5) 
 The 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008 amounts relate to certain obligations associated with previously sold operations. The 2007 amount primarily represents
the settlement of a real estate participation interest associated with a parcel of land sold by a discontinued operation. 


(6) 
 See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of
“Non-GAAP Measures.” 
  15 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Viad Corp’s consolidated financial statements and related notes. This
discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Viad Corp’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated due to various factors discussed under “Risk Factors,”
“Forward-Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this Annual Report.  Overview: 
Viad Corp (“Viad” or the “Company”) operates in three reportable business segments: Marketing & Events U.S.,
Marketing & Events International and Travel & Recreation Group.  The Marketing & Events Group,
comprised of Global Experience Specialists, Inc. and affiliates (“GES”), specializes in all aspects of the design, planning and production of face-to-face events, immersive environments and brand-based experiences for clients, including
show organizers, corporate brand marketers and retail shopping centers. In addition, the Marketing & Events Group provides a variety of immersive, entertaining attractions and brand-based experiences, sponsored events, mobile marketing and
other branded entertainment and face-to-face marketing solutions for clients and venues, including shopping malls, movie studios, museums, leading consumer brands and casinos.  The Travel & Recreation Group segment consists of Brewster Inc. (“Brewster”), Glacier Park, Inc. (“Glacier Park”) and Alaskan Park Properties, Inc. (“Alaskan Park
Properties”). Brewster provides tourism products and experiential services in the Canadian Rockies in Alberta and in other parts of Western Canada. Brewster’s operations include the Banff Gondola, Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure,
motorcoach services, charter and sightseeing services, tour boat operations, inbound package tour operations and hotel operations. Glacier Park operates five lodges, three motor inns and one four-season resort hotel and provides food and beverage
operations, retail operations and tour and transportation services in and around Glacier National Park in Montana and Waterton Lakes National Park in Alberta, Canada. Glacier Park is an 80 percent owned subsidiary of Viad. Alaskan Park Properties
operates the Denali Backcountry Lodge, which is the largest of three lodges located within Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska, and the Denali Cabins, which are located near the entrance to Denali National Park and Preserve. In addition to
lodging, Alaskan Park Properties also provides food and beverage operations and package tour and transportation services in and around Denali National Park and Preserve.  Financial Highlights  The following 2011 financial highlights are presented
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”):  Viad Corp
(Consolidated)   


 
•
 
 Total revenues of $942.4 million, an increase of 11.6 percent from 2010 revenues 
 


 
•
 
 Net income attributable to Viad of $9.2 million compared to $443,000 in 2010 
 


 
•
 
 Diluted income per share of $0.45 compared to $0.02 in 2010 
 


 
•
 
 Acquisitions of Grouse Mountain Lodge, St. Mary Lodge & Resort and Denali Backcountry Lodge and Denali Cabins for $10.5 million, $15.3 million
and $15.3 million, respectively   


 
•
 
 Restructuring charges totaling $3.8 million primarily related to reorganization activities in the Marketing & Events Group, comprised of the
elimination of certain positions and facility consolidations   


 
•
 
 Income from discontinued operations of $451,000 related to the reversal of certain liabilities associated with previously sold operations
  


 
•
 
 Cash and cash equivalents were $100.4 million as of December 31, 2011 
 


 
•
 
 Debt was $3.2 million as of December 31, 2011  Marketing & Events U.S.   


 
•
 
 Revenues of $631.4 million, an increase of 10.6 percent from 2010 revenues 
 


 
•
 
 Segment operating loss of $6.3 million, as compared to a loss of $15.2 million in 2010 
Marketing & Events International   


 
•
 
 Revenues of $218.6 million, an increase of 10.5 percent from 2010 revenues 
 


 
•
 
 Segment operating income of $11.4 million compared to $10.1 million in 2010 
  16 


Table of Contents
Travel & Recreation Group 
 


 
•
 
 Revenues of $101.8 million, an increase of 15.3 percent from 2010 revenues 
 


 
•
 
 Segment operating income of $20.2 million, as compared to $19.9 million in 2010 
Non-GAAP Measures:  The
following discussion includes a presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Income before impairment losses, which are utilized by management to measure the profit and performance of Viad’s operations and to facilitate period to period comparisons.
“Adjusted EBITDA” is defined by Viad as net income attributable to Viad before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, impairment losses and recoveries, changes in accounting principles and the effects of
discontinued operations. “Income before impairment losses” is defined by Viad as income from continuing operations before the after-tax effect of impairment losses related to goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived assets.
The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Income before impairment losses is supplemental to results presented under GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is considered a useful operating
metric as potential variations arising from taxes, depreciation, debt service costs, impairment losses and recoveries, changes in accounting principles and the effects of discontinued operations are eliminated, thus resulting in an additional
measure considered to be indicative of Viad’s ongoing operations. Income before impairment losses is utilized by management to review operating results of the business without the effects of non-cash impairment losses. These non-GAAP measures
should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP.  Management believes that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA and Income before impairment losses provides useful information to investors regarding Viad’s results of operations for trending,
analyzing and benchmarking the performance and value of Viad’s business. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA and Income before impairment losses primarily as performance measures and believes that the GAAP financial measures most directly
comparable to these non-GAAP measures are net income attributable to Viad and income from continuing operations attributable to Viad, respectively. Although Adjusted EBITDA is used as a financial measure to assess the performance of the business,
the use of Adjusted EBITDA is limited because it does not consider material costs, expenses and other items necessary to operate the business. These items include debt service costs, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense associated with
long-lived assets, expenses related to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes, impairment losses or recoveries, and the effects of accounting changes and discontinued operations. Similarly, although Income before impairment losses is
used as a financial measure to assess the performance of the business, its use is limited because it does not consider non-cash goodwill, other intangible assets and other long-lived asset impairment losses. Because Adjusted EBITDA and Income before
impairment losses do not consider the above items, a user of Viad’s financial information should consider net income attributable to Viad and income from continuing operations attributable to Viad as important measures of financial performance
because they provide more complete measures of the Company’s performance.  A reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net
income (loss) attributable to Viad is as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Adjusted EBITDA
  
$
43,284
  
 
$
32,312
  
 
$
12,793
  

 Impairment losses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(302 
) 
 
 
(116,863
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
(1,511 
) 
 
 
(1,835 
) 
 
 
(1,690 
) 

 Income taxes
  
 
(3,888 
) 
 
 
(1,742 
) 
 
 
28,639
  

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
(29,126
) 
 
 
(28,252
) 
 
 
(28,269 
) 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
451
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
9,210
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
(104,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The increase in Adjusted EBITDA of $11.0 million from 2010 to 2011 was primarily due to higher segment
operating results in the Marketing & Events Group. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA of $19.5 million from 2009 to 2010 was primarily driven by higher segment operating results at all operating segments and lower restructuring charges. See
“Results of Operations” below for a discussion of fluctuations. 
  17 


Table of Contents
A reconciliation of income (loss) before impairment losses attributable to Viad to income
(loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad is as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Income (loss) before impairment losses attributable to Viad
  
$
8,759
  
  
$
449
  
 
$
(7,193
) 

 Impairment losses, net of tax(1)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(268
) 
 
 
(98,197
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
8,759
  
  
$
181
  
 
$
(105,390
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 (1)   Includes income tax benefits of $34,000 and $18.7 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Results of Operations:  2011 vs.
2010:  Revenues for 2011 increased 11.6 percent to $942.4 million compared to $844.8 million in 2010. Viad’s
income from continuing operations before income taxes was $13.2 million for 2011 compared to $2.6 million in 2010. These increases were primarily due to higher revenues from the Marketing & Events Group. Net restructuring charges in 2011
were $3.8 million compared to $4.2 million in 2010, both primarily related to the Marketing & Events Group. Impairment losses for 2010 were $268,000 (after-tax), or $0.01 per diluted share. The Company did not record any impairment losses
in 2011.  Net income attributable to Viad for 2011 was $9.2 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, compared to $443,000, or
$0.02 per diluted share, in 2010. These results include income from discontinued operations of $451,000, or $0.02 per diluted share, in 2011 and $262,000, or $0.01 per diluted share, in 2010 relating to obligations associated with previously sold
operations.  During 2011, foreign exchange rate variances resulted in increases in revenues and segment operating income of
$14.1 million and $1.7 million, respectively, as compared to 2010. Viad conducts its foreign operations primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom and to a lesser extent in certain other countries. The following table summarizes the effects of
foreign exchange rate variances on revenues and segment operating results from Viad’s significant international operations:   




























 
  
Revenues
 
  
Segment Operating Results
 

 
  
Weighted-AverageExchange Rates
 
  
Effect of RateVariance
 
  
Weighted-AverageExchange Rates
 
  
Effect of RateVariance
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(thousands)
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
(thousands)
 

 Marketing & Events Group:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Canada
  
$
1.01
  
  
$
0.97
  
  
$
3,141
  
  
$
1.00
  
  
$
0.98
  
  
$
(27
) 

 United Kingdom
  
$
1.61
  
  
$
1.54
  
  
$
5,684
  
  
$
1.61
  
  
$
1.52
  
  
$
445
  

 Travel & Recreation Group:
  



  



  



  



  



  




 Canada
  
$
1.02
  
  
$
0.96
  
  
$
4,300
  
  
$
1.03
  
  
$
0.94
  
  
$
1,344
  
 Accordingly, Viad’s results were impacted by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar and British
pound relative to the U.S. dollar. Future changes in the exchange rates may impact overall expected profitability and historical period to period comparisons when operating results are translated into U.S. dollars. 
Marketing & Events Group. Revenues for the Marketing & Events U.S. segment were $631.4 million for 2011, up
10.6 percent compared to $571.0 million in 2010. The increase was primarily due to base same-show revenue increases of 11.2 percent, increased exhibitor spending, new business wins and positive show rotation of approximately $11 million.
Management defines base same-show revenue as revenue from exhibitions and events that occur in the same quarter and same city every year. Base same-shows represented 36.6 percent of Marketing & Events U.S. segment revenues in 2011. The
2011 segment operating loss was $6.3 million, compared to a loss of $15.2 million in 2010. The improved operating results were primarily the result of higher revenues, partially offset by higher accruals for performance-based incentives.
 Revenues for the Marketing & Events International segment were $218.6 million for 2011, up 10.5 percent
compared to $197.8 million in 2010. Segment operating income was $11.4 million in 2011, compared to $10.1 million in 2010. As discussed above, results in this segment were impacted by exchange rates during 2011, resulting in increases of
$9.8 million in revenue and $379,000 in segment operating income, as compared to 2010. Excluding exchange rate variances, 2011 revenues increased by $11.1 million, or 5.6 percent, and operating income increased by $982,000, or 9.7
percent. The increase in 
  18 


Table of Contents

revenues was primarily due to new show wins, positive show rotation of approximately $4 million and same-show growth, which more than offset 2010 first quarter revenues from a major project for
the 2010 Winter Olympic Games in Canada. Operating results for 2011 reflect higher compensation expenses, including merit increases and the elimination of temporary wage reductions, as compared to 2010. 
Although the Marketing & Events Group has a diversified revenue base and long-term contracts for future shows, its revenues are
affected by general economic and industry-specific conditions. The prospects for individual shows tend to be driven by the success of the industry related to those shows. In general, the exhibition and event industry is experiencing modest
improvement. Following quarterly declines from the third quarter of 2008 through the first quarter of 2010, Marketing & Events U.S. base same-show revenues were essentially flat in the 2010 second quarter and have increased in each of the
following six quarters.  For 2012, management expects U.S. same-show revenues to increase at a mid-single digit rate and that
show rotation will not have a meaningful impact on revenues as revenue from non-annual shows during 2012 is expected to be comparable to revenues from non-annual shows that took place during 2011. Additionally, management anticipates that foreign
currency exchange rate variances versus 2011 will have an unfavorable impact on the Marketing & Events Group’s 2012 revenues and operating income of approximately $9 million and $500,000, respectively. Management remains focused on
improving the profitability of the Marketing & Events U.S. segment through continued integration and consolidation of operations to increase capacity utilization and reduce costs. Consequently, management expects to record additional
restructuring charges of approximately $1.5 million in the first quarter of 2012 as a result of the continued reorganization activities. Additional restructuring charges may be incurred as further cost structure improvements are made. 
The Marketing & Events Group is subject to multiple collective-bargaining agreements that affect labor costs, about one-third of
which expire each year. Although labor relations between the Company and labor are currently stable, disruptions during future contract negotiations could occur, with the possibility of an adverse impact on the operating results of the
Marketing & Events Group.  Travel & Recreation Group. Revenues for the Travel & Recreation
Group segment were $101.8 million, up 15.3 percent compared to 2010 revenues of $88.3 million. Segment operating income was $20.2 million, up 1.6 percent from 2010 segment operating income of $19.9 million. Segment operating
margins were 19.8 percent in 2011 compared to 22.5 percent in 2010. As discussed above, results in this segment were impacted by exchange rate variances during 2011, resulting in increases of $4.3 million and $1.3 million in revenues and
segment operating income, respectively, as compared to 2010.  Excluding exchange rate variances, 2011 revenues increased by
$9.2 million, or 10.5 percent, primarily due to the acquisitions of St. Mary Lodge & Resort and Grouse Mountain Lodge, which are located near Glacier National Park, as well as organic revenue growth at Brewster. The Company acquired the
145-room Grouse Mountain Lodge on January 5, 2011 for $10.5 million in cash and the 115-room St. Mary Lodge & Resort on June 29, 2011 for $15.3 million in cash. Brewster realized growth across all of its lines of business with the
exception of its transportation business, which had higher 2010 revenues resulting from charter contracts related to the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. These improvements were partially offset by lower revenues from Many Glacier Hotel, a
property operated by Glacier Park, resulting from planned construction that reduced the number of rooms available during 2011 as compared to 2010, as well as lower visitation to Glacier National Park during July and August. 
Excluding exchange rate variances, 2011 segment operating income decreased by $1.0 million primarily due to the lower revenues at Many
Glacier Hotel (which have a high flow through to operating income) and the seasonal fourth quarter operating loss at Alaskan Park Properties. The Company acquired the 42-room Denali Backcountry Lodge and 46 Denali Cabins on September 16, 2011
for $15.3 million in cash.  During 2011, approximately 70 percent of revenue and 86 percent of segment operating income
generated in the Travel & Recreation Group segment were derived through its Canadian operations. These operations are largely affected by foreign customer visitation, and, accordingly, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar compared
to other currencies could adversely affect customer volumes, revenue and segment operating income for the Travel & Recreation Group.  Management anticipates that foreign currency exchange rate variances versus 2011 will have an unfavorable impact on Travel & Recreation Group segment 2012 revenues and operating income of
approximately $3 million and $1 million, respectively. Additionally, the Travel & Recreation Group segment is affected by consumer discretionary spending on tourism activities. 
Glacier Park operates the concession portion of its business under a concession contract with the U.S. National Park Service (the
“Park Service”) for Glacier National Park. Glacier Park’s original 25-year concession contract with the Park Service that was to expire on December 31, 2005, has been extended for seven one-year periods and now expires on

  19 


Table of Contents

December 31, 2012. The Park Service, in its sole discretion, may continue extending Glacier Park’s concession contract in one-year increments beyond 2012. When this contract ultimately
expires, Glacier Park will have the opportunity to bid on a new concession contract. If Glacier Park does secure a new contract, possible terms would be for 10, 15 or 20 years. Glacier Park generated approximately 45 percent of its 2011 revenue
through its concession contract for services provided within Glacier National Park. If a new concessionaire is selected by the Park Service, Glacier Park’s remaining business would consist of its operations at Waterton Lakes National Park,
Alberta, Canada; East Glacier, Montana; Whitefish, Montana and St. Mary, Montana. In such a circumstance, Glacier Park would be entitled to an amount equal to its “possessory interest,” which generally means the value of the structures
acquired or constructed, fixtures installed and improvements made to the concession property at Glacier National Park during the term of the concession contract. Glacier Park owns Glacier Park Lodge in East Glacier, Montana; Grouse Mountain Lodge in
Whitefish, Montana and St. Mary Lodge & Resort in St. Mary, Montana. Glacier Park also owns the Prince of Wales Hotel in Waterton Lakes National Park, which is operated under a 42-year ground lease with the Canadian government running
through January 31, 2052. Glacier Park generated 19 percent of the Travel & Recreation Group’s 2011 segment operating income.  Corporate Activities. Corporate activities expense of $7.7 million in 2011 increased from $6.4 million in 2010. This increase was primarily due to higher legal fees related to employee benefits
associated with previously divested operations and other matters.  Restructuring Charges. In 2011, Viad recorded net
restructuring charges of $3.8 million compared to $4.2 million in 2010 (the 2010 amount includes a reversal of restructuring reserves of $814,000 primarily related to revisions in estimated sublease income associated with certain leased facilities).
These charges primarily related to reorganization activities in the Marketing & Events Group, comprised of the elimination of certain positions as well as facility consolidations.  
Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for 2011 was 29.5 percent compared to 68.1 percent for 2010. The relatively low rate for 2011
compared to the statutory rate was due to favorable tax resolutions of $103,000, state tax benefits of $100,000 and other tax benefits. The relatively high rate for 2010 compared to the statutory rate was due to the write-off of deferred taxes of
$1.3 million as a result of health care legislation, partially offset by favorable tax resolutions of $514,000. Excluding the effects of these items, the 2010 effective rate was 38.2 percent.  2010 vs. 2009:  Revenues for 2010 increased 4.8 percent to $844.8
million compared to $805.8 million in 2009. Viad’s income from continuing operations before income taxes was $2.6 million for 2010 compared to a loss of $133.4 million in 2009. Impairment losses for 2010 were $268,000 (after-tax), or $0.01 per
diluted share. In 2009, the Company recorded impairment losses of $98.2 million (after-tax), or $4.92 per diluted share, primarily related to goodwill and other intangible assets in the Marketing & Events Group, as well as $2.9 million
related to the write down of a non-strategic real estate asset held for sale as of December 31, 2009. Income attributable to Viad before impairment losses for 2010 was $449,000, or $0.02 per diluted share, compared to the 2009 loss attributable
to Viad before impairment losses of $7.2 million, or $0.36 per diluted share. Net restructuring charges in 2010 were $4.2 million compared to $14.1 million in 2009, both primarily related to the Marketing & Events Group. The improved
results as compared to 2009 were also the result of higher revenues, overhead reductions and productivity improvements driven by the Company’s Lean initiatives.  Net income attributable to Viad for 2010 was $443,000, or $0.02 per diluted share, compared to a loss of $104.7 million, or $5.25 per diluted share, in 2009. These results include income from discontinued
operations of $262,000, or $0.01 per diluted share, in 2010 and $679,000, or $0.03 per diluted share, in 2009 relating to obligations associated with previously sold operations. 
During 2010, foreign exchange rate variances resulted in increases in revenues and segment operating income of $8.7 million and $1.1
million, respectively, as compared to 2009. Viad conducts its foreign operations primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom and to a lesser extent in certain other countries. 
  20 


Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the effects of foreign exchange rate variances on revenues
and segment operating results from Viad’s significant international operations:   




























 
  
Revenues
 
 
Segment Operating Results
 

 
  
Weighted-Average
 
  
Effect of Rate
 
 
Weighted-Average
 
  
Effect of Rate
 

 
  
Exchange Rates
 
  
Variance
 
 
Exchange Rates
 
  
Variance
 

 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
(thousands)
 
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
(thousands)
 

 Marketing & Events Group:
  



  



  



 



  



  




 Canada
  
$
0.97
  
  
$
0.87
  
  
$
7,607
  
 
$
0.98
  
  
$
0.85
  
  
$
533
  

 United Kingdom
  
$
1.54
  
  
$
1.56
  
  
$
(1,823
) 
 
$
1.52
  
  
$
1.49
  
  
$
52
  

 Travel & Recreation Group:
  



  



  



 



  



  




 Canada
  
$
0.96
  
  
$
0.89
  
  
$
4,387
  
 
$
0.94
  
  
$
0.92
  
  
$
538
  
 Accordingly, Viad’s results were primarily impacted by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar
relative to the U.S. dollar. Future decreases in the exchange rates may adversely impact overall expected profitability and historical period to period comparisons when operating results are translated into U.S. dollars. 
Marketing & Events Group. Revenues for the Marketing & Events U.S. segment were $571.0 million for 2010, up
0.4 percent compared to $568.4 million in 2009. The increase was primarily due to positive show rotation of $15 million in revenue, mostly offset by reductions in brand marketer spending and a base same-show revenue decline of
one percent. Management defines base same-show revenue as revenue from exhibitions and events that occur in the same quarter and same city every year. Base same-shows represented 37.1 percent of Marketing & Events U.S. segment
revenues in 2010. The 2010 segment operating loss was $15.2 million, compared to a loss of $22.1 million in 2009. The improved operating results were primarily the result of higher revenues, overhead reductions of approximately $10 million
versus 2009 and productivity improvements driven by the Company’s Lean initiatives, partially offset by higher accruals for performance-based incentives (which were not significant in 2009) and pricing pressures. 
Revenues for the Marketing & Events International segment were $197.8 million for 2010, up 14.6 percent compared to
$172.6 million in 2009. Segment operating income was $10.1 million in 2010, compared to $9.2 million in 2009. As discussed above, results in this segment were impacted by exchange rates during 2010, resulting in increases of
$4.3 million in revenue and $519,000 in segment operating income, as compared to 2009. Excluding exchange rate variances, 2010 revenues increased by $20.8 million, or 12.1 percent, and operating income increased by $343,000, or 3.7
percent. The increase in revenue primarily resulted from market share gains, improving industry trends, a major project for the 2010 Winter Olympic Games in Canada and positive show rotation of $3 million. The improved operating income was primarily
the result of higher revenues, partially offset by performance-based incentives and the reinstatement of full wages after a temporary reduction in 2009.  Travel & Recreation Group. Revenues for the Travel & Recreation Group segment were $88.3 million, up 17.2 percent compared to 2009 revenues of $75.3 million. Segment
operating income was $19.9 million, up 16.6 percent from 2009 operating income of $17.1 million. As discussed above, results in this segment were impacted by exchange rate variances during 2010, resulting in increases of
$4.4 million and $538,000 in revenues and segment operating income, respectively, as compared to 2009. Excluding exchange rate variances, 2010 revenues increased by $8.6 million, or 11.4 percent, primarily due to initiatives to
capture incremental spend per guest as well as stronger demand for the Company’s tourism services that was partly related to the centennial anniversary of Glacier National Park and the 2010 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games. 
During 2010, approximately 73 percent of revenue and 79 percent of segment operating income generated in the Travel &
Recreation Group segment was derived through its Canadian operations. These operations are largely affected by foreign customer visitation, and, accordingly, increases in the value of the Canadian dollar compared to other currencies could adversely
affect customer volumes, revenue and segment operating income from the Travel & Recreation Group segment. 
Corporate Activities. Corporate activities expense of $6.4 million in 2010 increased from $5.6 million in 2009. This increase was
primarily due to higher performance-based compensation expense in 2010 as compared to performance-based compensation expense reversals in 2009, partially offset by lower consulting fees in 2010. 
Impairment Losses. In 2010, Viad recorded impairment losses of $302,000 related to other intangible assets and certain property
and equipment at the Travel & Recreation Group. In 2009, Viad recorded impairment losses of $116.9 million, including $112.3 million related to the non-cash write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets at the Marketing &
Events Group, $1.7 million related to touring exhibit assets at the Marketing & Events Group and $2.9 million related to the write-down of a non-strategic real estate asset held for sale at the Travel & Recreation Group as of
December 31, 2009. 
  21 


Table of Contents
Restructuring Charges. In 2010, Viad recorded gross restructuring charges of $5.0
million compared to $15.4 million in 2009 primarily related to reorganization activities in the Marketing & Events Group, comprised of the elimination of certain positions as well as facility consolidations. In 2010, Viad also reversed
restructuring reserves of $814,000 versus $1.3 million in 2009 primarily related to revisions in estimated sublease income associated with certain leased facilities.   Income Taxes. The effective tax rate for 2010 was 68.1 percent compared to 21.5 percent for 2009. The relatively high rate for 2010 compared to the statutory rate was due to the write-off of
deferred taxes of $1.3 million as a result of health care legislation, partially offset by favorable tax resolutions of $514,000. Excluding the effects of these items, the 2010 effective rate was 38.2 percent. The relatively low rate for 2009
compared to the statutory rate was due to the effect of certain nondeductible impairment losses of $26.8 million, partially offset by favorable tax resolutions of $3.5 million. Excluding the effects of these items, the 2009 effective rate was 39.0
percent.  Liquidity and Capital Resources:  Cash and cash equivalents were $100.4 million as of December 31, 2011 as compared to $145.8 million as of December 31, 2010, with the decrease primarily due to Viad’s acquisitions and
capital expenditures, partially offset by cash flow from operations. During 2011, the Company generated net cash flows from operating activities of $34.7 million primarily driven by operating results, partially offset by changes in working capital.
Management believes that Viad’s existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to fund operations and capital commitments for at least the next 12 months.  As of December 31, 2011, the Company had $64.1 million of its cash and cash equivalents held outside of the United States. Of the total amount, $56.0 million was held in Canada, $6.5 million in the
United Kingdom and $1.6 million in Germany. Although the Company records income tax expense with respect to its foreign operations at the statutory tax rates in effect in the United States, there were certain historical earnings related to its
Canadian operations which, if repatriated to the United States, would result in incremental income tax expense. The incremental tax liability as of December 31, 2011 that would result assuming all foreign cash balances were repatriated to the
United States would be approximately $2.0 million.  Viad’s total debt as of December 31, 2011 was $3.2 million
compared to $9.1 million as of December 31, 2010. The debt-to-capital ratio was 0.008 to 1 as of December 31, 2011 compared with 0.023 to 1 as of December 31, 2010. Capital is defined as total debt and capital lease obligations plus
total stockholders’ equity.  Effective May 18, 2011, Viad amended and restated its secured revolving credit
agreement (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility provides for a $130 million revolving line of credit, which may be increased up to an additional $50 million under certain circumstances. The term of the Credit Facility is five years
(expiring on May 18, 2016) and borrowings are to be used for general corporate purposes (including permitted acquisitions) and to support up to $50 million of letters of credit. The lenders have a first perfected security interest in all of the
personal property of Viad and GES, including 65 percent of the capital stock of top-tier foreign subsidiaries. In April 2011, Viad paid off its outstanding borrowing under the previous credit facility of $4.2 million and as of December 31,
2011, Viad’s total debt of $3.2 million consisted entirely of capital lease obligations. As of December 31, 2011, Viad had $125.4 million of capacity remaining under its Credit Facility reflecting outstanding letters of credit of $4.6
million.  Borrowings under the Credit Facility (of which GES is a guarantor) are indexed to the London Interbank Offered Rate,
plus appropriate spreads tied to Viad’s leverage ratio. Commitment fees and letters of credit fees are also tied to Viad’s leverage ratio. The fees on the unused portion of the Credit Facility are currently 0.35 percent annually.
 As part of the amendment, Viad’s financial covenants were revised to include a fixed-charge coverage ratio of not less
than 2.25 to 1 (and a ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1 after the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2012) and a leverage ratio (defined as total debt to Adjusted EBITDA) of not greater than 2.50 to 1. Additionally, Viad must maintain a
consolidated minimum cash and cash equivalents balance of $50 million. As of December 31, 2011, the fixed-charge coverage and leverage ratios were 2.94 to 1 and 0.30 to 1, respectively. The terms of the Credit Facility allow Viad to pay up to
$10 million in dividends in the aggregate in any calendar year and also allow the Company to purchase up to $10 million in any calendar year of the Company’s common stock. Significant other covenants include limitations on: investments,
additional indebtedness, sales/leases of assets, acquisitions, consolidations or mergers and liens on property. As of December 31, 2011, Viad was in compliance with all covenants. 
As of December 31, 2011, Viad had certain obligations under guarantees to third parties on behalf of its subsidiaries. These
guarantees are not subject to liability recognition in the consolidated financial statements and relate to leased facilities entered into by the Company’s subsidiary operations. The Company would generally be required to make payments to the
respective third parties under these guarantees in the event that the related subsidiary could not meet its own payment obligations. The maximum potential amount of future payments that Viad would be required to make under all guarantees existing as
of December 31, 2011 would be $28.5 million. These guarantees relate to leased facilities and expire through October 2017. There are no recourse provisions that would enable Viad to recover from third parties any payments made under the
guarantees. Furthermore, there are no collateral or similar arrangements whereby Viad could recover payments. 
  22 


Table of Contents
Capital expenditures for 2011 totaled $21.5 million and primarily related to the purchase of
rental inventory, equipment and computer hardware primarily at the Marketing & Events U.S. segment. Capital expenditures for 2010 totaled $17.0 million and primarily related to the purchase of rental inventory, equipment and computer
hardware primarily at the Marketing & Events U.S. segment and building improvements and equipment at the Travel & Recreation Group.  On January 5, 2011, Viad completed the acquisition of Grouse Mountain Lodge for $10.5 million in cash. On June 29, 2011, Viad completed the acquisition of St. Mary for $15.3 million in cash. On
September 16, 2011, Viad completed the acquisition of Denali Backcountry Lodge and Denali Cabins for $15.3 million in cash. On March 7, 2012, Viad acquired the Banff International Hotel and related assets for $23.5 million in cash, subject
to certain adjustments. The Banff International Hotel is a 162-guest room commercial hotel located in Banff, Alberta, Canada. 
In 2012, management anticipates incurring an estimated $20 million on the development of the Glacier Discovery Walk, a 1,312-foot guided
interpretive walkway with a 98-foot glass-floored observation area overlooking the Sunwapta Valley at the Tangle Ridge Viewpoint in Jasper National Park, Alberta, Canada.  In March 2010, Viad completed the sale of a non-strategic real estate asset for $14.3 million (net of selling costs).  Viad has announced its intent to repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock from time to time at prevailing market prices. During 2011 and 2010, Viad repurchased 250,760 shares for $4.6 million
and 356,300 shares for $6.3 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, 53,621 shares remain available for repurchase from the announced authorization. Additionally, during 2011 and 2010, the Company repurchased 28,627 shares for $679,000
and 28,407 shares for $573,000, respectively, related to tax withholding requirements on share-based awards.  During 2009,
Viad paid certain foreign income tax reassessments of $4.9 million and received tax refunds of $1.9 million pursuant to a joint settlement with certain Canadian taxing jurisdictions. During 2010, Viad received income tax refunds of $5.6 million
related to carryback claims associated with 2009 operating losses.  The following table presents Viad’s contractual
obligations as of December 31, 2011:   
























 
  
Payments due by period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Less than1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
More than5 years
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Operating leases
  
$
72,297
  
  
$
16,699
  
  
$
30,196
  
  
$
12,609
  
  
$
12,793
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits (1)
  
 
38,302
  
  
 
3,511
  
  
 
7,580
  
  
 
7,713
  
  
 
19,498
  

 Purchase obligations (2)
  
 
23,996
  
  
 
16,384
  
  
 
7,278
  
  
 
277
  
  
 
57
  

 Capital lease obligations
  
 
3,239
  
  
 
2,018
  
  
 
1,183
  
  
 
38
  
  
 
—  
  

 Estimated interest payments
  
 
559
  
  
 
432
  
  
 
123
  
  
 
4
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual cash obligations (3)
  
$
138,393
  
  
$
39,044
  
  
$
46,360
  
  
$
20,641
  
  
$
32,348
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
Estimated contributions related to multi-employer benefit plans are excluded from the table above. See Note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements for
disclosures regarding those obligations. 


(2)
Purchase obligations primarily represent payments due under various licensing agreements and commitments related to consulting and other contracted services that are
enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. 


(3)
Aggregate self-insurance liabilities of $27.1 million are excluded from the table above as the timing and amounts of future cash outflows are uncertain. See Note 9 of
notes to consolidated financial statements.  Viad and certain of its subsidiaries are plaintiffs or defendants
to various actions, proceedings and pending claims, some of which involve, or may involve, compensatory, punitive or other damages. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and it is possible that some of the legal actions, proceedings or claims
could be decided against Viad. Although the amount of liability as of December 31, 2011 with respect to these matters is not ascertainable, Viad believes that any resulting liability, after taking into consideration amounts already provided for
and insurance coverage, will not have a material effect on Viad’s business, financial position or results of operations. 
  23 


Table of Contents
Viad is subject to various U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing
the prevention of pollution and the protection of the environment in the jurisdictions in which Viad has or had operations. If the Company has failed to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, civil and criminal penalties could be
imposed and Viad could become subject to regulatory enforcement actions in the form of injunctions and cease and desist orders. As is the case with many companies, Viad also faces exposure to actual or potential claims and lawsuits involving
environmental matters relating to its past operations. Although it is a party to certain environmental disputes, Viad believes that any resulting liabilities, after taking into consideration amounts already provided for and insurance coverage, will
not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, there was a remaining environmental remediation liability of $5.8 million related to previously sold operations of
which $755,000 is included in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Other current liabilities” and $5.0 million under the caption “Other deferred items and liabilities.” 
Viad’s businesses contribute to various multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective-bargaining
agreements covering its union-represented employees. Viad’s contributions to these plans in 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $19.6 million, $15.3 million and $15.7 million, respectively. Based upon the information available to Viad from plan
administrators, management believes that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires pension plans underfunded at certain levels to reduce, over defined time periods, the underfunded status. In
addition, under current laws, the termination of a plan, or a voluntary withdrawal from a plan by Viad, or a shrinking contribution base to a plan as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other contributing employers to such plan, would
require Viad to make payments to such plan for its proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of additional funding, if any, that Viad would be required to make related to
multi-employer pension plans is not ascertainable.  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: 
Viad does not have any “off-balance sheet” arrangements with unconsolidated special-purpose or other entities that would
materially affect the Company’s financial position, results of operations, liquidity or capital resources. Furthermore, Viad does not have any relationships with special-purpose or other entities that provide off-balance sheet financing;
liquidity, market risk or credit risk support; or engage in leasing or other services that may expose the Company to liability or risks of loss that are not reflected in Viad’s consolidated financial statements and related notes. See Notes 10,
18 and 19 of notes to consolidated financial statements.  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined a company’s most critical accounting policies as those that are most
important to the portrayal of a company’s financial position and results of operations, and that require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are
inherently uncertain. Based on these criteria, Viad has identified and discussed with its audit committee the following critical accounting policies and estimates pertaining to Viad, and the methodology and disclosures related to those estimates:
 Goodwill — Goodwill is not amortized, but tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis on
October 31 of each year. Goodwill is also tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Viad’s
reporting units are defined, and goodwill is tested, at either an operating segment level or at the component level of an operating segment, depending on various factors including: the internal reporting structure of the operating segment, the level
of integration among components, the sharing of assets among components and the benefits and likely recoverability of goodwill by the component’s operations.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had total goodwill of $133.7 million consisting of $84.9 million related to the Marketing & Events Group and $48.8 million related to the Travel &
Recreation Group. Within the Marketing & Events Group, goodwill of $62.7 million relates to the Marketing & Events U.S. segment and $22.2 million to the Marketing & Events International segment. For impairment testing
purposes, the goodwill related to the Marketing & Events U.S. segment is assigned to and tested at the operating segment level, which represents all domestic operations of GES. Furthermore, the goodwill related to the Marketing &
Events International segment is assigned to and tested at the component level within the segment’s geographical operations. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of goodwill assigned to the reporting units in the United Kingdom (Melville)
and Canada was $13.3 million and $8.9 million, respectively. Also, as of December 31, 2011, the Brewster, Glacier Park and Alaskan Park Properties operating segments (within the Travel & Recreation Group) had goodwill of $41.2 million,
$4.4 million and $3.2 million (acquired September 2011), respectively. Brewster, Glacier Park and Alaskan Park Properties are considered reporting units for goodwill impairment testing purposes. 
  24 


Table of Contents
Viad uses a discounted expected future cash flow methodology (income approach) in order to
estimate the fair value of its reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing. The estimates and assumptions regarding expected future cash flows, discount rates and terminal values require considerable judgment and are based on market
conditions, financial forecasts, industry trends and historical experience.  The most critical assumptions and estimates in
determining the estimated fair value of its reporting units relate to the amounts and timing of expected future cash flows for each reporting unit and the reporting unit cost of capital (discount rate) applied to those cash flows. Furthermore, the
assumed reporting unit cost of capital rates (discount rates) are estimated using a build-up method based on the perceived risk associated with the cash flows pertaining to the specific reporting unit. In order to assess the reasonableness of its
fair value estimates, the Company performs a reconciliation of the aggregate fair values of its reporting units to Viad’s market capitalization.  As noted above, the estimates and assumptions regarding expected future cash flows, discount rates and terminal values require considerable judgment and are based on market conditions, financial
forecasts, industry trends and historical experience. These estimates, however, have inherent uncertainties and different assumptions could lead to materially different results. As of December 31, 2011, Viad had aggregate goodwill of $133.7
million recorded in the consolidated balance sheets. Furthermore, as a result of the Company’s most recent impairment analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2011, the excess of the estimated fair values over the carrying values (expressed
as a percentage of the carrying amounts) under step one of the impairment test was 89 percent, 43 percent and 30 percent for each of the Marketing & Events Group reporting units in the United States, the United Kingdom (Melville) and
Canada, respectively. For the Brewster and Glacier Park reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over the carrying value was 44 percent and 48 percent, respectively, as of the most recent impairment test. Significant reductions in the
Company’s expected future revenue, operating income or cash flow forecasts and projections, or an increase in reporting unit cost of capital, could trigger additional goodwill impairment testing, which may result in additional impairment
losses. Furthermore, management continues to monitor the market capitalization of the Company as ongoing declines in market capitalization could be indicative of possible goodwill impairment. See “Results of Operations” above and Note 3 of
notes to consolidated financial statements for a discussion of goodwill impairment losses recorded during 2009.  Income
taxes — Viad is required to estimate and record provisions for income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Accordingly, the Company must estimate its actual current income tax liability, and assess temporary
differences arising from the treatment of items for tax purposes as compared to the treatment for accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are included in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. The
Company must assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and to the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance must be established. The Company uses significant judgment in forming a
conclusion regarding the recoverability of its deferred tax assets and evaluates the available positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that its deferred tax assets will be realized in the future. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had gross deferred tax assets of $70.7 million and $67.1 million, respectively. These deferred tax assets reflect the expected future tax benefits to be realized upon reversal of deductible temporary
differences, and the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  The Company considered all available
positive and negative evidence regarding the future recoverability of its deferred tax assets, including the Company’s recent operating history and projected taxable income, taxpaying history and future reversals of deferred tax liabilities.
Furthermore, Viad also considered the fact that goodwill impairment losses are not tax deductible and thus did not contribute to tax losses. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had a valuation allowance of $356,000 and $411,000,
respectively, related to certain state deferred tax assets. With respect to all other deferred tax assets, management believes that recovery from future taxable income is more-likely-than-not. 
As noted above, Viad uses considerable judgment in forming a conclusion regarding the recoverability of its deferred tax assets. As a
result, there are inherent uncertainties regarding the ultimate realization of these assets, which is primarily dependent on Viad’s ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods. In future periods, it is reasonably possible
that the relative weight of positive and negative evidence regarding the recoverability of Viad’s deferred tax assets may change, which could result in a material increase in the Company’s valuation allowance. If such an increase in the
valuation allowance were to occur, it would result in increased income tax expense in the period the assessment was made. 
Insurance liabilities — Viad is self-insured up to certain limits for workers’ compensation, automobile, product and
general liability and property loss claims. The aggregate amount of insurance liabilities related to Viad’s continuing operations was $21.1 million as of December 31, 2011. Of this total, $14.3 million related to workers’ compensation
liabilities and the remaining $6.8 million related to general/auto liability claims. Viad has also retained and provided for certain insurance liabilities in conjunction with previously sold businesses totaling $6.0 million as of December 31,
2011, primarily related to workers’ compensation liabilities. Provisions for losses for claims incurred, including estimated claims incurred but not yet 
  25 


Table of Contents

reported, are made based on Viad’s historical experience, claims frequency and other factors. A change in the assumptions used could result in an adjustment to recorded liabilities. Viad has
purchased insurance for amounts in excess of the self-insured levels, which generally range from $200,000 to $500,000 on a per claim basis. Viad does not maintain a self-insured retention pool fund as claims are paid from current cash resources at
the time of settlement. Viad’s net cash payments in connection with these insurance liabilities were $7.6 million, $6.8 million and $8.3 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Pension and postretirement benefits — Viad’s pension plans use traditional defined benefit formulas based on years of
service and final average compensation. Funding policies provide that payments to defined benefit pension trusts shall be at least equal to the minimum funding required by applicable regulations. The Company presently anticipates contributing $1.6
million to its funded pension plans and $952,000 to its unfunded pension plans in 2012.  Viad and certain of its subsidiaries
have defined benefit postretirement plans that provide medical and life insurance for certain eligible employees, retirees and dependents. The related postretirement benefit liabilities are recognized over the period that services are provided by
employees. In addition, Viad retained the obligations for these benefits for retirees of certain sold businesses. While the plans have no funding requirements, Viad expects to contribute $450,000 to the plans in 2012. 
The assumed health care cost trend rate used in measuring the December 31, 2011 accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was
nine percent, declining one-half percent each year to the ultimate rate of five percent by the year 2019 and remaining at that level thereafter. The assumed health care cost trend rate used in measuring the December 31, 2010 accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was nine and one-half percent, declining one-half percent each year to the ultimate rate of five percent by the year 2019 and remaining at that level thereafter. 
A one-percentage-point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would increase the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011 by approximately $1.7 million and the total of service and interest cost components by approximately $112,000. A one-percentage-point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each year
would decrease the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011 by approximately $1.5 million and the total of service and interest cost components by approximately $93,000. 
The weighted-average assumptions used to determine the pension and postretirement benefit obligations as of December 31 were as
follows:   




































 
  
Domestic Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postretirement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Funded Plans
 
 
Unfunded Plans
 
 
Benefit Plans
 
 
Foreign Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Discount rate
  
 
4.92
% 
 
 
5.45
% 
 
 
4.75
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
4.70
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
4.60
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 The weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost were as follows: 
 




































 
  
Domestic Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Postretirement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Funded Plans
 
 
Unfunded Plans
 
 
Benefit Plans
 
 
Foreign Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Discount rate
  
 
5.45
% 
 
 
5.90
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
5.70
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
5.60
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
5.60
% 

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
6.35
% 
 
 
6.35
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
6.10
% 
 
 
6.10
% 
 
 
5.50
% 
 
 
5.75
% 
 The discount rates used in determining future pension and postretirement benefit obligations are based on
rates determined by actuarial analysis and management review, and reflect the estimated rates of return on a high-quality, hypothetical bond portfolio whose cash flows match the timing and amounts of expected benefit payments. See Note 16 of notes
to consolidated financial statements.  Share-based compensation — Viad grants share-based compensation awards to
officers, directors and certain key employees pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan which has a ten-year life and provides for the following types of awards: (a) incentive and non-qualified stock options; (b) restricted
stock and restricted stock units; (c) performance units or performance shares; (d) stock appreciation rights; (e) cash-based awards and (f) certain other stock-based awards. 
Share-based compensation expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $4.4 million, $3.5
million and $3.1 million, respectively. Furthermore, the total tax benefits related to such costs were $1.6 million, $1.2 million and $1.1 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. No share-based compensation costs were capitalized during 2011,
2010 or 2009.  The fair value of restricted stock and performance-based restricted stock awards are based on Viad’s stock
price on the date of grant. Liability-based awards are recorded at estimated fair value, based on the number of units expected to vest and the 
  26 


Table of Contents

level of achievement of predefined performance goals (where applicable) and are remeasured on each balance sheet date based on Viad’s stock price until the time of settlement. Viad uses the
Black-Scholes option pricing model for purposes of determining the fair value of each stock option grant for which key assumptions are necessary. These assumptions include Viad’s expected stock price volatility; the expected period of time the
stock option will remain outstanding; the expected dividend yield on Viad common stock, and the risk-free interest rate. Changes in the assumptions could result in different estimates of the fair value of stock option grants, and consequently impact
Viad’s results of operations. See Note 2 of notes to consolidated financial statements.  Impact of Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
 For a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated
effects, if any, on Viad’s consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements. 
Forward-Looking Statements:  As provided by the safe harbor provision under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Viad cautions readers that, in addition to historical information contained herein, this Annual Report
includes certain information, assumptions and discussions that may constitute forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but reflect current estimates, projections, expectations, or trends concerning
future growth, operating cash flows, availability of short-term borrowings, consumer demand, new business, investment policies, productivity improvements, ongoing cost reduction efforts, efficiency, competitiveness, legal expenses, tax rates and
other tax matters, foreign exchange rates and the realization of restructuring cost savings. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Viad’s businesses can be affected by a host of risks and
uncertainties. Among other things, natural disasters, gains and losses of customers, consumer demand patterns, labor relations, purchasing decisions related to customer demand for exhibition and event services, existing and new competition, industry
alliances, consolidation and growth patterns within the industries in which Viad competes, acquisitions, adverse developments in liabilities associated with discontinued operations, any deterioration in the economy and other risks discussed in
Item 1A., “Risk Factors,” included in this Annual Report, may individually or in combination impact future results. In addition to factors mentioned elsewhere, economic, competitive, governmental, technological, capital marketplace
and other factors, including terrorist activities or war, a pandemic or other health crisis and international conditions, could affect the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. 
 


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 
Viad’s market risk exposures relate to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. Foreign
exchange risk is the risk that fluctuating exchange rates will adversely affect Viad’s financial condition or results of operations. Interest rate risk is the risk that changing interest rates will adversely affect the earnings of Viad.
Commodity risk is the risk that changing prices will adversely affect results of operations.  Viad conducts its foreign
operations primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom and to a lesser extent in certain other countries. The functional currency of Viad’s foreign subsidiaries is their local currency. Accordingly, for purposes of consolidation, Viad translates
the assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars at the foreign exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The unrealized gains or losses resulting from the translation of these foreign denominated assets and
liabilities are included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. As a result, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may result in material changes
to Viad’s net equity position reported in its consolidated balance sheets. Viad does not currently hedge its equity risk arising from the translation of foreign denominated assets and liabilities. Viad had cumulative unrealized foreign currency
translation gains recorded in stockholders’ equity of $34.6 million and $39.0 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2011 and 2010, an unrealized foreign currency translation loss of $4.3 million and a gain of $7.7
million, respectively, were recorded in other comprehensive income. 
  27 


Table of Contents
In addition, for purposes of consolidation, the revenues, expenses, gains and losses related
to Viad’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average foreign exchange rates for the period. As a result, Viad’s consolidated results of operations are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates as the
operating results of its foreign operations, when translated, may vary from period to period, even when the functional currency amounts have not changed. Such fluctuations may adversely impact overall expected profitability and historical period to
period comparisons. Viad does not currently hedge its net earnings exposure arising from the translation of its foreign operating results. As noted above, Viad primarily conducts its foreign operations in Canada and the United Kingdom. The following
table summarizes the effect of foreign exchange rate variances on segment operating results from Viad’s Canadian and United Kingdom operations:   




























 
  
Weighted-AverageExchange
Rates
 
  
Effect of 
RateVariance(thousands)
 
 
Weighted-AverageExchange
Rates
 
  
Effect of 
RateVariance(thousands)
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
 
2010
 
  
2009
 
  

 Canadian Operations:
  



  



  



 



  



  




 Marketing & Events Group
  
$
1.00
  
  
$
0.98
  
  
$
(27
) 
 
$
0.98
  
  
$
0.85
  
  
$
533
  

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
$
1.03
  
  
$
0.94
  
  
$
1,344
  
 
$
0.94
  
  
$
0.92
  
  
$
538
  









 United Kingdom Operations:
  



  



  



 



  



  




 Marketing & Events Group
  
$
1.61
  
  
$
1.52
  
  
$
445
  
 
$
1.52
  
  
$
1.49
  
  
$
52
  
 As the Canadian operations generated aggregate operating income in 2011, Viad’s segment operating
income has been favorably impacted by $1.3 million from the strengthening of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. A hypothetical change of ten percent in the Canadian exchange rate would have resulted in a change to operating income of
approximately $1.9 million. As the United Kingdom operations generated aggregate operating income in 2011, Viad’s segment operating income has been favorably impacted by $445,000 from the strengthening of the British pound relative to the U.S.
dollar. A hypothetical change of ten percent in the British pound exchange rate would have resulted in a change to operating income of approximately $951,000.  Viad is exposed to foreign exchange transaction risk as its foreign subsidiaries have certain revenue transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the respective
subsidiary. From time to time, Viad utilizes forward contracts to mitigate the impact on earnings related to these transactions due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad did not have any significant
foreign currency forward contracts outstanding.  Viad is exposed to short-term interest rate risk on certain of its debt
obligations. Viad currently does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge cash flows for such obligations. 
Viad’s subsidiaries have exposure to changing fuel prices. Periodically, Brewster enters into futures contracts with an oil company
to purchase two types of fuel and specifies the monthly total volume, by fuel product, to be purchased over the agreed upon term of the contract, which is generally no longer than one year. The main objective of Viad’s risk policy related to
changing fuel prices is to reduce transaction exposure in order to mitigate the cash flow risk and protect profit margins. There were no fuel contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2011 or 2010. 
 


Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  Refer to Index to Financial Statements on page 33 for required information.   


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures.  Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Viad, the effectiveness of the design and operation of disclosure
controls and procedures has been evaluated as of December 31, 2011, and, based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures are effective as of
December 31, 2011. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported,
within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in such reports is accumulated
and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  28 


Table of Contents
There were no changes in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during
the fourth quarter of 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting.  Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting and the report of Viad’s independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche LLP, are provided in this
Annual Report immediately prior to the Index to Financial Statements.   


Item 9B.
Other Information.  None.  PART III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance. 
Information regarding directors of Viad, director nomination procedures, the Audit Committee of Viad’s Board of Directors and
compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Viad to be held on May 15, 2012, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Information regarding executive officers of Viad is located in Part I, “Executive Officers of Registrant” on page 10 of this Annual Report.  Viad has adopted a Code of Ethics for all directors, officers and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. A copy of the Company’s Code of Ethics is available at Viad’s website at
www.viad.com/pdf/corpgovernance/CodeofEthics.pdf and is also available without charge to any shareholder upon request by writing to: Viad Corp, 1850 North Central Avenue, Suite 1900, Phoenix, Arizona 85004-4565, Attention: Corporate
Secretary.   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation.  Information regarding executive compensation is contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Viad to be held on May 15, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference.
  


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
Information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and information regarding securities authorized for
issuance under equity compensation plans are contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Viad to be held on May 15, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
 


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
Information regarding director independence, and certain relationships and related transactions, is contained in the Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Viad to be held on May 15, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference.   


Item 14.
Principal Accounting Fees and Services.  Information regarding principal accounting fees and services and the pre-approval policies and procedures for such fees and services, as adopted by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, is
contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Viad to be held on May 15, 2012, and is incorporated herein by reference.  PART IV   


Item 15.
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules.   











 
(a)
    
1.
    
The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to Financial Statements are filed as part of this Annual Report.







 

    
2.
    
The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed as part of this Annual Report.






 
(b)
    
Exhibits






 

    
See Exhibit Index.






 
(c)
    
Financial Statement Schedules






 

    
Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.

  29 


Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has
duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in Phoenix, Arizona, on the 9th day of March, 2012. 
 






VIAD CORP




By:
 
/s/ Paul B. Dykstra


 
Paul B. Dykstra


 
Chairman of the Board, President and


 
Chief Executive Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of Viad Corp and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:   











 

 
Principal Executive Officer






Date: March 9, 2012
 

 
By:
 
/s/ Paul B. Dykstra


 

 

 
Paul B. Dykstra


 

 

 
 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
  











 

 
Principal Financial Officer






Date: March 9, 2012
 

 
By:
 
/s/ Ellen M. Ingersoll


 

 

 
Ellen M. Ingersoll


 

 

 
Chief Financial Officer
  











 

 
Principal Accounting Officer






Date: March 9, 2012
 

 
By:
 
/s/ G. Michael Latta


 

 

 
G. Michael Latta


 

 

 
Chief Accounting Officer—Controller
  















 

 
   Directors  
  Wayne G. Allcott   Daniel
Boggan Jr.   Isabella Cunningham   Richard H. Dozer   Jess Hay
  Robert C. Krueger   Robert
E. Munzenrider   Margaret E. Pederson   Albert M. Teplin


 

 


 

 
  















Date: March 9, 2012
 

 
By:
 
/s/ Ellen M. Ingersoll


 

 

 
Ellen M. Ingersoll


 

 

 
Attorney-in-Fact

  30 


Table of Contents
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
The management of Viad Corp is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial
officers and effected by the company’s board of directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and includes those policies and procedures that:   


 
•
 
 Pertain to the maintenance of records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company;   


 
•
 
 Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and 
 


 
•
 
 Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company’s assets that
could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of its inherent limitations, internal
control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the
degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable
assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Because of the inherent limitations of internal control, there is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by internal control
over financial reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk. 
Management assessed the effectiveness of Viad’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. In making
this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework. 
Based on its assessment, management concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, Viad’s internal control over financial reporting
is effective based on those criteria.  Viad’s independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte & Touche
LLP, has issued a report relating to its audit of the effectiveness of Viad’s internal control over financial reporting, which appears on page 32 of this Annual Report. 
  31 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
Board of Directors and Stockholders of  Viad
Corp  Phoenix, Arizona 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Viad Corp and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company’s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company’s
board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts
and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  Because of the
inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
 We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011, of the Company and our report dated March 9, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule.   




/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Phoenix, Arizona

March 9, 2012

  32 


Table of Contents
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 








 
  
Page
 

 Consolidated Balance Sheets — December 31, 2011 and 2010
  
 
F-1
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations — Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-2
  

 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income — Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-3
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows — Years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and
2009
  
 
F-4
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity — Years ended December 
31, 2011, 2010 and 2009..
  
 
F-5
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
F-6
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
F-43
  

 Schedule II – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
  
 
F-44
  

  33 


Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands, except share data)
 

 Assets
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
100,376
  
 
$
145,841
  

 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $1,072 and $1,172, respectively
  
 
63,583
  
 
 
47,187
  

 Inventories
  
 
35,825
  
 
 
38,670
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
24,200
  
 
 
22,057
  

 Other current assets
  
 
14,647
  
 
 
17,160
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
238,631
  
 
 
270,915
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
173,813
  
 
 
149,346
  

 Other investments and assets
  
 
31,051
  
 
 
31,363
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
38,755
  
 
 
35,875
  

 Goodwill
  
 
133,694
  
 
 
127,441
  

 Other intangible assets, net
  
 
1,884
  
 
 
1,563
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Assets
  
$
617,828
  
 
$
616,503
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
51,448
  
 
$
47,933
  

 Other current liabilities
  
 
97,331
  
 
 
96,749
  

 Current portion of long-term debt and capital lease obligations
  
 
2,018
  
 
 
6,639
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
150,797
  
 
 
151,321
  

 Long-term debt and capital lease obligations
  
 
1,221
  
 
 
2,438
  

 Pension and postretirement benefits
  
 
35,419
  
 
 
33,008
  

 Other deferred items and liabilities
  
 
44,212
  
 
 
43,025
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
231,649
  
 
 
229,792
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies (Notes 18 and 19)
  



 




 Stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Viad Corp stockholders’ equity:
  



 




 Common stock, $1.50 par value, 200,000,000 shares authorized, 24,934,981 shares issued
  
 
37,402
  
 
 
37,402
  

 Additional capital
  
 
599,188
  
 
 
606,902
  

 Retained deficit
  
 
(13,256
) 
 
 
(19,229
) 

 Unearned employee benefits and other
  
 
(2,951
) 
 
 
(4,433
) 

 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 




 Unrealized gain on investments
  
 
222
  
 
 
282
  

 Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
34,648
  
 
 
38,979
  

 Unrecognized net actuarial loss and prior service credit
  
 
(12,977
) 
 
 
(10,410
) 

 Common stock in treasury, at cost, 4,790,920 and 4,710,988 shares, respectively
  
 
(264,382
) 
 
 
(270,534
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Viad Corp stockholders’ equity
  
 
377,894
  
 
 
378,959
  

 Noncontrolling interest
  
 
8,285
  
 
 
7,752
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity
  
 
386,179
  
 
 
386,711
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
  
$
617,828
  
 
$
616,503
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-1



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Convention and event services
  
$
670,054
  
 
$
590,444
  
 
$
582,969
  

 Exhibits and environments
  
 
170,496
  
 
 
166,040
  
 
 
147,533
  

 Travel and recreation services
  
 
101,814
  
 
 
88,277
  
 
 
75,302
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
 
942,364
  
 
 
844,761
  
 
 
805,804
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Costs and expenses:
  



 



 




 Costs of services
  
 
752,679
  
 
 
656,315
  
 
 
636,249
  

 Costs of products sold
  
 
164,309
  
 
 
173,690
  
 
 
165,367
  

 Corporate activities
  
 
7,682
  
 
 
6,422
  
 
 
5,607
  

 Interest income
  
 
(779 
) 
 
 
(584 
) 
 
 
(579 
) 

 Interest expense
  
 
1,511
  
 
 
1,835
  
 
 
1,690
  

 Restructuring charges
  
 
3,782
  
 
 
4,222
  
 
 
14,054
  

 Goodwill impairment losses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
98,304
  

 Intangible asset impairment losses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
185
  
 
 
14,005
  

 Other impairment losses
  
 
—  
  
 
 
117
  
 
 
4,554
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total costs and expenses
  
 
929,184
  
 
 
842,202
  
 
 
939,251
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
 
13,180
  
 
 
2,559
  
 
 
(133,447
) 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
3,888
  
 
 
1,742
  
 
 
(28,639 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
9,292
  
 
 
817
  
 
 
(104,808
) 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
451
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
9,743
  
 
 
1,079
  
 
 
(104,129
) 

 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
(533 
) 
 
 
(636 
) 
 
 
(582 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
9,210
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
(104,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Diluted income (loss) per common share
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.43
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
$
(5.28 
) 

 Income from discontinued operations attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
0.03
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.45
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
(5.25 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average outstanding and potentially dilutive common shares
  
 
20,055
  
 
 
20,277
  
 
 
19,960
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic income (loss) per common share
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.43
  
 
$
0.01
  
 
$
(5.28 
) 

 Income from discontinued operations attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
 
0.02
  
 
 
0.01
  
 
 
0.03
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.45
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
(5.25 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average outstanding common shares
  
 
19,719
  
 
 
19,955
  
 
 
19,960
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Dividends declared per common share
  
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  
 
$
0.16
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Amounts attributable to Viad common stockholders
  



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
8,759
  
 
$
181
  
 
$
(105,390
) 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
451
  
 
 
262
  
 
 
679
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
9,210
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
(104,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-2



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
9,743
  
 
$
1,079
  
 
$
(104,129
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other comprehensive income (loss):
  



 



 




 Unrealized investment gains (losses) arising during the period, net of tax expense (benefit) of $(36), $82 and
$137
  
 
(60 
) 
 
 
128
  
 
 
216
  

 Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax
  
 
(4,331
) 
 
 
7,696
  
 
 
25,050
  

 Amortization of net actuarial loss, net of tax expense (benefit) of $(709), $1,433 and $(2,859)
  
 
(1,777
) 
 
 
(2,109
) 
 
 
(4,164 
) 

 Amortization of prior service credit, net of tax benefit of $487, $17 and $353
  
 
(790 
) 
 
 
84
  
 
 
(548 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
(6,958
) 
 
 
5,799
  
 
 
20,554
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
2,785
  
 
 
6,878
  
 
 
(83,575 
) 

 Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interest
  
 
(533 
) 
 
 
(636 
) 
 
 
(582 
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
2,252
  
 
$
6,242
  
 
$
(84,157
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-3



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
 
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Cash flows from operating activities
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
9,743
  
 
$
1,079
  
 
$
(104,129
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
  



 



 




 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
29,126
  
 
 
28,252
  
 
 
28,269
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
(924
) 
 
 
744
  
 
 
(8,349
) 

 Income from discontinued operations
  
 
(451
) 
 
 
(262
) 
 
 
(679
) 

 Restructuring charges
  
 
3,782
  
 
 
4,222
  
 
 
14,054
  

 Impairment charges
  
 
—  
  
 
 
302
  
 
 
116,863
  

 Losses (gains) on dispositions of property and other assets
  
 
(42
) 
 
 
45
  
 
 
(18
) 

 Share-based compensation expense
  
 
4,413
  
 
 
3,518
  
 
 
3,093
  

 Excess tax benefit from share-based compensation arrangements
  
 
(54
) 
 
 
(27
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other non-cash items, net
  
 
4,659
  
 
 
4,580
  
 
 
6,714
  

 Change in operating assets and liabilities (excluding the impact of acquisitions):
  



 



 




 Receivables
  
 
(18,092
) 
 
 
(3,042
) 
 
 
5,834
  

 Inventories
  
 
3,729
  
 
 
6,148
  
 
 
7,493
  

 Accounts payable
  
 
4,372
  
 
 
4,637
  
 
 
(15,623
) 

 Restructuring liabilities
  
 
(3,888
) 
 
 
(6,718
) 
 
 
(7,587
) 

 Accrued compensation
  
 
4,563
  
 
 
6,966
  
 
 
(17,620
) 

 Customer deposits
  
 
4,950
  
 
 
2,000
  
 
 
(1,600
) 

 Income taxes payable
  
 
(2,694
) 
 
 
(1,264
) 
 
 
(4,660
) 

 Other assets and liabilities, net
  
 
(8,456
) 
 
 
(7,897
) 
 
 
(28,302
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
  
 
34,736
  
 
 
43,283
  
 
 
(6,247
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from investing activities
  



 



 




 Capital expenditures
  
 
(21,538
) 
 
 
(17,040
) 
 
 
(21,315
) 

 Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
  
 
(41,105
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from dispositions of property and other assets
  
 
440
  
 
 
14,753
  
 
 
76
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in investing activities
  
 
(62,203
) 
 
 
(2,287
) 
 
 
(21,239
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash flows from financing activities
  



 



 




 Payments on debt and capital lease obligations
  
 
(7,375
) 
 
 
(4,900
) 
 
 
(3,715
) 

 Dividends paid on common stock
  
 
(3,241
) 
 
 
(3,275
) 
 
 
(3,292
) 

 Common stock purchased for treasury
  
 
(5,230
) 
 
 
(6,906
) 
 
 
(1,233
) 

 Debt issuance costs
  
 
(1,001
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(277
) 

 Excess tax benefits from share-based compensation arrangements
  
 
54
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
—  
  

 Proceeds from exercise of stock options
  
 
296
  
 
 
593
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in financing activities
  
 
(16,497
) 
 
 
(14,461
) 
 
 
(8,517
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(1,501
) 
 
 
2,964
  
 
 
4,305
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net change in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
(45,465
) 
 
 
29,499
  
 
 
(31,698
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year
  
 
145,841
  
 
 
116,342
  
 
 
148,040
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year
  
$
100,376
  
 
$
145,841
  
 
$
116,342
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information
  



 



 




 Cash paid for income taxes
  
$
10,213
  
 
$
7,931
  
 
$
10,158
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash paid for interest
  
$
1,088
  
 
$
1,131
  
 
$
1,309
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Equipment acquired under capital leases
  
$
1,327
  
 
$
963
  
 
$
3,511
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-4



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
 








































 
  
CommonStock
 
  
AdditionalCapital
 
 
RetainedEarnings(Deficit)
 
 
UnearnedEmployeeBenefitsand Other
 
 
AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome
 
 
CommonStock inTreasury
 
 
TotalViadEquity
 
 
Non-ControllingInterest
 
  
TotalStockholders’Equity
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 Balance, January 1, 2009
  
$
37,402
  
  
$
623,781
  
 
$
91,558
  
 
$
(7,881
) 
 
$
2,498
  
 
$
(286,803
) 
 
$
460,555
  
 
$
6,534
  
  
$
467,089
  

 Net income (loss)
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(104,711
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(104,711
) 
 
 
582
  
  
 
(104,129
) 

 Dividends on common stock
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,292
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,292
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,292
) 

 Common stock purchased for treasury
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,233
) 
 
 
(1,233
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,233
) 

 Employee benefit plans
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(21,398
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
21,398
  
 
 
(30
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(30
) 

 ESOP allocation adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,964
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,964
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,964
  

 Share-based compensation—equity awards
  
 
—  
  
  
 
4,899
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,899
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
4,899
  

 Tax deficiencies from share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,251
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,251
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,251
) 

 Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25,050
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25,050
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
25,050
  

 Unrealized gain on investments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
216
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
216
  

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(548
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(548
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(548
) 

 Amortization of net actuarial loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,164
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,164
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,164
) 

 Other, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
7
  
 
 
40
  
 
 
(7
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
20
  
 
 
60
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
60
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2009
  
 
37,402
  
  
 
606,038
  
 
 
(16,405
) 
 
 
(5,954
) 
 
 
23,052
  
 
 
(266,618
) 
 
 
377,515
  
 
 
7,116
  
  
 
384,631
  

 Net income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
443
  
 
 
636
  
  
 
1,079
  

 Dividends on common stock
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,275
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,275
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,275
) 

 Common stock purchased for treasury
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,905
) 
 
 
(6,905
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(6,905
) 

 Employee benefit plans
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,397
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,989
  
 
 
592
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
592
  

 ESOP allocation adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,518
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,518
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,518
  

 Share-based compensation—equity awards
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,785
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,785
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
3,785
  

 Tax deficiencies from share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(524
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(524
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(524
) 

 Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,696
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
7,696
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
7,696
  

 Unrealized gain on investments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
128
  

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
84
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
84
  

 Amortization of net actuarial loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,109
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,109
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,109
) 

 Other, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
8
  
 
 
3
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2010
  
 
37,402
  
  
 
606,902
  
 
 
(19,229
) 
 
 
(4,433
) 
 
 
28,851
  
 
 
(270,534
) 
 
 
378,959
  
 
 
7,752
  
  
 
386,711
  

 Net income
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
9,210
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,210
  
 
 
533
  
  
 
9,743
  

 Dividends on common stock
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,241
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,241
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,241
) 

 Common stock purchased for treasury
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,230
) 
 
 
(5,230
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(5,230
) 

 Employee benefit plans
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(11,086
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
11,381
  
 
 
295
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
295
  

 ESOP allocation adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,490
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,490
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,490
  

 Share-based compensation—equity awards
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,688
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,688
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
3,688
  

 Tax deficiencies from share-based compensation
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(325
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(325
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(325
) 

 Unrealized foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,331
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,331
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(4,331
) 

 Unrealized loss on investments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(60
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(60
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(60
) 

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(790
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(790
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(790
) 

 Amortization of net actuarial loss
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,777
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,777
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,777
) 

 Other, net
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9
  
 
 
4
  
 
 
(8
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
6
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
6
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance, December 31, 2011
  
$
37,402
  
  
$
599,188
  
 
$
(13,256
) 
 
$
(2,951
) 
 
$
21,893
  
 
$
(264,382
) 
 
$
377,894
  
 
$
8,285
  
  
$
386,179
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  F-5



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011, 2010 AND 2009 
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of Viad Corp (“Viad” or the “Company”) are prepared in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) and include the accounts of Viad and all of its subsidiaries. All intercompany account balances and transactions between Viad and its subsidiaries have been
eliminated in consolidation.  Nature of Business 
Viad’s reportable segments consist of Marketing & Events U.S., Marketing & Events International and
Travel & Recreation Group.  Marketing & Events Group 
The Marketing & Events Group, comprised of Global Experience Specialists, Inc. and affiliates (“GES”), specializes in
all aspects of the design, planning and production of face-to-face events, immersive environments and brand-based experiences for clients, including show organizers, corporate brand marketers and retail shopping centers. In addition, the
Marketing & Events Group provides a variety of immersive, entertaining attractions and brand-based experiences, sponsored events, mobile marketing and other branded entertainment and face-to-face marketing solutions for clients and venues,
including shopping malls, movie studios, museums, leading consumer brands and casinos.  Travel & Recreation Group
 Travel and recreation services are provided by Brewster Inc. (“Brewster”), Glacier Park, Inc. (“Glacier
Park”) and Alaskan Park Properties, Inc. (“Alaskan Park Properties”).  Brewster provides tourism services in
the Canadian Rockies in Alberta and in other parts of Western Canada. Brewster’s operations include the Banff Gondola, Columbia Icefield Glacier Adventure, motorcoach services, charter and sightseeing services, tour boat operations, inbound
package tour operations and hotel operations.  Glacier Park operates five lodges, three motor inns and one four-season resort
hotel and provides food and beverage operations, retail operations and tour and transportation services in and around Glacier National Park in Montana and Waterton Lakes National Park in Alberta, Canada. Glacier Park is an 80 percent owned
subsidiary of Viad.  In September 2011, Alaskan Park Properties, Viad’s wholly-owned subsidiary, acquired Denali
Backcountry Lodge and Denali Cabins. Denali Backcountry Lodge is a 42 guest room lodge located within Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska and the Denali Cabins are 46 guest cabins located near the entrance to Denali National Park and
Preserve. In addition to lodging, Alaskan Park Properties also provides food and beverage operations and package tour and transportation services in and around Denali National Park and Preserve. 
Significant Accounting Policies  Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes. These estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to:   


 
•
 
 Estimated fair value of Viad’s reporting units used to perform annual impairment testing of recorded goodwill; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated fair value of intangible assets with indefinite lives, for purposes of impairment testing; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts receivable; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated provisions for income taxes, including uncertain tax positions; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated liabilities for losses related to self-insured liability claims; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated liabilities for losses related to environmental remediation obligations; 
 


 
•
 
 Estimated sublease income associated with restructuring liabilities; 
 


 
•
 
 Assumptions used to measure pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations; 
 


 
•
 
 Assumptions used to determine share-based compensation costs under the fair value method; and 
 


 
•
 
 Allocation of purchase price of acquired businesses.  Actual results could differ from these and other estimates. 
  F-6



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents. Viad considers all highly-liquid investments with
remaining maturities when purchased of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Viad’s cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and bank demand deposits, bank time deposits and money market mutual funds. The Company’s investments in
money market mutual funds are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value.  Inventories. Inventories,
which consist primarily of exhibit design and construction materials and supplies used in providing convention show services, are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out and specific identification methods) or market. 
Property and Equipment. Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Property and equipment are
depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets: buildings, 15 to 40 years; equipment, 3 to 12 years; and leasehold improvements, over the shorter of the lease term or useful life. Property and equipment are
tested for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived asset may not be recoverable through undiscounted cash flows. 
Capitalized Software. Viad capitalizes certain internal and external costs incurred in developing or obtaining internal use
software. Capitalized costs principally relate to costs incurred to purchase software from third parties, external direct costs of materials and services, and certain payroll-related costs for employees directly associated with software projects
once application development begins. Costs associated with preliminary project activities, training and other post-implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Capitalized software costs are amortized using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the software, ranging from three to ten years. These costs are included in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Property and equipment, net.” 
Goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis on October 31 of each year.
Goodwill is also tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more-likely-than-not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Viad uses a discounted expected future cash
flow methodology (income approach) in order to estimate the fair value of its reporting units for purposes of goodwill impairment testing. The estimates and assumptions regarding expected future cash flows, discount rates and terminal values require
considerable judgment and are based on market conditions, financial forecasts, industry trends and historical experience. These estimates, however, have inherent uncertainties and different assumptions could lead to materially different results.
 Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance. Viad has Company-owned life insurance contracts which are intended to fund the
cost of certain employee compensation and benefit programs. These contracts are carried at cash surrender value, net of outstanding policy loans. The cash surrender value represents the amount of cash the Company could receive if the policies were
discontinued before maturity. The changes in the cash surrender value of the policies, net of insurance premiums, are included as a component of “Costs of Services” in the consolidated statements of operations. 
Self-Insurance Liabilities. Viad is self-insured up to certain limits for workers’ compensation, automobile, product and
general liability, property loss and medical claims. Viad has also retained certain liabilities related to workers’ compensation and general liability insurance claims in conjunction with previously sold operations. Provisions for losses for
claims incurred, including estimated claims incurred but not yet reported, are made based on Viad’s prior historical experience, claims frequency and other factors. Viad has purchased insurance for amounts in excess of the self-insured levels.
 Environmental Remediation Liabilities. Viad has retained certain liabilities representing the estimated cost of
environmental remediation obligations primarily associated with previously sold operations. The amounts accrued primarily consist of the estimated direct incremental costs, on an undiscounted basis, for contractor and other services related to
remedial actions and post-remediation site monitoring. Environmental remediation liabilities are recorded when the specific obligation is considered probable and the costs are reasonably estimable. Subsequent recoveries from third parties, if any,
are recorded through discontinued operations when realized.  Fair Value of Financial Instruments. The carrying values
of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable approximate fair value due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. The estimated fair value of debt obligations is disclosed in Note 10.  
Foreign Currency Translation. Viad conducts its foreign operations primarily in Canada and the United Kingdom, and to a lesser
extent in certain other countries. The functional currency of Viad’s foreign subsidiaries is their local currency. Accordingly, for purposes of consolidation, Viad translates the assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries into U.S.
dollars at the foreign exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. The unrealized gains or losses resulting from the translation of these foreign denominated assets and liabilities are included as a component of accumulated other
comprehensive income in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. In addition, for purposes of consolidation, the revenues, expenses and gains and losses related to Viad’s foreign operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average
foreign exchange rates for the period. 
  F-7



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Revenue Recognition. Viad’s revenue recognition policies are as follows:
 Viad recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been
rendered, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. GES derives revenues primarily by providing show services to exhibitors participating in exhibitions and events and from the design, construction,
refurbishment of exhibit booths and holiday themed environments. Service revenue is recognized at the time services are performed. Exhibits and environments revenue is accounted for using the completed-contract method as contracts are typically
completed within three months of contract signing. The Travel & Recreation Group generates revenues through its attractions, hotels and transportation and sightseeing services. Revenues are recognized at the time services are performed.
 Share-Based Compensation. Viad recognizes and measures compensation costs related to all share-based payment awards
using the fair value method of accounting. These awards generally include restricted stock, performance-based restricted stock (“PBRS”), stock options and liability-based awards (including performance units, restricted stock units and
performance-based restricted stock units).  The fair value of restricted stock and PBRS awards are based on Viad’s stock
price on the date of grant. Restricted stock awards vest between three and five years from the date of grant. Share-based compensation expense related to restricted stock is recognized using the straight-line method over the requisite service period
of approximately three years except for certain awards with a five year vesting period whereby expense is recognized based on an accelerated multiple-awards approach over a five year period. For these awards, 40 percent of the shares vest on the
third anniversary of the grant and the remaining shares vest in 30 percent increments over the subsequent two anniversary dates. Viad issues restricted stock and PBRS awards from shares held in treasury. 
Share-based compensation expense related to PBRS awards is recognized based on an accelerated multiple-award approach over the requisite
service period of approximately three years. PBRS vests when certain incentive performance targets established in the year of grant are achieved at target levels. PBRS is subject to a graded vesting schedule whereby one third of the earned shares
vest after the first year and the remaining earned shares vest in one-third increments each year over the next two years on the first business day in January.  Future vesting of restricted stock and PBRS is generally subject to continued employment with Viad or its subsidiaries. Holders of restricted stock and PBRS have the right to receive dividends and vote
the shares, but may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber the stock, except to the extent restrictions have lapsed.  The fair value of each stock option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Share-based compensation expense related to stock option awards is recognized
using the straight-line method over the requisite service period of approximately five years. The exercise price of stock options is based on the market value of Viad’s common stock at the date of grant. Stock options granted also contain
certain forfeiture and non-compete provisions.  Liability-based awards (including grants of restricted stock units and PBRS
units awarded to key employees at certain of the Company’s Canadian operations) are recorded at estimated fair value, based on the number of units expected to vest and the level of achievement of predefined performance goals (where applicable)
and are remeasured on each balance sheet date based on Viad’s stock price until the time of settlement. To the extent earned, liability-based awards are settled in cash based on Viad’s stock price. Compensation expense related to
liability-based awards is recognized ratably over the requisite service period of approximately three years.  Common Stock
in Treasury. Common stock purchased for treasury is recorded at historical cost. Subsequent share reissuances are primarily related to share-based compensation programs and recorded at weighted-average cost. 
Income Per Common Share. Viad applies the two-class method in calculating income per common share as unvested share-based payment
awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are considered participating securities. Accordingly, such securities are included in the earnings allocation in calculating income per share. Furthermore, Viad funds its matching contributions
to employees’ 401(k) accounts through the Company’s leveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) feature of the Company’s 401(k) defined contribution plan. ESOP shares are treated as outstanding for income per share
calculations. 
  F-8



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Impact of Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued new guidance related to fair value measurement and
disclosure requirements, which is codified in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 820. The new guidance is intended to clarify the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements, and also changes
certain principles and disclosures. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on Viad’s financial condition
or results of operations.  In June 2011, the FASB issued new guidance related to the presentation of comprehensive income,
which is codified in ASC Topic 220. The new guidance requires entities to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income in one of two formats: 1) in a single continuous
statement, or 2) in two separate but consecutive statements. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2011, and will not have an impact on Viad’s financial condition or results of
operations.  In September 2011, the FASB issued new guidance related to goodwill impairment testing, which is codified in ASC
Topic 350. The new guidance simplifies how entities test goodwill for impairment and permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
carrying amount. If, after performing the assessment, an entity determines that it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. The
guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on Viad’s financial condition
or results of operations.  In September 2011, the FASB issued new guidance related to disclosures regarding employer’s
participation in multi-employer pension plans, which is codified in ASC Topic 715. The new guidance requires employers that participate in multi-employer pension plans to provide additional quantitative and qualitative information about their
involvement in those plans. The guidance is effective for annual periods for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this disclosure-only guidance did not impact Viad’s financial condition or results of operations.

Note 2. Share-Based Compensation 
Viad grants share-based compensation awards to officers, directors and certain key employees pursuant to the 2007 Viad
Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan (the “2007 Plan”). The 2007 Plan has a ten-year life and provides for the following types of awards: (a) incentive and non-qualified stock options; (b) restricted stock and restricted stock units;
(c) performance units or performance shares; (d) stock appreciation rights; (e) cash-based awards and (f) certain other stock-based awards. The number of shares of common stock available for grant under the 2007 Plan is limited
to 1,700,000 shares plus shares awarded under the 1997 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan (which terminated in May 2007) that subsequently cease for any reason to be subject to such awards (other than by reason of exercise or settlement of the awards
to the extent the shares are exercised for, or settled in, vested and non-forfeited shares) up to an aggregate maximum of 1,500,000 shares. As of December 31, 2011, there were 1,023,839 total shares available for future grant. 
The following table summarizes share-based compensation expense: 
 
















  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Stock options
  
$
537
  
 
$
447
  
 
$
469
  

 Restricted stock/PBRS
  
 
3,042
  
 
 
2,821
  
 
 
3,583
  

 Restricted stock units/PBRS units
  
 
120
  
 
 
253
  
 
 
151
  

 Performance unit incentive plan (“PUP”)
  
 
714
  
 
 
(3
) 
 
 
(1,110
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total share-based compensation before income tax benefit
  
 
4,413
  
 
 
3,518
  
 
 
3,093
  

 Income tax benefit
  
 
(1,594
) 
 
 
(1,225
) 
 
 
(1,125
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total share-based compensation, net of income tax benefit
  
$
2,819
  
 
$
2,293
  
 
$
1,968
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In addition, $124,000, $519,000 and $767,000 of costs associated with share-based compensation were
included in restructuring expense in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. No share-based compensation costs were capitalized during 2011, 2010 or 2009. 
  F-9



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Restricted Stock and PBRS. The following table summarizes restricted stock and
PBRS activity:   




















 
  
Restricted Stock
 
  
PBRS
 

 
  
 
 
 
 Weighted-Average
Grant Date
 
  
 
 
 
 Weighted-Average
Grant Date
 

 
  
Shares
 
 
Fair Value
 
  
Shares
 
 
Fair Value
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
 
358,285
  
 
$
34.25
  
  
 
94,828
  
 
$
34.56
  

 Granted
  
 
234,333
  
 
 
15.56
  
  
 
164,200
  
 
 
15.36
  

 Vested
  
 
(189,462
) 
 
 
31.48
  
  
 
(46,701
) 
 
 
34.21
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(12,346
) 
 
 
27.81
  
  
 
(37,400
) 
 
 
15.19
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
390,810
  
 
 
24.59
  
  
 
174,927
  
 
 
20.77
  

 Granted
  
 
157,900
  
 
 
19.30
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Vested
  
 
(65,961
) 
 
 
34.42
  
  
 
(29,547
) 
 
 
35.31
  

 Cancelled
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(126,550
) 
 
 
15.36
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(4,250
) 
 
 
22.55
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
478,499
  
 
 
21.51
  
  
 
18,830
  
 
 
33.02
  

 Granted
  
 
191,850
  
 
 
22.70
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Vested
  
 
(91,212
) 
 
 
31.31
  
  
 
(18,414
) 
 
 
33.42
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(7,115
) 
 
 
20.81
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
572,022
  
 
 
20.36
  
  
 
416
  
 
 
15.36
  


  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 



 The grant date fair value of restricted stock vesting during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.9 million, $2.3
million and $6.0 million, respectively. The grant date fair value of PBRS vesting during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $615,000, $1.0 million and $1.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the unamortized cost of all outstanding restricted
stock and PBRS awards was $4.0 million, which Viad expects to recognize in the consolidated financial statements over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.3 years. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company repurchased 28,627 shares for
$679,000, 28,407 shares for $573,000 and 72,294 shares for $1.2 million, respectively, related to tax withholding requirements on vested share-based awards.  Liability-Based Awards. The following table summarizes the liability-based award activity:   




























 
  
Restricted Stock Units
 
  
PBRS Units
 
  
PUP Awards
 

  
  
Units
 
  
Weighted-AverageGrant
DateFair Value
 
  
Units
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant
DateFair Value
 
  
Units
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant
DateFair Value
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
 
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
 
102,960
  
 
$
33.81
  

 Granted
  
 
13,700
  
  
 
15.36
  
  
 
13,900
  
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
13,700
  
  
 
15.36
  
  
 
13,900
  
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
102,960
  
 
 
33.81
  

 Granted
  
 
12,350
  
  
 
19.20
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Vested
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,958
) 
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cancelled
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(8,028
) 
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
26,050
  
  
 
17.18
  
  
 
3,914
  
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
102,960
  
 
 
33.81
  

 Granted
  
 
12,550
  
  
 
23.01
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
95,500
  
 
 
23.02
  

 Vested
  
 
—  
  
  



  
 
(1,958
) 
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cancelled
  
 
—  
  
  



  
 
—  
  
 



  
 
(102,960
) 
 
 
33.81
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
38,600
  
  
 
19.07
  
  
 
1,956
  
 
 
15.36
  
  
 
95,500
  
 
 
23.02
  


  
  
  
 
  



  
  
  
 
 



  
  
  
 
 



 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had aggregate liabilities recorded of $475,000 and $407,000,
respectively, related to restricted stock unit and PBRS unit liability awards. A portion of the 2009 PBRS unit awards vested effective December 31, 2009 and cash payouts of $52,000 and $37,000 were distributed in January 2011 and March 2010,
respectively. During 2010, 8,028 PBRS units were cancelled as the performance conditions related to those units were not achieved.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had a liability recorded of $714,000 related to PUP awards. The PUP awards for the 2007-2009 period vested effective December 31, 2009 and a cash payout of $19,000
was distributed in March 2010. No cash payouts of PUP awards were made during 2011. In March 2011, 102,960 PUP awards for the 2008-2010 period were cancelled as the performance conditions related to those awards were not achieved. No PUP awards were
granted in 2010 or 2009 and no other PUP awards vested during 2011, 2010 or 2009. Furthermore, there were no other cash settlements of PUP awards or any other share-based compensation awards. 
  F-10



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Stock Options. The following table summarizes stock option activity: 
 
















 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
  
OptionsExercisable
 

 Options outstanding at January 1, 2009
  
 
606,660
  
 
$
25.86
  
  
 
459,612
  

 Forfeited or expired
  
 
(64,942
) 
 
 
26.88
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Options outstanding at December 31, 2009
  
 
541,718
  
 
 
25.74
  
  
 
462,683
  

 Granted
  
 
280,900
  
 
 
19.20
  
  




 Exercised
  
 
(22,311
) 
 
 
23.21
  
  




 Forfeited or expired
  
 
(36,513
) 
 
 
26.34
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Options outstanding at December 31, 2010
  
 
763,794
  
 
 
23.38
  
  
 
451,194
  

 Exercised
  
 
(14,616
) 
 
 
20.14
  
  




 Forfeited or expired
  
 
(164,977
) 
 
 
23.88
  
  





  
  
  
 
 



  




 Options outstanding at December 31, 2011
  
 
584,201
  
 
 
23.32
  
  
 
396,688
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



 As of December 31, 2011, the total unrecognized cost related to non-vested stock option awards was
$667,000. Viad expects to recognize such costs in the consolidated financial statements over a weighted-average period of approximately 1.2 years. No stock options were granted in 2011 or 2009. 
The following table summarizes information concerning stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2011: 
 
























 
  
Options Outstanding
 
  
Options Exercisable
 

 Range of Exercise Prices
  
Shares
 
  
Weighted-AverageRemainingContractual Life
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 
  
Shares
 
  
Weighted-AverageExercise Price
 

 $18.40 to $19.20
  
 
265,084
  
  
 
8.0 years
  
  
$
19.20
  
  
 
94,891
  
  
$
19.19
  

 $19.57 to $26.07
  
 
134,732
  
  
 
0.9 years
  
  
 
23.41
  
  
 
130,732
  
  
 
23.36
  

 $26.31 to $26.37
  
 
101,860
  
  
 
0.1 years
  
  
 
26.31
  
  
 
101,860
  
  
 
26.31
  

 $26.47 to $38.44
  
 
82,525
  
  
 
1.7 years
  
  
 
32.77
  
  
 
69,205
  
  
 
32.31
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  




 $18.40 to $38.44
  
 
584,201
  
  
 
4.1 years
  
  
 
23.32
  
  
 
396,688
  
  
 
24.68
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  



 In addition to the above, Viad had stock options outstanding which were granted to employees of MoneyGram
International, Inc. (“MoneyGram”) prior to the spin-off of that company. As of December 31, 2011, there were 5,889 of such options outstanding and exercisable, both with exercise prices ranging from $19.57 to $26.07. The
weighted-average remaining contractual life of these options outstanding was less than one year. During 2011, 100 options were exercised by MoneyGram participants at an exercise price of $19.57. 
Stock options granted in 2010 were for a term of ten years and become exercisable one third after one year, another third after two years
and the balance after three years from the date of grant. Stock options granted between 2004 and 2008 were for contractual terms of seven years and become exercisable, based on a graded vesting schedule, in annual increments of 20 percent beginning
one year after the grant date and become fully exercisable after five years from the date of grant. Stock options granted in 2003 were for a term of ten years and became exercisable one third after one year, another third after two years and the
balance after three years from the date of grant. Stock options granted in calendar years 2002 and prior were for a contractual term of ten years and were exercisable 50 percent after one year from the date of grant with the balance exercisable
after two years from the date of grant.  The fair value of the 2010 stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model assuming Viad’s expected stock price volatility of 33.2 percent, a five year expected period of time the stock options will remain outstanding, an expected dividend yield on Viad common stock of 0.8
percent and a risk-free interest rate estimate of 2.44 percent. The expected dividend yield was based on Viad’s expectation of future dividend payouts. The volatility assumption was based on Viad’s daily historical stock price volatility
during the time period that corresponds to the expected weighted-average life of the option. The expected life (estimated period of time outstanding) of stock options granted was estimated based on historical exercise activity. The risk-free
interest rate assumption was based on the interest rate of a U.S. Treasury strip for a five-year term from the date the option was granted. 
  F-11



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Additional information pertaining to stock options is provided in the table below:
  





$,000000



$,000000



$,000000


 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Total intrinsic value of stock options outstanding
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,341
  
  
$
76
  

 Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised
  
$
325
  
  
$
544
  
  
$
—  
  

 Fair value of stock options vested
  
$
682
  
  
$
404
  
  
$
645
  

 Cash received from the exercise of stock options
  
$
296
  
  
$
593
  
  
$
—  
  

 Tax deficiencies realized for tax deductions related to stock option exercises and performance-based awards
  
$
325
  
  
$
524
  
  
$
1,251
  
 The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding in the table above represents the difference
between Viad’s closing stock price on December 31 of each year and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options. The intrinsic value of stock options outstanding therefore changes based on changes in the fair market
value of Viad’s common stock. 
Note 3. Impairment Losses 
During 2010, Viad recorded impairment losses of $302,000 at the Travel & Recreation Group. Of this amount,
$117,000 related to property and equipment and $185,000 to other intangible assets.  During 2009, Viad revised downward its
forecast for future revenues and earnings in the Marketing & Events Group based on continued declines in trade show marketing spending by its customers and a sharper than expected decline in retail holiday décor demand. As a result,
the Company had projected a more prolonged contraction in its trade show and retail marketing revenues than was previously anticipated. Viad recorded aggregate goodwill impairment losses of $98.3 million related to the Marketing & Events
Group, which is included in the consolidated statements of operations under the caption “Goodwill impairment losses.” The goodwill impairment losses consisted of $79.7 million related to the Marketing & Events U.S. segment and
$18.6 million related to the Marketing & Events International segment.  As a result of the factors discussed above,
Viad also recorded aggregate other intangible asset impairment losses of $14.0 million during 2009, which are included in the consolidated statements of operations under the caption “Intangible asset impairment losses.” Of the total
amount, $9.3 million of impairment losses related to intangible assets in the Marketing & Events U.S. segment and $4.7 million related to the Marketing & Events International segment. The impairment losses also resulted from
consolidation and integration activities within the Marketing & Events Group. Viad also recorded impairment losses of $1.7 million during 2009 related to touring exhibit assets related to the Marketing & Events U.S. segment and a
loss of $2.9 million related to the write-down of a non-strategic real estate asset held in the Travel & Recreation Group. These charges are included in the consolidated statements of operations under the caption “Other impairment
losses.” See Notes 6 and 8.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had goodwill of $133.7 million consisting of $84.9
million related to the Marketing & Events Group and $48.8 million related to the Travel & Recreation Group. Within the Marketing & Events Group, goodwill of $62.7 million relates to the Marketing & Events U.S.
segment and $22.2 million to the Marketing & Events International segment. For impairment testing purposes, the goodwill related to the Marketing & Events U.S. segment is assigned to and tested at the operating segment level.
Furthermore, the goodwill related to the Marketing & Events International segment is assigned to and tested at the component level within the segment’s geographical operations. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of goodwill
assigned to the reporting units in the United Kingdom (Melville) and Canada was $13.3 million and $8.9 million, respectively. Also, as of December 31, 2011, the Brewster, Glacier Park and Alaskan Park Properties operating segments (within the
Travel & Recreation Group) had goodwill of $41.2 million, $4.4 million and $3.2 million (acquired in September 2011), respectively. Brewster, Glacier Park and Alaskan Park Properties are considered reporting units for goodwill impairment
testing purposes.  As a result of the Company’s most recent analysis performed in the fourth quarter of 2011, the excess
of the estimated fair values over the carrying values (expressed as a percentage of the carrying amounts) under step one of the impairment test was 89 percent, 43 percent and 30 percent for each of the Marketing & Events Group reporting
units in the United States, the United Kingdom (Melville) and Canada, respectively. For the Brewster and Glacier Park reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over the carrying value was 44 percent and 48 percent, respectively, as of
the most recent impairment test. Significant reductions in the Company’s expected future revenue, operating income or cash flow forecasts and projections, or an increase in reporting unit cost of capital, could trigger additional impairment
testing, which may result in additional impairment losses. 
  F-12



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 4. Acquisition of Businesses 
On September 16, 2011, Viad acquired the Denali Backcountry Lodge and Denali Cabins for $15.3 million in cash.
Denali Backcountry Lodge is a 42 guest room lodge located within Denali National Park and Preserve in Alaska and Denali Cabins consist of 46 guest cabins near the entrance to Denali National Park and Preserve. Alaskan Park Properties is operated as
a separate business unit within the Travel & Recreation Group. The following information represents the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities of Alaskan Park Properties as of the date of acquisition: 
 





$,0000000


 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Other current assets
  
$
43
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
11,630
  

 Goodwill
  
 
3,184
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
626
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
15,483
  


  
  
  
 




 Customer deposits
  
 
(38 
) 

 Other current liabilities
  
 
(140 
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities acquired
  
 
(178 
) 


  
  
  
 

 Purchase price
  
$
15,305
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company recorded $3.2 million of goodwill in connection with the transaction, which is included in
the Travel & Recreation Group. The primary factor that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill relates to future growth opportunities. The entire amount of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes over a period of 15 years. The amount assigned to other intangible assets of $626,000 relates to customer relationships. Transaction costs related to the acquisition were insignificant. The results of operations of Alaskan Park Properties
have been included in Viad’s consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. There were no revenues related to Alaskan Park Properties included in Viad’s consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
December 31, 2011 due to the timing of the acquisition. However, a net loss of $306,000 related to Alaskan Park Properties was included in Viad’s 2011 consolidated statement of operations. 
On June 29, 2011, Viad acquired St. Mary Lodge & Resort (“St. Mary”) for $15.3 million in cash. St. Mary is a
115-room hotel located outside of Glacier National Park’s east entrance and is operated by Glacier Park within the Travel & Recreation Group. The following information represents the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities of
St. Mary as of the date of acquisition:   





$,0000000


 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
21
  

 Other current assets
  
 
701
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
12,525
  

 Goodwill
  
 
3,130
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
60
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
16,437
  


  
  
  
 




 Customer deposits
  
 
(684
) 

 Other current liabilities
  
 
(46
) 

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
(382
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities acquired
  
 
(1,112
) 


  
  
  
 

 Purchase price
  
$
15,325
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company recorded $3.1 million of goodwill in connection with the transaction, which is included in
the Travel & Recreation Group. The primary factor that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill relates to future growth opportunities. The entire amount of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes over a period of 15 years. The amount assigned to other intangible assets of $60,000 relates to a non-amortized business license. Transaction costs related to the acquisition were insignificant. The results of operations of St. Mary have
been included in Viad’s consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During 2011, revenues of $5.5 million and net income of $938,000 related to St. Mary were included in Viad’s consolidated statement of operations.

  F-13



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
On January 5, 2011, Viad acquired Grouse Mountain Lodge for $10.5 million in cash.
Grouse Mountain Lodge is a 145-room hotel located in Whitefish, Montana, and is operated by Glacier Park within the Travel & Recreation Group. The following information represents the amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities of Grouse
Mountain Lodge as of the date of acquisition:   





$,00000000


 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
9
  

 Other current assets
  
 
126
  

 Property and equipment
  
 
8,750
  

 Goodwill
  
 
1,331
  

 Other intangible assets
  
 
400
  


  
  
  
 

 Total assets acquired
  
 
10,616
  


  
  
  
 




 Customer deposits
  
 
(99
) 

 Other current liabilities
  
 
(12
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities acquired
  
 
(111
) 


  
  
  
 

 Purchase price
  
$
10,505
  


  
  
  
 
 The Company recorded $1.3 million of goodwill in connection with the transaction, which is included in
the Travel & Recreation Group. The primary factor that contributed to a purchase price resulting in the recognition of goodwill relates to future growth opportunities. The entire amount of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax
purposes over a period of 15 years. The amount assigned to other intangible assets of $400,000 relates to a non-amortized business license. Transaction costs related to the acquisition were insignificant. The results of operations of Grouse Mountain
Lodge have been included in Viad’s consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. During 2011, revenues of $4.2 million and net income of $283,000 related to Grouse Mountain Lodge were included in Viad’s consolidated
statement of operations.  The following table summarizes the unaudited pro forma results of operations attributable to Viad
for 2011 and 2010, assuming that the acquisitions of Denali Backcountry Lodge and Denali Cabins, St. Mary and Grouse Mountain Lodge had each been completed at the beginning of each year: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Revenue
  
$
950,273
  
  
$
861,059
  

 Income from continuing operations
  
$
10,376
  
  
$
1,688
  

 Net income
  
$
10,827
  
  
$
1,950
  

 Diluted net income per share
  
$
0.53
  
  
$
0.10
  

 Basic net income per share
  
$
0.53
  
  
$
0.10
  

Note 5. Inventories 
The components of inventories as of December 31 were as follows: 
 





$,0000000



$,0000000


 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Raw materials
  
$
18,297
  
  
$
18,488
  

 Work in process
  
 
17,528
  
  
 
20,182
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Inventories
  
$
35,825
  
  
$
38,670
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Note 6. Property and Equipment 
Property and equipment as of December 31 consisted of the following: 
 





$,0000000



$,0000000


 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Land
  
$
18,134
  
 
$
9,139
  

 Buildings and leasehold improvements
  
 
109,077
  
 
 
89,945
  

 Equipment and other
  
 
310,186
  
 
 
299,558
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
437,397
  
 
 
398,642
  

 Accumulated depreciation
  
 
(263,584
) 
 
 
(249,296
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Property and equipment, net
  
$
173,813
  
 
$
149,346
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-14



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Included in the “Equipment and other” caption above are capitalized costs
incurred in developing or obtaining internal use software. The net carrying amount of capitalized software was $14.9 million and $17.5 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
Depreciation expense was $28.4 million, $27.3 million and $26.5 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As discussed in Note 3
above, Viad recorded an impairment loss of $117,000 in 2010 related to a tour boat at the Travel & Recreation Group. Viad also recorded impairment losses of $1.7 million related to certain touring exhibit assets at the Marketing &
Events Group in 2009.  During 2009, Viad commenced a plan of sale related to a non-strategic real estate asset held in the
Travel & Recreation Group. This asset consisted of land, building and related improvements, which was expected to be sold within one year. Accordingly, the value of this asset was remeasured based on the estimated fair value, less cost to
sell. As a result of the remeasurement, the Company recorded a loss of $2.9 million in 2009, which is included in the consolidated statements of operations under the caption “Other impairment losses.” Viad completed the sale of this asset
in March 2010 for $14.3 million (net of selling costs). 
Note 7. Other Investments and Assets 
As of December 31 other investments and assets consisted of the following: 
 





$,000000



$,000000


 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Cash surrender value of life insurance
  
$
18,812
  
  
$
18,072
  

 Workers’ compensation insurance security deposits
  
 
4,658
  
  
 
3,906
  

 Other
  
 
7,581
  
  
 
9,385
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other investments and assets
  
$
31,051
  
  
$
31,363
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Note 8. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
As discussed in Note 3 above, Viad recorded impairment losses of $98.3 million related to goodwill during 2009 at the
Marketing & Events Group. During 2010, Viad recorded impairment losses of $185,000 related to other intangible assets at the Travel & Recreation Group. During 2009, Viad recorded impairment losses of $14.0 million related to other
intangible assets at the Marketing & Events Group.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had cumulative goodwill
impairment losses of $225.2 million since the adoption of the goodwill impairment testing provisions of ASC Topic 350.  The
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows:   





$,000000



$,000000



$,000000



$,000000


 
  
Marketing &Events U.S.
 
  
Marketing &EventsInternational
 
 
Travel &RecreationGroup
 
 
Total
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2010
  
$
62,686
  
  
$
22,472
  
 
$
39,773
  
 
$
124,931
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(17
) 
 
 
2,527
  
 
 
2,510
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
62,686
  
  
 
22,455
  
 
 
42,300
  
 
 
127,441
  

 Business acquisitions
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
7,645
  
 
 
7,645
  

 Foreign currency translation adjustments
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(257
) 
 
 
(1,135
) 
 
 
(1,392
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
62,686
  
  
$
22,198
  
 
$
48,810
  
 
$
133,694
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-15



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
A summary of other intangible assets as of December 31, 2011 is presented below:
  
















 
  
Gross CarryingValue
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net CarryingValue
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Amortized intangible assets:
  



  



 




 Customer contracts and relationships
  
$
3,122
  
  
$
(1,736
) 
 
$
1,386
  

 Other
  
 
68
  
  
 
(30
) 
 
 
38
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3,190
  
  
 
(1,766
) 
 
 
1,424
  

 Unamortized intangible assets:
  



  



 




 Business licenses
  
 
460
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
460
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,650
  
  
$
(1,766
) 
 
$
1,884
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 A summary of amortized other intangible assets as of December 31, 2010 is presented below:
  
















 
  
Gross CarryingValue
 
  
AccumulatedAmortization
 
 
Net CarryingValue
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Customer contracts and relationships
  
$
2,506
  
  
$
(1,135
) 
 
$
1,371
  

 Proprietary technology
  
 
517
  
  
 
(448
) 
 
 
69
  

 Design libraries
  
 
175
  
  
 
(110
) 
 
 
65
  

 Other
  
 
166
  
  
 
(108
) 
 
 
58
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
3,364
  
  
$
(1,801
) 
 
$
1,563
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Intangible asset amortization expense for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $772,000, $954,000 and $1.8 million,
respectively. The weighted-average amortization period of customer contracts and relationships and other amortizable intangible assets is approximately 3.3 years and 5.8 years, respectively. Estimated amortization expense related to amortized
intangible assets for future years is expected to be as follows:   








 
  
(in thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
539
  

 2013
  
$
498
  

 2014
  
$
237
  

 2015
  
$
90
  

 2016 and thereafter
  
$
60
  

  F-16



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 9. Accrued Liabilities and Other 
As of December 31 other current liabilities consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Continuing operations:
  



  




 Customer deposits
  
$
49,182
  
  
$
43,411
  

 Accrued compensation
  
 
22,587
  
  
 
17,599
  

 Self-insured liability accrual
  
 
6,697
  
  
 
8,278
  

 Accrued employee benefit costs
  
 
3,730
  
  
 
3,127
  

 Accrued restructuring
  
 
2,303
  
  
 
4,272
  

 Accrued sales and use taxes
  
 
1,668
  
  
 
2,990
  

 Accrued dividends
  
 
827
  
  
 
827
  

 Accrued foreign income taxes
  
 
234
  
  
 
2,852
  

 Other
  
 
8,185
  
  
 
11,084
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
95,413
  
  
 
94,440
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
  



  




 Environmental remediation liabilities
  
 
755
  
  
 
1,124
  

 Self-insured liability accrual
  
 
639
  
  
 
552
  

 Other
  
 
524
  
  
 
633
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
1,918
  
  
 
2,309
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other current liabilities
  
$
97,331
  
  
$
96,749
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31 other deferred items and liabilities consisted of the following: 
 












 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Continuing operations:
  



  




 Self-insured liability accrual
  
$
14,403
  
  
$
14,330
  

 Accrued compensation
  
 
5,538
  
  
 
5,129
  

 Accrued restructuring
  
 
4,647
  
  
 
3,724
  

 Foreign deferred tax liability
  
 
1,219
  
  
 
1,582
  

 Accrued income taxes
  
 
—  
  
  
 
146
  

 Other
  
 
5,900
  
  
 
3,945
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
31,707
  
  
 
28,856
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
  



  




 Self-insured liability accrual
  
 
5,351
  
  
 
6,898
  

 Environmental remediation liabilities
  
 
4,999
  
  
 
4,953
  

 Accrued income taxes
  
 
1,022
  
  
 
987
  

 Other
  
 
1,133
  
  
 
1,331
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
 
12,505
  
  
 
14,169
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total other deferred items and liabilities
  
$
44,212
  
  
$
43,025
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-17



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 10. Debt 
Long-term debt as of December 31 was as follows(1): 
 












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Capital lease obligations, 6.2% (2011) and 6.5% (2010) weighted-average interest rate at December 31, due to
2015
  
$
3,239
  
 
$
4,616
  

 Revolving credit agreement, 2.9% (2011) and 3.2% (2010) floating rate indexed to LIBOR at December 31, repaid in
2011
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,461
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
3,239
  
 
 
9,077
  

 Current portion
  
 
(2,018
) 
 
 
(6,639
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Long-term debt
  
$
1,221
  
 
$
2,438
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Rates shown are exclusive of the effects of commitment fees and other costs of long-term bank credit. 
Effective May 18, 2011, Viad entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Facility”). The
Credit Facility provides for a $130 million revolving line of credit, which may be increased up to an additional $50 million under certain circumstances. The term of the Credit Facility is five years (expiring on May 18, 2016) and borrowings
are to be used for general corporate purposes (including permitted acquisitions) and to support up to $50 million of letters of credit. The lenders have a first perfected security interest in all of the personal property of Viad and GES, including
65 percent of the capital stock of top-tier foreign subsidiaries. In April 2011, Viad paid off its outstanding borrowing under the previous credit facility of $4.2 million and as of December 31, 2011, Viad’s total debt of $3.2 million
consisted entirely of capital lease obligations. As of December 31, 2011, Viad had $125.4 million of capacity remaining under its Credit Facility reflecting outstanding letters of credit of $4.6 million. 
Borrowings under the Credit Facility (of which GES is a guarantor) are indexed to the prime rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate,
plus appropriate spreads tied to Viad’s leverage ratio. Commitment fees and letters of credit fees are also tied to Viad’s leverage ratio. The fees on the unused portion of the Credit Facility are currently 0.35 percent annually.
 Financial covenants include a fixed-charge coverage ratio of not less than 2.25 to 1 (and a ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1
after the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2012) and a leverage ratio of not greater than 2.50 to 1. Additionally, Viad must maintain a consolidated minimum cash and cash equivalents balance of $50 million. As of December 31, 2011, the
fixed-charge coverage and leverage ratios were 2.94 to 1 and 0.30 to 1, respectively. The terms of the Credit Facility allow Viad to pay up to $10 million in dividends in the aggregate in any calendar year and also allow the Company to purchase up
to $10 million in any calendar year of the Company’s common stock. Significant other covenants include limitations on: investments, additional indebtedness, sales/leases of assets, acquisitions, consolidations or mergers and liens on property.
As of December 31, 2011, Viad was in compliance with all covenants.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had certain
obligations under guarantees to third parties on behalf of its subsidiaries. These guarantees are not subject to liability recognition in the consolidated financial statements and relate to leased facilities entered into by the Company’s
subsidiary operations. The Company would generally be required to make payments to the respective third parties under these guarantees in the event that the related subsidiary could not meet its own payment obligations. The maximum potential amount
of future payments that Viad would be required to make under all guarantees existing as of December 31, 2011 would be $28.5 million. These guarantees relate to leased facilities and expire through October 2017. There are no recourse provisions
that would enable Viad to recover from third parties any payments made under the guarantees. Furthermore, there are no collateral or similar arrangements whereby Viad could recover payments. 
  F-18



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Aggregate annual maturities of capital lease obligations as of December 31, 2011
are as follows:   








 
  
(in thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
2,450
  

 2013
  
 
1,075
  

 2014
  
 
231
  

 2015
  
 
42
  


  
  
  
 

 Total
  
 
3,798
  

 Less: Amount representing interest
  
 
(559
) 


  
  
  
 

 Present value of minimum lease payments
  
$
3,239
  


  
  
  
 
 The gross amount of assets recorded under capital leases as of December 31, 2011 was $6.6 million
and accumulated amortization was $3.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, the gross amount of assets recorded under capital leases and accumulated amortization was $6.4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. The amortization charges related to
assets recorded under capital leases are included in depreciation expense. See Note 6.  The weighted-average interest rate on
total debt was 7.8 percent, 12.0 percent and 7.6 percent, for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average interest rates include the effects of commitment fees and other costs of long-term bank credit. 
The estimated fair value of total debt was $3.0 million and $9.2 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The fair
value of debt was estimated by discounting the future cash flows using rates currently available for debt of similar terms and maturity. 
Note 11. Fair Value Measurements 
The fair value of an asset or liability is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value guidance requires an entity to maximize the use of quoted prices and other observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable
inputs when measuring fair value, and also establishes a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value as follows:  Level 1 – Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.  Level 2
– Observable inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either                 directly or indirectly.
 Level 3 – Unobservable inputs to the valuation methodology that are significant to the measurement of fair value. 
  F-19



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Viad measures its money market mutual funds and certain other mutual fund investments at
fair value on a recurring basis using Level 1 inputs. The fair value information related to these assets is summarized in the following tables:   





$,000000000



$,000000000



$,000000000



$,000000000


 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011 Using
 

 
  
December 31,2011
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservedInputs(Level
 3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Money market funds
  
$
20,862
  
  
$
20,862
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Other mutual funds
  
 
1,373
  
  
 
1,373
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
22,235
  
  
$
22,235
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  





$,000000000



$,000000000



$,000000000



$,000000000


 
  
 
 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010 Using
 

 
  
December 31,2010
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs
(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservedInputs(Level
 3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Money market funds
  
$
31,285
  
  
$
31,285
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Other mutual funds
  
 
1,744
  
  
 
1,744
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
33,029
  
  
$
33,029
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had investments in money market mutual funds of $20.9 million
and $31.3 million, respectively, which are included in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Cash and cash equivalents.” These investments are classified as available-for-sale and were recorded at fair value. There have been
no realized or unrealized gains or losses related to these investments and the Company has not experienced any redemption restrictions with respect to any of the money market mutual funds. 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had investments in other mutual funds of $1.4 million and $1.7 million, respectively, which
are classified in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Other investments and assets.” These investments were classified as available-for-sale and were recorded at fair value. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were
unrealized gains of $366,000 ($222,000 after-tax) and $462,000 ($282,000 after-tax), respectively, which were included in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).” 
The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and accounts payable approximate fair value due to the short-term
maturities of these instruments. The estimated fair value of debt obligations is disclosed in Note 10.   
  F-20



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 12. Income Per Share 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of diluted and basic per share computations for
net income (loss) attributable to Viad:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Basic net income (loss) per share
  



 



 




 Numerator:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
9,210
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
(104,711
) 

 Less: Allocation to non-vested shares
  
 
(248
) 
 
 
(11
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) allocated to Viad common stockholders
  
$
8,962
  
 
$
432
  
 
$
(104,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Denominator:
  



 



 




 Weighted-average outstanding common shares
  
 
19,719
  
 
 
19,955
  
 
 
19,960
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad common stockholders
  
$
0.45
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
(5.25
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Diluted net income (loss) per share
  



 



 




 Numerator:
  



 



 




 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
9,210
  
 
$
443
  
 
$
(104,711
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Denominator:
  



 



 




 Weighted-average outstanding shares
  
 
19,719
  
 
 
19,955
  
 
 
19,960
  

 Additional dilutive shares related to share-based compensation
  
 
336
  
 
 
322
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted-average outstanding and potentially dilutive shares
  
 
20,055
  
 
 
20,277
  
 
 
19,960
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad common stockholders (1)
  
$
0.45
  
 
$
0.02
  
 
$
(5.25
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  


(1) 
 Diluted income per share amount cannot exceed basic income per share. 
Options to purchase 304,000, 474,000 and 627,000 shares of common stock were outstanding during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, but
were not included in the computation of dilutive shares outstanding because the effect would be anti-dilutive. Additionally, 336,000 and 322,000 share-based compensation awards were considered dilutive and included in the computation of diluted
income per share in 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2009, 294,000 share-based compensation awards, that would normally have been considered dilutive and thus included as outstanding for purposes of computing diluted income per share, were
excluded due to a net loss reported in 2009, thereby making such shares anti-dilutive. 
Note 13. Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
Viad funds its matching contributions to employees’ 401(k) accounts through the Company’s ESOP portion of the
Viad Corp Capital Accumulation Plan (the “401(k) Plan”). All eligible employees of Viad and its participating affiliates, other than certain employees covered by collective-bargaining agreements that do not expressly provide for
participation of such employees in an employee stock ownership plan, may participate in the employee stock ownership feature within the 401(k) Plan.  In 1989, the ESOP borrowed $40.0 million (guaranteed by Viad) to purchase treasury shares from the Company. In July 2004, Viad borrowed $12.4 million under its revolving credit agreement to pay in full
the outstanding ESOP loan and obtain release of Viad from its guarantee of the loan. In connection with the loan payoff, the ESOP entered into a $12.4 million loan with Viad maturing in June 2009 calling for minimum quarterly principal payments of
$250,000 plus interest. The same amount, representing unearned employee benefits, was recorded as a reduction of stockholders’ equity. In 2007, the loan agreement between the ESOP and Viad was extended to December 31, 2016. As of
December 31, 2011, the balance of the ESOP loan was $3.0 million and is included in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Unearned employee benefits and other.” The liability is reduced as the ESOP makes principal
payments on the borrowing, and the amount offsetting stockholders’ equity is reduced as stock is allocated to employees and benefits are charged to expense. The 401(k) Plan will repay the loan using Viad contributions and dividends received on
the unallocated Viad shares held by the 401(k) Plan. 
  F-21



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Information regarding ESOP transactions is as follows: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Amounts paid by ESOP for:
  



  



  




 Debt repayment
  
$
1,490
  
  
$
1,518
  
  
$
1,964
  

 Interest
  
 
8
  
  
 
12
  
  
 
22
  

 Amounts received from Viad as:
  



  



  




 Contributions
  
 
1,435
  
  
 
1,444
  
  
 
1,872
  

 Dividends
  
 
63
  
  
 
86
  
  
 
114
  
 Shares were released for allocation to participants based upon the ratio of the current year’s
principal and interest payments to the sum of the total principal and interest payments expected over the remaining life of the plan. Viad recorded expense of $1.6 million, $1.5 million and $1.4 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 Unallocated shares held by the 401(k) Plan totaled 293,280 and 440,369 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Shares allocated during 2011 and 2010 totaled 147,089 and 149,490, respectively. 
Note 14. Preferred Stock Purchase Rights 
Viad has one Preferred Stock Purchase Right (“Right”) outstanding on each outstanding share of its common
stock pursuant to a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Agreement”) adopted by the Board of Directors on February 28, 2002, as adjusted in connection with Viad’s one-for-four reverse stock split on July 1, 2004, and as
amended on February 28, 2012. The Rights Agreement is designed to assist Viad’s Board of Directors in enabling all of Viad’s shareholders to realize the long-term value of their investment in the Company, in ensuring that all of
Viad’s shareholders receive fair and equal treatment in the event of any proposed takeover of the Company and in protecting Viad and its shareholders from abusive takeover tactics. Each Right represents the right to purchase one twenty-fifth of
a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Rights Agreement, Rights become exercisable ten days following the public announcement of the acquisition by a person or group of beneficial
ownership of 20 percent or more of Viad’s outstanding common stock. If such a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of the common stock, each Right (other than such person’s or group’s Rights, which will
become void) will entitle the holder to purchase, at the Right’s then-current exercise price, Viad’s common stock having a market value equal to twice the exercise price. Moreover, at any time after a person or group acquires 20 percent or
more of Viad’s outstanding common stock (unless such person or group acquires 50 percent or more), the Board of Directors may exchange one share of Viad’s common stock for each outstanding right (other than rights owned by such person or
group, which would have become void). In addition, if the Company is acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction after a person has acquired 20 percent or more of Viad’s outstanding common stock, each Right will entitle its
holder to purchase, at the Right’s then-current exercise price, a number of the acquiring company’s common shares having a market value of twice the exercise price.  The Board of Directors may redeem the Rights at an initial redemption price of $0.01 per Right at any time before any person or group acquires 20 percent or more of Viad’s outstanding common stock.
If not redeemed, the Rights will expire on February 28, 2015, subject to early termination on February 28, 2013, if the Rights Agreement is not ratified by shareholders before such date. In addition, if Viad receives a “qualifying
offer” (which includes certain all-cash fully financed tender offers or exchange offers for all of Viad’s outstanding common stock), under certain circumstances, holders of 10 percent of Viad’s outstanding common stock (excluding
shares held by the offeror and its affiliates and associates) may direct the Board of Directors to call a special meeting of shareholders to consider a resolution exempting such “qualifying offer” from the Rights Agreement. 
Viad has authorized 5 million and 2 million shares of Preferred Stock and Junior Participating Preferred Stock, respectively,
none of which is outstanding. The 2 million shares of Junior Participating Preferred Stock have been reserved for issuance in connection with the Rights. 
  F-22



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 15. Income Taxes 
The following represents a reconciliation of income tax expense (benefit) and the amount that would be computed using
the statutory federal income tax rates:   




























 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Computed income tax expense (benefit) at statutory federal income tax rate of 35%
  
$
4,613
  
 
 
35.0
% 
 
$
896
  
 
 
35.0
% 
 
$
(46,706
) 
 
 
35.0
% 

 State income taxes, net of federal provision
  
 
(100
) 
 
 
(0.8
%) 
 
 
(172
) 
 
 
(6.7
%) 
 
 
(6,055
) 
 
 
4.5
% 

 Tax resolutions, net
  
 
(103
) 
 
 
(0.8
%) 
 
 
(514
) 
 
 
(20.1
%) 
 
 
(3,527
) 
 
 
2.6
% 

 Nondeductible goodwill impairments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
26,831
  
 
 
(20.1
%) 

 Change in enacted tax law
  
 
—  
  
 
 
0.0
% 
 
 
1,279
  
 
 
50.0
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.0
% 

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
(55
) 
 
 
(0.4
%) 
 
 
249
  
 
 
9.7
% 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.0
% 

 Other, net
  
 
(467
) 
 
 
(3.5
%) 
 
 
4
  
 
 
0.2
% 
 
 
818
  
 
 
(0.5
%) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
3,888
  
 
 
29.5
% 
 
$
1,742
  
 
 
68.1
% 
 
$
(28,639
) 
 
 
21.5
% 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and a related measure, the Health Care and
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, were both enacted into law. As a result of this legislation, the tax deductions for the portion of the prescription drug costs for which Viad receives a Medicare Part D subsidy have been eliminated for tax years
beginning after December 31, 2012. Accordingly, during 2010, Viad reduced its deferred tax asset related to its postretirement benefit plan liability to reflect the change in the tax law. The reduction in the deferred tax asset resulted in an
increase to income tax expense of $1.3 million in 2010.  Viad is subject to regular and recurring audits by the taxing
authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Company conducts or had previously conducted operations. These include U.S. federal and most state jurisdictions, and certain foreign jurisdictions including Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany.
 Viad exercises judgment in determining its income tax provision due to transactions, credits and calculations where the
ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad did not have any accrued gross liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions for continuing operations. As of December 31, 2010, Viad had accrued
interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions for continuing operations of $146,000. Viad classifies interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities as a component of income tax expense. During 2011 and 2010, Viad recorded
tax-related interest expense credits of $146,000 and $261,000, respectively.  During 2011, 2010 and 2009, Viad recorded tax
benefits related to the favorable resolution of tax matters in continuing operations of $103,000, $514,000 and $3.5 million, respectively. These tax resolutions primarily represent the reversal of amounts accrued for tax and related interest and
penalties in connection with uncertain tax positions which were effectively settled or for which there was a lapse of the applicable statute of limitations.  In addition to the above, Viad had accrued gross liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions for discontinued operations of $636,000 as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010. In addition, as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions for discontinued operations of $386,000 and $351,000, respectively. Future tax resolutions or settlements that may occur related to these
uncertain tax positions would be recorded through discontinued operations (net of federal tax effects, if applicable). Viad does not expect any of the unrecognized tax benefits to be recognized during the next 12 months. 
  F-23



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
The following represents a reconciliation of the total amounts of liabilities associated
with uncertain tax positions (excluding interest and penalties):   
















 
  
ContinuingOperations
 
 
DiscontinuedOperations
 
  
Total
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
$
3,487
  
 
$
636
  
  
$
4,123
  

 Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years
  
 
(2,702
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(2,702
) 

 Reductions for tax settlements
  
 
(174
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(174
) 

 Reductions for lapse of applicable statutes
  
 
(611
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
(611
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
—  
  
 
 
636
  
  
 
636
  

 Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Reductions for tax settlements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Reductions for lapse of applicable statutes
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
—  
  
 
 
636
  
  
 
636
  

 Reductions for tax positions taken in prior years
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Reductions for tax settlements
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Reductions for lapse of applicable statutes
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
—  
  
 
$
636
  
  
$
636
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Viad’s 2008 through 2011 U.S. federal tax years and various state tax years from 2007 through 2011
remain subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities. Additionally, 2005 and 2006 remain subject to examination due to net operating loss carryback claims. In addition, tax years from 2007 through 2011 related to Viad’s foreign taxing
jurisdictions also remain subject to examination.  Viad classifies liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions as
non-current liabilities in its consolidated balance sheets unless they are expected to be paid within the next year. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions (including interest and penalties) of
$1.0 million and $1.1 million, respectively, were classified as non-current liabilities.  Deferred income tax assets and
liabilities included in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31 related to the following:   












 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Deferred tax assets:
  



 




 Tax credit carryforwards
  
$
25,219
  
 
$
18,631
  

 Pension, compensation and other employee benefits
  
 
22,103
  
 
 
20,903
  

 Provisions for losses
  
 
16,038
  
 
 
17,474
  

 Net operating loss carryforward
  
 
3,086
  
 
 
3,036
  

 State income taxes
  
 
2,400
  
 
 
1,758
  

 Deferred income
  
 
125
  
 
 
1,020
  

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
—  
  
 
 
150
  

 Other deferred income tax assets
  
 
1,745
  
 
 
4,126
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax assets
  
 
70,716
  
 
 
67,098
  

 Valuation allowance
  
 
(356
) 
 
 
(411
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
 
70,360
  
 
 
66,687
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Property and equipment
  
 
(7,729
) 
 
 
(10,157
) 

 Goodwill and other intangible assets
  
 
(1,006
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Other deferred income tax liabilities
  
 
(287
) 
 
 
(180
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total deferred tax liabilities
  
 
(9,022
) 
 
 
(10,337
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Foreign deferred tax liabilities included above
  
 
1,617
  
 
 
1,582
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 United States deferred tax assets
  
$
62,955
  
 
$
57,932
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-24



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Viad is required to estimate and record provisions for income taxes in each of the
jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Accordingly, the Company must estimate its actual current income tax liability, and assess temporary differences arising from the treatment of items for tax purposes as compared to the treatment for
accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities which are included in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets. The Company must assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable
income and to the extent that recovery is not likely, a valuation allowance must be established. The Company uses significant judgment in forming a conclusion regarding the recoverability of its deferred tax assets and evaluates the available
positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more-likely-than-not that its deferred tax assets will be realized in the future. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had gross deferred tax assets of $70.7 million and $67.1 million,
respectively. These deferred tax assets reflect the expected future tax benefits to be realized upon reversal of deductible temporary differences, and the utilization of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. 
The Company considered all available positive and negative evidence regarding the future recoverability of its deferred tax assets,
including the Company’s recent operating history and projected taxable income, taxpaying history and future reversals of deferred tax liabilities. Furthermore, Viad also considered the fact that goodwill impairment losses are not tax deductible
and thus did not contribute to tax losses. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had state net operating loss carryforwards of $91.9 million and $79.0 million, respectively, for which the Company had deferred tax assets of $2.1 million and
$2.2 million, respectively. The state net operating loss carryforwards expire on various dates from 2016 through 2031. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had a valuation allowance of $356,000 and $411,000, respectively, related to those
state deferred tax assets. With respect to all other deferred tax assets, management believes that recovery from future taxable income is more-likely-than-not.  As noted above, Viad uses considerable judgment in forming a conclusion regarding the recoverability of its deferred tax assets. As a result, there are inherent uncertainties regarding the ultimate
realization of these assets, which is primarily dependent on Viad’s ability to generate sufficient taxable income in future periods. In future periods, it is reasonably possible that the relative weight of positive and negative evidence
regarding the recoverability of Viad’s deferred tax assets may change, which could result in a material increase in the Company’s valuation allowance. If such an increase in the valuation allowance were to occur, it would result in
increased income tax expense in the period the assessment was made.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had tax credit
carryforwards related to alternative minimum tax of $9.9 million that may be carried forward indefinitely. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, Viad had foreign tax credit carryforwards of $15.3 million, of which $1.9 million expire in 2019,
$8.3 million expire in 2020 and $5.1 million expire in 2021.  Viad has not recorded deferred taxes on certain historical
unremitted earnings of its Canadian subsidiaries as management intends to reinvest those earnings in its Canadian operations. As of December 31, 2011, the incremental unrecognized tax liability (net of estimated foreign tax credits) related to
those undistributed earnings was approximately $2.3 million. To the extent that circumstances change and it becomes apparent that some or all of those undistributed earnings will be remitted to the U.S., Viad would accrue income taxes attributable
to such remittance.  Income tax expense (benefit) consisted of the following: 
 
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Current:
  



 



 




 United States:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
(4,643
) 
 
$
(9,286
) 
 
$
(18,057
) 

 State
  
 
1,292
  
 
 
677
  
 
 
(9,621
) 

 Foreign
  
 
8,163
  
 
 
9,607
  
 
 
7,388
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
4,812
  
 
 
998
  
 
 
(20,290
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred
  



 



 




 United States:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
992
  
 
 
3,212
  
 
 
(9,136
) 

 State
  
 
(1,560
) 
 
 
(939
) 
 
 
(69
) 

 Foreign
  
 
(356
) 
 
 
(1,529
) 
 
 
856
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
(924
) 
 
 
744
  
 
 
(8,349
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
$
3,888
  
 
$
1,742
  
 
$
(28,639
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-25



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recorded tax deficiencies of $325,000, $524,000
and $1.3 million, respectively, related to the vesting of restricted stock and PBRS and the exercise of stock options, which were recorded as charges to stockholders’ equity. 
Eligible subsidiaries (including sold and discontinued businesses up to their respective disposition dates) are included in the
consolidated federal and other applicable income tax returns of Viad.  United States and foreign income (loss) from continuing
operations before income taxes was as follows:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 United States
  
$
(16,227
) 
 
$
(22,592
) 
 
$
(128,789
) 

 Foreign
  
 
29,407
  
 
 
25,151
  
 
 
(4,658
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
13,180
  
 
$
2,559
  
 
$
(133,447
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

Note 16. Pension and Postretirement Benefits 
Domestic Plans. Viad has trusteed, frozen defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees which are
funded by the Company. Viad also maintains certain unfunded defined benefit pension plans which provide supplemental benefits to select management employees. These plans use traditional defined benefit formulas based on years of service and final
average compensation. Funding policies provide that payments to defined benefit pension trusts shall be at least equal to the minimum funding required by applicable regulations. 
Viad also has certain defined benefit postretirement plans that provide medical and life insurance for certain eligible employees,
retirees and dependents. The related postretirement benefit liabilities are recognized over the period that services are provided by employees. In addition, Viad retained the obligations for these benefits for retirees of certain sold businesses.
While the plans have no funding requirements, Viad may fund the plans.  The components of net periodic benefit cost and other
amounts recognized in other comprehensive income of Viad’s pension plans included the following:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net Periodic Benefit Cost
  



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
121
  
 
$
145
  
 
$
184
  

 Interest cost
  
 
1,189
  
 
 
1,242
  
 
 
1,300
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(563
) 
 
 
(588
) 
 
 
(627
) 

 Amortization of prior service cost
  
 
—  
  
 
 
41
  
 
 
44
  

 Recognized net actuarial loss
  
 
457
  
 
 
572
  
 
 
367
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
 
1,204
  
 
 
1,412
  
 
 
1,268
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Other Changes in Plan Assets and Benefits Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
  



 



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
 
1,589
  
 
 
1,190
  
 
 
2,746
  

 Reversal of amortization item:
  



 



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
 
(457
) 
 
 
(572
) 
 
 
(367
) 

 Prior service cost
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(41
) 
 
 
(44
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive income
  
 
1,132
  
 
 
577
  
 
 
2,335
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net period benefit cost and other comprehensive income
  
$
2,336
  
 
$
1,989
  
 
$
3,603
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-26



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
The components of net periodic benefit cost and other amounts recognized in other
comprehensive income of Viad’s postretirement benefit plans included the following:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Net Periodic Benefit Cost
  



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
128
  
 
$
130
  
 
$
68
  

 Interest cost
  
 
868
  
 
 
1,039
  
 
 
1,124
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(135
) 
 
 
(160
) 
 
 
(205
) 

 Amortization of prior service credit
  
 
(1,277
) 
 
 
(1,171
) 
 
 
(1,292
) 

 Recognized net actuarial loss
  
 
533
  
 
 
608
  
 
 
358
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
 
117
  
 
 
446
  
 
 
53
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Other Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
  



 



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
 
24
  
 
 
421
  
 
 
3,836
  

 Prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,197
) 
 
 
(347
) 

 Reversal of amortization item:
  



 



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
 
(533
) 
 
 
(608
) 
 
 
(358
) 

 Prior service credit
  
 
1,277
  
 
 
1,171
  
 
 
1,292
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)
  
 
768
  
 
 
(213
) 
 
 
4,423
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net period benefit cost and other comprehensive income (loss)
  
$
885
  
 
$
233
  
 
$
4,476
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The following table indicates the funded status of the plans as of December 31: 
 




























 
  
Funded Plans
 
 
Unfunded Plans
 
 
PostretirementBenefit
Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Change in benefit obligation:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
12,853
  
 
$
12,322
  
 
$
10,352
  
 
$
9,776
  
 
$
18,987
  
 
$
19,728
  

 Service cost
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
121
  
 
 
145
  
 
 
128
  
 
 
130
  

 Interest cost
  
 
678
  
 
 
703
  
 
 
511
  
 
 
539
  
 
 
868
  
 
 
1,039
  

 Actuarial adjustments
  
 
1,157
  
 
 
655
  
 
 
609
  
 
 
575
  
 
 
106
  
 
 
526
  

 Plan amendments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,197
) 

 Benefits paid
  
 
(750
) 
 
 
(827
) 
 
 
(710
) 
 
 
(683
) 
 
 
(1,422
) 
 
 
(1,239
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
 
13,938
  
 
 
12,853
  
 
 
10,883
  
 
 
10,352
  
 
 
18,667
  
 
 
18,987
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Change in plan assets:
  



 



 



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
 
8,858
  
 
 
8,814
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,678
  
 
 
3,200
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
741
  
 
 
629
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
217
  
 
 
264
  

 Company contributions
  
 
997
  
 
 
242
  
 
 
710
  
 
 
683
  
 
 
645
  
 
 
453
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(750
) 
 
 
(827
) 
 
 
(710
) 
 
 
(683
) 
 
 
(1,422
) 
 
 
(1,239
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
 
9,846
  
 
 
8,858
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,118
  
 
 
2,678
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 









 Funded status at end of year
  
$
(4,092
) 
 
$
(3,995
) 
 
$
(10,883
) 
 
$
(10,352
) 
 
$
(16,549
) 
 
$
(16,309
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-27



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
The net amounts recognized in Viad’s consolidated balance sheets under the caption
“Pension and postretirement benefits” as of December 31 were as follows:   




























 
  
Funded Plans
 
  
Unfunded Plans
 
  
PostretirementBenefit Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Other current liabilities
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
717
  
  
$
708
  
  
$
440
  
  
$
488
  

 Non-current liabilities
  
 
4,092
  
  
 
3,995
  
  
 
10,166
  
  
 
9,644
  
  
 
16,109
  
  
 
15,821
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Net amount recognized
  
$
4,092
  
  
$
3,995
  
  
$
10,883
  
  
$
10,352
  
  
$
16,549
  
  
$
16,309
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2011 consisted of:
  




















 
  
FundedPlans
 
 
UnfundedPlans
 
 
PostretirementBenefit Plans
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net actuarial loss
  
$
8,238
  
 
$
3,911
  
 
$
7,029
  
 
$
19,178
  

 Prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(4,013
) 
 
 
(4,013
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
8,238
  
 
 
3,911
  
 
 
3,016
  
 
 
15,165
  

 Less tax effect
  
 
(3,146
) 
 
 
(1,493
) 
 
 
(1,153
) 
 
 
(5,792
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
5,092
  
 
$
2,418
  
 
$
1,863
  
 
$
9,373
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income as of December 31, 2010 consisted of:
  




















 
  
FundedPlans
 
 
UnfundedPlans
 
 
PostretirementBenefit Plans
 
 
Total
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Net actuarial loss
  
$
7,564
  
 
$
3,453
  
 
$
7,538
  
 
$
18,555
  

 Prior service credit
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(5,290
) 
 
 
(5,290
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Subtotal
  
 
7,564
  
 
 
3,453
  
 
 
2,248
  
 
 
13,265
  

 Less tax effect
  
 
(2,889
) 
 
 
(1,320
) 
 
 
(858
) 
 
 
(5,067
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
4,675
  
 
$
2,133
  
 
$
1,390
  
 
$
8,198
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The estimated net actuarial loss for the pension plans that is expected to be amortized from accumulated
other comprehensive income into net periodic pension cost in 2012 is approximately $520,000. The estimated net actuarial loss for the postretirement benefit plans that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net
periodic benefit cost in 2012 is approximately $617,000. The estimated prior service credit for the postretirement benefit plans that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit credit in 2012 is
approximately $1.1 million. 
  F-28



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
The fair value of the domestic plans’ assets by asset class were as follows:
  




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011
 

 Asset Category
  
Total
 
  
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservedInputs(Level 3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Domestic Pension Plans:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. equity securities
  
$
2,849
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,849
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equity securities
  
 
914
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
914
  
  
 
—  
  

 Aggregate fixed income securities
  
 
2,373
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,373
  
  
 
—  
  

 Long-term fixed income securities
  
 
3,412
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
3,412
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash
  
 
72
  
  
 
72
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
226
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
226
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
9,846
  
  
$
72
  
  
$
9,774
  
  
$
—  
  







 Postretirement Benefit Plans:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. equity securities
  
$
283
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
283
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equity securities
  
 
89
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
89
  
  
 
—  
  

 Aggregate fixed income securities
  
 
1,034
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,034
  
  
 
—  
  

 Long-term fixed income securities
  
 
490
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
490
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash
  
 
222
  
  
 
222
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
2,118
  
  
$
222
  
  
$
1,896
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010
 

 Asset Category
  
Total
 
  
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservedInputs(Level 3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Domestic Pension Plans:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. equity securities
  
$
2,591
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
2,591
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equity securities
  
 
875
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
875
  
  
 
—  
  

 Aggregate fixed income securities
  
 
2,108
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,108
  
  
 
—  
  

 Long-term fixed income securities
  
 
2,975
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
2,975
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash
  
 
77
  
  
 
77
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
232
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
232
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
8,858
  
  
$
77
  
  
$
8,781
  
  
$
—  
  







 Postretirement Benefit Plans:
  



  



  



  




 U.S. equity securities
  
$
362
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
362
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equity securities
  
 
121
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
121
  
  
 
—  
  

 Aggregate fixed income securities
  
 
1,294
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,294
  
  
 
—  
  

 Long-term fixed income securities
  
 
589
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
589
  
  
 
—  
  

 Cash
  
 
312
  
  
 
312
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
2,678
  
  
$
312
  
  
$
2,366
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Viad employs a total return investment approach whereby a mix of equities and fixed income securities is
used to maximize the long-term return of plan assets for a prudent level of risk. Risk tolerance is established through careful consideration of plan liabilities, plan funded status, and corporate financial condition. The investment portfolio
contains a diversified blend of equity and fixed income securities. Furthermore, equity securities are diversified across U.S. and non-U.S. stocks, as well as growth and value. Investment risk is measured and monitored on an ongoing basis through
quarterly investment portfolio reviews and annual liability measurements. 
  F-29



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Viad utilizes a building-block approach in determining the long-term expected rate of
return on plan assets. Historical markets are studied and long-term historical relationships between equity securities and fixed income securities are preserved consistent with the widely accepted capital market principle that assets with higher
volatility generate a greater return over the long run. Current market factors such as inflation and interest rates are evaluated before long-term capital market assumptions are determined. The long-term portfolio return also considers
diversification and rebalancing. Peer data and historical returns are reviewed relative to Viad’s assumed rates for reasonableness and appropriateness.  The following pension and postretirement benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid, as well as the Medicare Part D subsidy expected to be received:
  




















 
  
FundedPlans
 
  
UnfundedPlans
 
  
PostretirementBenefitPlans
 
  
MedicarePart D 
SubsidyReceipts
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 2012
  
$
750
  
  
$
734
  
  
$
1,810
  
  
$
328
  

 2013
  
 
785
  
  
 
827
  
  
 
1,856
  
  
 
334
  

 2014
  
 
776
  
  
 
805
  
  
 
1,848
  
  
 
339
  

 2015
  
 
802
  
  
 
791
  
  
 
1,834
  
  
 
341
  

 2016
  
 
751
  
  
 
767
  
  
 
1,817
  
  
 
339
  

 2017-2021
  
 
4,184
  
  
 
4,173
  
  
 
8,365
  
  
 
1,606
  
 Foreign Pension Plans. Certain of Viad’s foreign operations also maintain trusteed defined
benefit pension plans covering certain employees which are funded by the companies and unfunded defined benefit pension plans providing supplemental benefits to select management employees. These plans use traditional defined benefit formulas based
on years of service and final average compensation. Funding policies provide that payments to defined benefit pension trusts shall be at least equal to the minimum funding required by applicable regulations. The components of net periodic benefit
cost and other amounts recognized in other comprehensive income included the following:   
















 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

Net Periodic Benefit Cost
  



 



 




 Service cost
  
$
366
  
 
$
304
  
 
$
269
  

 Interest cost
  
 
729
  
 
 
780
  
 
 
748
  

 Expected return on plan assets
  
 
(665
) 
 
 
(597
) 
 
 
(527
) 

 Recognized net actuarial loss
  
 
73
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
11
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net periodic benefit cost
  
 
503
  
 
 
541
  
 
 
501
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 






 Other Changes in Plan Assets and Benefit Obligations Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
  



 



 




 Net actuarial loss
  
 
1,936
  
 
 
299
  
 
 
1,177
  

 Reversal of amortization of net actuarial loss
  
 
(73
) 
 
 
(54
) 
 
 
(11
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in other comprehensive income
  
 
1,863
  
 
 
245
  
 
 
1,166
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income
  
$
2,366
  
 
$
786
  
 
$
1,667
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-30



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
The following table represents the funded status of the plans as of December 31:
  




















 
  
Funded Plans
 
 
Unfunded Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Change in benefit obligation:
  



 



 



 




 Benefit obligation at beginning of year
  
$
11,453
  
 
$
11,308
  
 
$
2,929
  
 
$
2,905
  

 Service cost
  
 
366
  
 
 
304
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Interest cost
  
 
583
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
146
  
 
 
148
  

 Actuarial adjustments
  
 
1,421
  
 
 
632
  
 
 
173
  
 
 
110
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(351
) 
 
 
(2,014
) 
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
(220
) 

 Translation adjustment
  
 
(331
) 
 
 
591
  
 
 
(78
) 
 
 
(14
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Benefit obligation at end of year
  
 
13,141
  
 
 
11,453
  
 
 
2,939
  
 
 
2,929
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Change in plan assets:
  



 



 



 




 Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year
  
 
10,834
  
 
 
10,165
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Actual return on plan assets
  
 
100
  
 
 
1,071
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Company contributions
  
 
709
  
 
 
1,059
  
 
 
231
  
 
 
220
  

 Benefits paid
  
 
(351
) 
 
 
(2,014
) 
 
 
(231
) 
 
 
(220
) 

 Translation adjustment
  
 
(264
) 
 
 
553
  
 



 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Fair value of plan assets at end of year
  
 
11,028
  
 
 
10,834
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Funded status at end of year
  
$
(2,113
) 
 
$
(619
) 
 
$
(2,939
) 
 
$
(2,929
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the foreign funded plans had liabilities of $2.1 million and
$619,000, respectively. The unfunded plans had liabilities of $2.9 million at both December 31, 2011 and 2010. These amounts are each included in the consolidated balance sheets under the caption “Pension and postretirement benefits.”
 The net actuarial losses for the foreign funded plans as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $4.6 million ($3.4 million
after-tax) and $2.9 million ($2.1 million after-tax), respectively. The net actuarial losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 for the foreign unfunded plans were $269,000 ($199,000 after-tax) and $111,000 ($82,000 after-tax), respectively.
 The fair value of the foreign pension plans’ assets by asset category were as follows: 
 




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2011
 

 Asset Category
  
Total
 
  
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservedInputs(Level 3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 U.S. equity securities
  
$
977
  
  
$
977
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equity securities
  
 
3,995
  
  
 
3,639
  
  
 
356
  
  
 
—  
  

 Canadian fixed income securities
  
 
5,975
  
  
 
5,975
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
81
  
  
 
81
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
11,028
  
  
$
10,672
  
  
$
356
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-31



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements at December 31, 2010
 

 Asset Category
  
Total
 
  
Quoted Pricesin ActiveMarkets(Level 1)
 
  
SignificantOtherObservableInputs(Level 2)
 
  
SignificantUnobservedInputs(Level 3)
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 U.S. equity securities
  
$
1,024
  
  
$
1,024
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 International equity securities
  
 
4,317
  
  
 
3,957
  
  
 
360
  
  
 
—  
  

 Canadian fixed income securities
  
 
5,469
  
  
 
5,469
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
24
  
  
 
24
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
10,834
  
  
$
10,474
  
  
$
360
  
  
$
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The following payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid:
  












 
  
FundedPlans
 
  
UnfundedPlans
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
326
  
  
$
219
  

 2013
  
 
445
  
  
 
218
  

 2014
  
 
475
  
  
 
218
  

 2015
  
 
597
  
  
 
217
  

 2016
  
 
601
  
  
 
216
  

 2017-2021
  
 
3,316
  
  
 
1,066
  
 Information for Pension Plans with an Accumulated Benefit Obligation in Excess of Plan Assets as of
December 31 were as follows:   




















 
  
Domestic Plans
 

 
  
Funded Plans
 
  
Unfunded Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
13,938
  
  
$
12,853
  
  
$
10,883
  
  
$
10,352
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
13,938
  
  
 
12,853
  
  
 
10,589
  
  
 
10,064
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
9,846
  
  
 
8,858
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  





00.000



00.000



00.000



00.000


 
  
Foreign Plans
 

 
  
Funded Plans
 
  
Unfunded Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Projected benefit obligation
  
$
13,141
  
  
$
11,453
  
  
$
2,939
  
  
$
2,929
  

 Accumulated benefit obligation
  
 
12,049
  
  
 
10,608
  
  
 
2,939
  
  
 
2,929
  

 Fair value of plan assets
  
 
11,028
  
  
 
10,834
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 Contributions. In aggregate for both the domestic and foreign plans, the Company anticipates
contributing $1.6 million to the funded pension plans, $952,000 to the unfunded pension plans and $450,000 to the postretirement benefit plans in 2012. 
  F-32



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Weighted-Average Assumptions. Weighted-average assumptions used to determine
benefit obligations as of December 31 were as follows:   




































 
  
Domestic Plans
 
 
 
 

  
  
Funded Plans
 
 
Unfunded Plans
 
 
PostretirementBenefit Plans
 
 
Foreign Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Discount rate
  
 
4.92
% 
 
 
5.45
% 
 
 
4.75
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
4.70
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
4.60
% 
 
 
5.10
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
3.00
% 
 
 
3.00
% 
 Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost were as follows: 
 




































 
  
Domestic Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
  
Funded Plans
 
 
Unfunded Plans
 
 
PostretirementBenefit Plans
 
 
Foreign Plans
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Discount rate
  
 
5.45
% 
 
 
5.90
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
5.70
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
5.60
% 
 
 
5.10
% 
 
 
5.60
% 

 Expected long-term return on plan assets
  
 
6.35
% 
 
 
6.35
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
6.10
% 
 
 
6.10
% 
 
 
5.50
% 
 
 
5.75
% 

 Rate of compensation increase
  
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
4.50
% 
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
N/A
  
 
 
3.00
% 
 
 
3.00
% 
 The assumed health care cost trend rate used in measuring the December 31, 2011 accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation was nine percent, declining one-half percent each year to the ultimate rate of five percent by the year 2019 and remaining at that level thereafter. The assumed health care cost trend rate used in measuring the
December 31, 2010 accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was nine and one-half percent, declining one-half percent each year to the ultimate rate of five percent by the year 2019 and remaining at that level thereafter. 
A one-percentage-point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each year would increase the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011 by approximately $1.7 million and the total of service and interest cost components by approximately $112,000. A one-percentage-point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each year
would decrease the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2011 by approximately $1.5 million and the total of service and interest cost components by approximately $93,000. 
Multi-employer Plans. Viad contributes to defined benefit pension plans under the terms of collective-bargaining agreements that
cover its union-represented employees. The financial risks of participating in these multi-employer pension plans generally include the fact that assets contributed to the plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees of other
participating employers. Furthermore, if a participating employer ceases to contribute to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be borne by the remaining participating employers. In addition, if Viad were to discontinue its
participation in some of its multi-employer pension plans, the Company may be required to pay those plans a withdrawal liability amount based on the underfunded status of the plan. Viad also contributes to defined contribution plans pursuant to its
collective-bargaining agreements, which are generally not subject to the funding risks inherent in defined benefit pension plans. The overall level of Viad’s contributions to its multi-employer plans may significantly vary from year-to-year
based on the demand for union-represented labor to support the Company’s operations. Viad does not have any minimum contribution requirements for future periods pursuant to its collective-bargaining agreements for individually significant
multi-employer plans. Contributions to multi-employer pension plans totaled $19.6 million, $15.3 million and $15.7 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  F-33



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Viad’s participation in multi-employer pension plans for the year ended
December 31, 2011, is outlined in the following table. Unless otherwise noted, the most recent Pension Protection Act zone status available in 2011 and 2010 relates to the plan’s year end as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and is based on information received from the plan. Among other factors, plans in the red zone are generally less than 65 percent funded, plans in the yellow zone are less than 80 percent funded, and plans in the green zone are at
least 80 percent funded. The “FIP/RP Status Pending/Implemented” column indicates plans for which a financial improvement plan or a rehabilitation plan is either pending or has been implemented. 
 








































 Pension Fund
  
EIN
 
  
PlanNo.
 
  
PensionProtection ActZone Status
  
FIP/RPStatusPending/Implemented

  
Viad Contributions
 
  
SurchargePaid
 
  
ExpirationDate ofCollective-BargainingAgreement(s)
 

  
  
  
2011
  
2010
  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 
  
  

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Plan
  
 
91-6145047
  
  
 
001
  
  
Green
  
Green
  
No
  
$
5,720
  
  
$
4,551
  
  
$
4,998
  
  
 
No
  
  
  
3/31/12 to5/31/14
    

 Southern California Local 831 - Employer Pension Fund (1)
  
 
95-6376874
  
  
 
001
  
  
Green
  
Green
  
No
  
 
2,232
  
  
 
1,870
  
  
 
1,710
  
  
 
No
  
  
 
8/31/2014
  

 National Electrical Benefit Fund
  
 
53-0181657
  
  
 
001
  
  
Green
  
Green
  
No
  
 
1,691
  
  
 
1,313
  
  
 
1,260
  
  
 
No
  
  
  
6/16/12 to6/3/14
    

 Chicago Regional Council of Carpenters Pension Fund (2)
  
 
36-6130207
  
  
 
001
  
  
Yellow
  
Yellow
  
Yes
  
 
1,411
  
  
 
1,018
  
  
 
908
  
  
 
No
  
  
  
5/31/13 to5/31/14
    













 Southwest Carpenters Pension Trust
  
 
95-6042875
  
  
 
001
  
  
Green
  
Green
  
No
  
 
1,031
  
  
 
867
  
  
 
714
  
  
 
No
  
  
 
8/31/2014
  

 Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan
  
 
36-6044243
  
  
 
001
  
  
Red
  
Red
  
Yes
  
 
725
  
  
 
717
  
  
 
702
  
  
 
No
  
  
  
7/31/12 to12/31/13
    













 Steelworkers Pension Trust
  
 
23-6645808
  
  
 
499
  
  
Green
  
Green
  
No
  
 
422
  
  
 
425
  
  
 
403
  
  
 
No
  
  
  
2/28/12 to6/30/14
    

 Machinery Movers Riggers & Mach Erectors Local 136 Supplemental Retirement Plan (1) (2)
  
 
36-1416355
  
  
 
001
  
  
Red
  
Red
  
Yes
  
 
386
  
  
 
710
  
  
 
292
  
  
 
No
  
  
 
6/30/2014
  

 New England Teamsters & Trucking Industry Pension
(3)
  
 
04-6372430
  
  
 
001
  
  
Red
  
Red
  
Yes
  
 
339
  
  
 
290
  
  
 
248
  
  
 
No
  
  
 
3/31/2012
  

 All other funds (4)
  



  



  

  

  

  
 
3,752
  
  
 
2,119
  
  
 
3,152
  
  



  





  



  



  

  

  

  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  




 Total contributions to defined benefit plans
  



  



  

  

  

  
 
17,709
  
  
 
13,880
  
  
 
14,387
  
  



  
















 Total contributions to other plans
  



  



  

  

  

  
 
1,892
  
  
 
1,469
  
  
 
1,317
  
  



  





  



  



  

  

  

  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  




 Total contributions to multi-employer plans
  



  



  

  

  

  
$
19,601
  
  
$
15,349
  
  
$
15,704
  
  



  





  



  



  

  

  

  

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  



  



  


(1)
The Company contributed more than 5 percent of total plan contributions for the 2010 and 2009 plan years based on the plans’ Forms 5500. 


(2)
Zone status as of 6/30/10 and 6/30/09. 


(3)
Zone status as of 9/30/10 and 9/30/09. 


(4)
Represents participation in 39 pension funds during 2011.  Other Employee Benefits. Costs of the 401(k) Plan and other benefit plans totaled $1.3 million, $1.6 million and $2.0 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
Note 17. Restructuring Charges 
Marketing & Events Group Consolidation 
Beginning in 2009, Viad commenced certain restructuring actions designed to reduce the Company’s cost structure primarily within the
Marketing & Events U.S. segment, and to a lesser extent in the Marketing & Events International segment. The Company implemented a strategic reorganization plan in order to consolidate the separate business units within the
Marketing & Events U.S. segment. The Company also consolidated facilities and streamlined its operations in the United Kingdom and Germany. As a result, the Company recorded restructuring charges in 2010 and 2009, primarily consisting of
severance and related benefits as a result of workforce reductions; and charges related to the consolidation and downsizing of facilities representing the remaining operating lease obligations (net of estimated sublease income) and related costs.
During 2011, the Company recorded restructuring charges related to leased facility consolidations and optimization of the Marketing & Events U.S. service delivery network. The Company expects additional restructuring charges during 2012
primarily related to facility consolidations. 
  F-34



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Other Restructurings 
The Company has recorded restructuring charges in connection with the consolidation of certain support functions at its corporate
headquarters, and certain reorganization activities within the Travel & Recreation Group. These charges primarily consist of severance and related benefits due to headcount reductions. In addition, the Company had recorded significant
restructuring charges in past years, primarily within the Marketing & Events U.S. segment. These legacy restructuring liabilities represent the remaining contractual lease obligations on certain facilities, and are subject to periodic
adjustments as a result of changes in estimated sublease activity and other factors. These adjustments can result in reversals of previously recorded amounts, or additional charges in some cases. 
The table below represents a reconciliation of beginning and ending liability balances by major restructuring activity: 
 
























 
  
Marketing & Events 
GroupConsolidation
 
 
Other Restructurings
 
 
 
 

 
  
Severance &EmployeeBenefits
 
 
Facilities
 
 
Severance &EmployeeBenefits
 
 
Facilities
 
 
Total
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Balance at January 1, 2009
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
201
  
 
$
6,343
  
 
$
6,544
  

 Restructuring charges (recoveries)
  
 
8,115
  
 
 
7,104
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,165
) 
 
 
14,054
  

 Cash payments
  
 
(5,043
) 
 
 
(525
) 
 
 
(201
) 
 
 
(1,818
) 
 
 
(7,587
) 

 Adjustment to liability
  
 
(739
) 
 
 
(284
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(333
) 
 
 
(1,356
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
2,333
  
 
 
6,295
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,027
  
 
 
11,655
  

 Restructuring charges (recoveries)
  
 
2,637
  
 
 
1,180
  
 
 
542
  
 
 
(137
) 
 
 
4,222
  

 Cash payments
  
 
(3,387
) 
 
 
(2,164
) 
 
 
(292
) 
 
 
(875
) 
 
 
(6,718
) 

 Adjustment to liability
  
 
(466
) 
 
 
(258
) 
 
 
(53
) 
 
 
(373
) 
 
 
(1,150
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
(11
) 
 
 
(2
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(13
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
1,106
  
 
 
5,051
  
 
 
197
  
 
 
1,642
  
 
 
7,996
  

 Restructuring charges
  
 
1,182
  
 
 
2,519
  
 
 
26
  
 
 
55
  
 
 
3,782
  

 Cash payments
  
 
(1,175
) 
 
 
(2,356
) 
 
 
(199
) 
 
 
(158
) 
 
 
(3,888
) 

 Adjustment to liability
  
 
(294
) 
 
 
(397
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(263
) 
 
 
(954
) 

 Foreign currency translation adjustment
  
 
12
  
 
 
2
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
14
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
831
  
 
$
4,819
  
 
$
24
  
 
$
1,276
  
 
$
6,950
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 As of December 31, 2011, the liability of $831,000 and $24,000 related to severance and employee
benefits in the Marketing & Events Group consolidation and other restructurings, respectively, is expected to be paid by the end of 2012. Additionally, as of December 31, 2011, the liability of $4.8 million and $1.3 million related to
facilities in the Marketing & Events Group consolidation and other restructurings, respectively, relates to future lease payment obligations to be made over the remaining lease terms. See Note 20 for information regarding restructuring
charges by segment. 
Note 18. Leases and Other 
Viad has entered into operating leases for the use of certain of its offices, equipment and other facilities. These
leases expire over periods up to 40 years. Leases which expire are generally renewed or replaced by similar leases. Some leases contain scheduled rental increases accounted for on a straight-line basis. 
  F-35



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
As of December 31, 2011, Viad’s future minimum rental payments and related
sublease rentals receivable with respect to non-cancelable operating leases with terms in excess of one year were as follows:   












 
  
RentalPayments
 
  
ReceivableUnder 
Subleases
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 2012
  
$
16,699
  
  
$
1,902
  

 2013
  
 
15,911
  
  
 
1,146
  

 2014
  
 
14,285
  
  
 
845
  

 2015
  
 
7,738
  
  
 
613
  

 2016
  
 
4,871
  
  
 
358
  

 Thereafter
  
 
12,793
  
  
 
1,247
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
72,297
  
  
$
6,111
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Net rent expense under operating leases consisted of the following: 
 
















  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Minimum rentals
  
$
30,860
  
 
$
29,072
  
 
$
31,082
  

 Sublease rentals
  
 
(6,497
) 
 
 
(5,704
) 
 
 
(6,193
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total rentals, net
  
$
24,363
  
 
$
23,368
  
 
$
24,889
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The aggregate annual maturities and the related amounts representing interest on capital lease
obligations are included in Note 10.  In addition, as of December 31, 2011, the Company had aggregate purchase
obligations of $24.0 million related to various licensing agreements, consulting and other contracted services. 
Note 19. Litigation, Claims, Contingencies and Other 
Viad and certain of its subsidiaries are plaintiffs or defendants to various actions, proceedings and pending claims,
some of which involve, or may involve, compensatory, punitive or other damages. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and it is possible that some of the legal actions, proceedings or claims could be decided against Viad. Although the amount
of liability as of December 31, 2011 with respect to these matters is not ascertainable, Viad believes that any resulting liability, after taking into consideration amounts already provided for and insurance coverage, will not have a material
effect on Viad’s business, financial position or results of operations.  Viad is subject to various U.S. federal, state
and foreign laws and regulations governing the prevention of pollution and the protection of the environment in the jurisdictions in which Viad has or had operations. If the Company has failed to comply with these environmental laws and regulations,
civil and criminal penalties could be imposed and Viad could become subject to regulatory enforcement actions in the form of injunctions and cease and desist orders. As is the case with many companies, Viad also faces exposure to actual or potential
claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters relating to its past operations. Although it is a party to certain environmental disputes, Viad believes that any resulting liabilities, after taking into consideration amounts already provided for
and insurance coverage, will not have a material effect on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, Viad had recorded environmental remediation liabilities of $5.8 million and $6.1
million, respectively, related to previously sold operations.  As of December 31, 2011, Viad had certain obligations
under guarantees to third parties on behalf of its subsidiaries. These guarantees are not subject to liability recognition in the consolidated financial statements and relate to leased facilities entered into by Viad’s subsidiary operations.
The Company would generally be required to make payments to the respective third parties under these guarantees in the event that the related subsidiary could not meet its own payment obligations. The maximum potential amount of future payments that
Viad would be required to make under all guarantees existing as of December 31, 2011 would be $28.5 million. These guarantees relate to leased facilities expiring through October 2017. There are no recourse provisions that would enable Viad to
recover from third parties any payments made under the guarantees. Furthermore, there are no collateral or similar arrangements whereby Viad could recover payments. 
  F-36



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
A significant portion of Viad’s employees are unionized and the Company is a party
to approximately 100 collective-bargaining agreements, with approximately one-third requiring renegotiation each year. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 34 percent of Viad’s regular full-time employees are covered by
collective-bargaining agreements. If the Company were unable to reach an agreement with a union during the collective-bargaining process, the union may call for a strike or work stoppage, which may, under certain circumstances, adversely impact the
Company’s businesses and results of operations. Viad believes that relations with its employees are satisfactory and that collective-bargaining agreements expiring in 2012 will be renegotiated in the ordinary course of business without having a
material adverse effect on Viad’s operations.  Viad’s businesses contribute to various multi-employer pension plans
based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering its union-represented employees. Viad’s contributions to these plans in 2011, 2010 and 2009 totaled $19.6 million, $15.3 million and $15.7 million, respectively. Based
upon the information available to Viad from plan administrators, management believes that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires pension plans underfunded at certain levels to reduce, over
defined time periods, the underfunded status. In addition, under current laws, the termination of a plan, or a voluntary withdrawal from a plan by Viad, or a shrinking contribution base to a plan as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other
contributing employers to such plan, would require Viad to make payments to such plan for its proportionate share of the plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of additional funding, if any, that Viad would
be required to make related to multi-employer pension plans is not ascertainable.  Glacier Park operates the concession
portion of its business under a concession contract with the U.S. National Park Service (the “Park Service”) for Glacier National Park. Glacier Park’s original 25-year concession contract with the Park Service that was to expire on
December 31, 2005, has been extended for seven one-year periods and now expires on December 31, 2012. The Park Service, in its sole discretion, may continue extending Glacier Park’s concession contract in one-year increments beyond
2012. When this contract ultimately expires, Glacier Park will have the opportunity to bid on a new concession contract. If Glacier Park does secure a new contract, possible terms would be for 10, 15 or 20 years. Glacier Park generated approximately
45 percent of its 2011 revenue through its concession contract for services provided within Glacier National Park. If a new concessionaire is selected by the Park Service, Glacier Park’s remaining business would consist of its operations at
Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta, Canada; East Glacier, Montana; Whitefish, Montana and St. Mary, Montana. In such a circumstance, Glacier Park would be entitled to an amount equal to its “possessory interest,” which generally means
the value of the structures acquired or constructed, fixtures installed and improvements made to the concession property at Glacier National Park during the term of the concession contract. Glacier Park owns Glacier Park Lodge in East Glacier,
Montana; Grouse Mountain Lodge in Whitefish, Montana and St. Mary Lodge & Resort in St. Mary, Montana. Glacier Park also owns the Prince of Wales Hotel in Waterton Lakes National Park, which is operated under a 42-year ground lease with the
Canadian government running through January 31, 2052. Glacier Park generated 19 percent of the Travel & Recreation Group’s 2011 segment operating income. 
  F-37



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 20. Segment Information 
Viad measures profit and performance of its operations on the basis of segment operating income which excludes
restructuring charges and recoveries and impairment charges and recoveries. Intersegment sales are eliminated in consolidation and intersegment transfers are not significant. Corporate activities include expenses not allocated to operations.
Depreciation and amortization, and share-based compensation expense are the only significant non-cash items for the reportable segments. Disclosures regarding Viad’s reportable segments with reconciliations to consolidated totals are as
follows:   
















  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 
  
 
 
 
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 

 Revenues:
  



 



 




 Marketing & Events Group:
  



 



 




 U.S.
  
$
631,360
  
 
$
570,978
  
 
$
568,432
  

 International
  
 
218,639
  
 
 
197,787
  
 
 
172,648
  

 Intersegment eliminations
  
 
(9,449
) 
 
 
(12,281
) 
 
 
(10,578
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
840,550
  
 
 
756,484
  
 
 
730,502
  

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
101,814
  
 
 
88,277
  
 
 
75,302
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
942,364
  
 
$
844,761
  
 
$
805,804
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Segment operating income (loss):
  



 



 




 Marketing & Events Group:
  



 



 




 U.S.
  
$
(6,269
) 
 
$
(15,217
) 
 
$
(22,095
) 

 International
  
 
11,449
  
 
 
10,088
  
 
 
9,226
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
5,180
  
 
 
(5,129
) 
 
 
(12,869
) 

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
20,196
  
 
 
19,885
  
 
 
17,057
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
25,376
  
 
 
14,756
  
 
 
4,188
  

 Corporate activities
  
 
(7,682
) 
 
 
(6,422
) 
 
 
(5,607
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
17,694
  
 
 
8,334
  
 
 
(1,419
) 

 Interest income
  
 
779
  
 
 
584
  
 
 
579
  

 Interest expense
  
 
(1,511
) 
 
 
(1,835
) 
 
 
(1,690
) 

 Restructuring charges:
  



 



 




 Marketing & Events U.S.
  
 
(3,756
) 
 
 
(3,232
) 
 
 
(11,980
) 

 Marketing & Events International
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(448
) 
 
 
(1,300
) 

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(235
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Corporate
  
 
(26
) 
 
 
(307
) 
 
 
(774
) 

 Impairment losses:
  



 



 




 Marketing & Events U.S.
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(90,691
) 

 Marketing & Events International
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(23,318
) 

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(302
) 
 
 
(2,854
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes
  
$
13,180
  
 
$
2,559
  
 
$
(133,447
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  F-38



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
















  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Assets:
  



  



  




 Marketing & Events Group:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
213,843
  
  
$
235,965
  
  
$
245,104
  

 International
  
 
96,996
  
  
 
83,441
  
  
 
78,601
  

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
194,278
  
  
 
157,562
  
  
 
147,090
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
112,711
  
  
 
139,535
  
  
 
138,391
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
617,828
  
  
$
616,503
  
  
$
609,186
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Depreciation and amortization:
  



  



  




 Marketing & Events Group:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
17,247
  
  
$
17,887
  
  
$
18,446
  

 International
  
 
5,027
  
  
 
4,486
  
  
 
4,103
  

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
6,674
  
  
 
5,648
  
  
 
5,464
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
178
  
  
 
231
  
  
 
256
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
29,126
  
  
$
28,252
  
  
$
28,269
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Capital expenditures:
  



  



  




 Marketing & Events Group:
  



  



  




 U.S.
  
$
11,692
  
  
$
9,050
  
  
$
14,169
  

 International
  
 
5,635
  
  
 
4,776
  
  
 
4,842
  

 Travel & Recreation Group
  
 
3,271
  
  
 
3,214
  
  
 
2,304
  

 Corporate and other
  
 
940
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
21,538
  
  
$
17,040
  
  
$
21,315
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Products and Services. Viad’s revenues for each group of products and services are presented
in the following table:   
















  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Revenues:
  



  



  




 Convention and event services
  
$
670,054
  
  
$
590,444
  
  
$
582,969
  

 Exhibits and environments
  
 
170,496
  
  
 
166,040
  
  
 
147,533
  

 Travel and recreation services
  
 
101,814
  
  
 
88,277
  
  
 
75,302
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
$
942,364
  
  
$
844,761
  
  
$
805,804
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  F-39



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Geographic Areas. Viad’s foreign operations are located principally in
Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany and the United Arab Emirates. Marketing & Events Group revenues are designated as domestic or foreign based on the originating location of the product or service. Long-lived assets are attributed to
domestic or foreign based principally on the physical location of the assets. Long-lived assets consist of “Property and equipment, net” and “Other investments and assets.” The table below presents the financial information by
major geographic area:   





00000000



00000000



00000000


  
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 

 Revenues:
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
660,998
  
  
$
590,163
  
  
$
589,344
  

 Canada
  
 
140,374
  
  
 
136,066
  
  
 
106,093
  

 United Kingdom
  
 
124,208
  
  
 
93,092
  
  
 
90,429
  

 Other international
  
 
16,784
  
  
 
25,440
  
  
 
19,938
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total revenues
  
$
942,364
  
  
$
844,761
  
  
$
805,804
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Long-lived assets:
  



  



  




 United States
  
$
145,217
  
  
$
117,751
  
  
$
122,149
  

 Canada
  
 
47,624
  
  
 
51,182
  
  
 
50,757
  

 United Kingdom
  
 
8,165
  
  
 
8,295
  
  
 
8,602
  

 Other international
  
 
3,858
  
  
 
3,481
  
  
 
2,561
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total long-lived assets
  
$
204,864
  
  
$
180,709
  
  
$
184,069
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

Note 21. Common Stock Repurchases 
Viad has announced its intent to repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock from time to time at prevailing
market prices. During 2011 and 2010, Viad repurchased 250,760 shares for $4.6 million and 356,300 shares for $6.3 million, respectively, and did not repurchase any shares in 2009. As of December 31, 2011, 53,621 shares remain available for
repurchase from the announced authorization. Additionally, during 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company repurchased 28,627 shares for $679,000, 28,407 shares for $573,000 and 72,294 shares for $1.2 million, respectively, related to tax withholding
requirements on share-based awards. 
Note 22. Discontinued Operations 
In 2011, 2010 and 2009, Viad recorded income from discontinued operations of $451,000, $262,000 and $679,000,
respectively, related to the reversal of certain liabilities associated with previously sold operations. 
  F-40



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 
Note 23. Condensed Consolidated Quarterly Results (Unaudited) 
The following quarterly financial information was derived from the Company’s interim financial statements and was
prepared in a manner consistent with the annual financial statements and includes all adjustments (consisting of normal recurring accruals) considered necessary for a fair presentation. 
 




















 
  
First
 
 
Second
 
 
Third
 
 
Fourth
 

 
  
Quarter
 
 
Quarter
 
 
Quarter
 
 
Quarter
 

2011
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Revenues:
  
$
290,098
  
 
$
238,692
  
 
$
216,169
  
 
$
197,405
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss):
  



 



 



 




 Ongoing operations (1)
  
$
17,259
  
 
$
9,862
  
 
$
5,412
  
 
$
(7,157
) 

 Corporate activities
  
 
(1,271
) 
 
 
(1,576
) 
 
 
(2,356
) 
 
 
(2,479
) 

 Restructuring charges (2)
  
 
(269
) 
 
 
(1,206
) 
 
 
(75
) 
 
 
(2,232
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
$
15,719
  
 
$
7,080
  
 
$
2,981
  
 
$
(11,868
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
9,787
  
 
$
4,485
  
 
$
1,245
  
 
$
(6,758
) 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
9,787
  
 
$
4,485
  
 
$
1,245
  
 
$
(6,307
) 

 Diluted income (loss) per common share (4) :
  



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
0.48
  
 
$
0.22
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(0.35
) 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
0.48
  
 
$
0.22
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(0.32
) 

 Basic income (loss) per common share (4) :
  



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
0.48
  
 
$
0.22
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(0.35
) 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
0.48
  
 
$
0.22
  
 
$
0.06
  
 
$
(0.32
) 

  F-41



Table of Contents
VIAD CORP 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued) 
 




















 
  
First
 
 
Second
 
 
Third
 
 
Fourth
 

 
  
Quarter
 
 
Quarter
 
 
Quarter
 
 
Quarter
 

2010
  
(in thousands, except per share data)
 

 Revenues:
  
$
224,353
  
 
$
218,299
  
 
$
215,144
  
 
$
186,965
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss):
  



 



 



 




 Ongoing operations (1)
  
$
199
  
 
$
7,725
  
 
$
9,919
  
 
$
(3,087
) 

 Corporate activities
  
 
(644
) 
 
 
(2,058
) 
 
 
(1,749
) 
 
 
(1,971
) 

 Restructuring charges (2)
  
 
(2,053
) 
 
 
(559
) 
 
 
(183
) 
 
 
(1,427
) 

 Impairment losses (3)
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(302
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating income (loss)
  
$
(2,498
) 
 
$
5,108
  
 
$
7,987
  
 
$
(6,787
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
(2,982
) 
 
$
3,028
  
 
$
4,796
  
 
$
(4,661
) 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
(2,982
) 
 
$
3,028
  
 
$
4,796
  
 
$
(4,399
) 

 Diluted income (loss) per common share (4) :
  



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
0.15
  
 
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.24
) 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
0.15
  
 
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.22
) 

 Basic income (loss) per common share (4) :
  



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to Viad
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
0.15
  
 
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.24
) 

 Net income (loss) attributable to Viad
  
$
(0.15
) 
 
$
0.15
  
 
$
0.23
  
 
$
(0.22
) 
  


(1)
Represents revenues less costs of services and products sold. 


(2)
Includes restructuring charges of $3.8 million in 2011 and gross restructuring charges of $5.0 million and $814,000 of reversed restructuring reserves in 2010.



(3)
Viad recorded an impairment charge of $302,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010 related to other intangible assets and property and equipment at Brewster.



(4)
The sum of quarterly income per share amounts may not equal annual income per share due to rounding. 
Note 24. Subsequent Event 
On March 7, 2012, Viad acquired the Banff International Hotel and related assets for $23.5 million in cash,
subject to certain adjustments. The Banff International Hotel is a 162-guest room commercial hotel located in Banff, Alberta, Canada. 
  F-42



Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 Board of Directors and Stockholders  Viad Corp  Phoenix, Arizona 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Viad Corp and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, cash flows and stockholders’ equity for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated March 9, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting.   






/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP         

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Phoenix, Arizona

March 9, 2012

  F-43



Table of Contents
 
SCHEDULE
VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
VIAD CORP  SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS   




























  
  
 
 
  
Additions
 
  
Deductions
 
  
 
 

 Description
  
Balance atBeginningof Year
 
  
Charged toExpense
 
  
Charged toOtherAccounts
 
  
Write Offs
 
 
Creditedto OtherAccounts
 
  
Balance atEnd of Year
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
(in thousands)
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  



  



  



  



 



  




 December 31, 2009
  
$
2,556
  
  
$
2,940
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
(1,604
) 
 
$
—  
  
  
$
3,892
  

 December 31, 2010
  
 
3,892
  
  
 
615
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(3,335
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,172
  

 December 31, 2011
  
 
1,172
  
  
 
1,696
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(1,796
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
1,072
  









 Deferred tax valuation allowance:
  



  



  



  



 



  




 December 31, 2009
  
$
162
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
162
  

 December 31, 2010
  
 
162
  
  
 
411
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(162
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
411
  

 December 31, 2011
  
 
411
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
(55
) 
 
 
—  
  
  
 
356
  

  F-44



Table of Contents
EXHIBIT INDEX 
 






 Exhibits. #
  
 




  3.A
  
Copy of Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Viad Corp, as amended through July 1, 2004, filed as Exhibit 3.A to Viad Corp’s Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30,
2004, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 04961107).




  3.B
  
Copy of Bylaws of Viad Corp, as amended through February 23, 2011, filed as Exhibit 3 to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed March 1, 2011, is hereby incorporated by
reference.




  4.A
  
Copy of $130,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 18, 2011 and Affirmation and Amendment of Collateral Documents dated as of May 18, 2011, filed as
Exhibit 4 to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed May 24, 2011, is hereby incorporated by reference.




  4.B
  
Copy of Pledge and Security Agreement, Guaranty, and Subsidiary Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004, filed as Exhibit 4.A to Viad Corp’s Form 10-Q for
the period ended June 30, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 04961107).




  4.C1
  
Copy of Rights Agreement dated February 28, 2002, between Viad Corp and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A., which includes the form of Right Certificate as Exhibit A and the
Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares as Exhibit B, incorporated by reference into specified registration statement on Form 8-A filed February 28, 2002 (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 02562458).




  4.C2
  
Copy of Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares dated July 9, 2004, with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Rights Agent, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to Viad Corp’s Form
8-A/A filed July 9, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 04907934).




  4.C3
  
Copy of Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2012, between Viad Corp and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., which includes the form of Right Certificate as
Exhibit A (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Viad Corp’s Form 8-A/A (Amendment No. 3) filed on February 29, 2012), filed as Exhibit 4.1 to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K/A (Amendment No. 1) filed February 29, 2012, is hereby incorporated
by reference.




  10.A1
  
Copy of 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Annex B to Viad Corp’s Proxy Statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, filed April 4, 2007, is hereby
incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 07747896).+




  10.A2
  
Copy of form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Agreement, effective as of February 25, 2008, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.B to
Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A3
  
Copy of form of Restricted Stock Agreement - Executives, effective as of February 25, 2008, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.C to Viad
Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A4
  
Copy of form of Restricted Stock Agreement for Outside Directors, effective as of February 25, 2008, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.F
to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A5
  
Copy of form of Restricted Stock Agreement - Executives (five-year cliff), effective as of March 23, 2011, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit
10.A to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed March 29, 2011, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A6
  
Copy of form of Restricted Stock Agreement – Executives (three-year cliff vesting), effective as of March 23, 2011, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan,
filed as Exhibit 10.B to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed March 29, 2011, is hereby incorporated by reference. +




  10.A7
  
Copy of form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement, effective as of March 23, 2011, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.C to Viad Corp’s
Form 8-K filed March 29, 2011, is hereby incorporated by reference. +




  10.A8
  
Copy of form of Performance Unit Agreement, effective as of March 23, 2011, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.D to Viad Corp’s Form
8-K filed March 29, 2011, is hereby incorporated by reference. +




  10.A9
  
Copy of Viad Corp Management Incentive Plan, amended as of February 26, 2008, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad Corp’s
Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.+  


Table of Contents






  10.A10
  
Copy of form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, effective as of February 25, 2008, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.D to Viad
Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 28, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A11
  
Copy of form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, effective as of February 25, 2010, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.B to Viad
Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 26, 2010, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A12
  
Copy of form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, effective as of February 25, 2010, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad
Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 26, 2010, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A13
  
Copy of form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement, effective as of February 24, 2009, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad
Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 26, 2009, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.A14
  
Copy of form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units Agreement, effective as of February 24, 2009, pursuant to the 2007 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit
10.B to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 26, 2009, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.B1
  
Copy of 1997 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, as amended through February 23, 2006, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad Corp’s 8-K filed February 28, 2006, is hereby incorporated
by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 06650477).+




  10.B2
  
Copy of form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement, as amended through February 19, 2004, pursuant to the 1997 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.C1 to Viad
Corp’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 041123501).+




  10.B3
  
Copy of form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement, as amended through August 13, 2004, pursuant to the 1997 Viad Corp Omnibus Incentive Plan, filed as Exhibit 10.C2 to Viad
Corp’s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 041123501).+




  10.C
  
Copy of Viad Corp Deferred Compensation Plan (Executive) Amended and Restated as of August 13, 2004, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad Corp’s Form 10-Q for the period ended
September 30, 2004, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 041123501).+




  10.C1
  
Copy of forms of Viad Corp Executive Severance Plans (Tier I and II), amended and restated for Code Section 409A as of January 1, 2005, filed as Exhibit 10.B to Viad Corp’s
Form 8-K filed August 29, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 071088413).+




  10.C2
  
Copy of Executive Officer Pay Continuation Policy adopted February 7, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed February 13, 2007, is hereby incorporated by
reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 07609762).+




  10.D
  
Copy of Employment Agreement between Viad Corp and Paul B. Dykstra dated as of May 15, 2007, filed as Exhibit 10.B to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed May 21, 2007, is hereby
incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 07867527).+




  10.E
  
Copy of Viad Corp Supplemental TRIM Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 for Code Section 409A, filed as Exhibit 10.E to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed August
29, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 071088413).+




  10.F
  
Copy of Viad Corp Supplemental Pension Plan, amended and restated as of January 1, 2005 for Code Section 409A, filed as Exhibit 10.A to Viad Corp’s Form 8-K filed August 29,
2007, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC Film No. 071088413).+




  10.G1
  
Summary of Compensation Program of Non-Employee Directors of Viad Corp as of January 1, 2012.+ *




  10.G2
  
Description of Viad Corp Director’s Matching Gift Program, filed as Exhibit 10.Q to Viad Corp’s 1999 Form 10-K, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No.
001-11015; SEC Film No. 572329).+




  10.H
  
Copy of form of Indemnification Agreement between Viad Corp and Directors of Viad Corp, as approved by Viad Corp stockholders on October 16, 1987, as updated to reflect revised
company name and gender-neutral references only, and filed as Exhibit 10.I to Viad Corp’s Form 10-K filed February 27, 2009, is hereby incorporated by reference.+




  10.I
  
Copy of Retirement Plan for Management Employees of Brewster Inc., as amended and restated effective January 1, 2010, and filed as Exhibit 10.J to Viad Corp’s Form 10-K
filed March 8, 2010, is hereby incorporated by reference.+


Table of Contents









  14
  
Copy of Code of Ethics of Viad Corp adopted May 13, 2003, filed as Exhibit 14 to Viad Corp’s 2003 Form 10-K, is hereby incorporated by reference (SEC File No. 001-11015; SEC
Film No. 04663620).




  21
  
List of Subsidiaries of Viad Corp.*




  23
  
Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the incorporation by reference into specified registration statements on Form S-3 or on Form S-8 of their report
contained in this Annual Report.*




  24
  
Power of Attorney signed by Directors of Viad Corp.*




  31.1
  
Exhibit of Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Viad Corp pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.#*




  31.2
  
Exhibit of Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Viad Corp pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.#*




  32.1
  
Additional Exhibit of Certification of Chief Executive Officer of Viad Corp pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.#*




  32.2
  
Additional Exhibit of Certification of Chief Financial Officer of Viad Corp pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.#*




  101
  
The following financial information from Viad Corp’s Annual Report on Form 10–K for the year ended December 31, 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (v) Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity and
(vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. **
  


*
Filed herewith. 


**
Furnished herewith. In accordance with Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, the Interactive Data Files in Exhibit 101 are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 11 or 12
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under these sections.


+
Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement.


#
A signed original of this written statement has been provided to Viad Corp and will be retained by Viad Corp and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission
upon request.  Documents incorporated by reference can be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference
section, located in Room 1580, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549, and on the SEC’s Internet site at www.sec.gov. 



