
10-K
1
d268713d10k.htm
FORM 10-K


Form 10-K


Table of Contents
 
  UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  Washington, D.C. 20549   
  FORM 10-K
    
Mark One 


x
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011  OR   


¨
TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
For the transition period from              to
            .  Commission File No. 001-33093 
LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   






Delaware
 
77-0160744

(State or other jurisdiction ofincorporation or organization)
 
(IRS EmployerIdentification No.)




11085 North Torrey Pines Rd., Suite 100La Jolla, CA
 
92037

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (858) 550-7500 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
 






 Title of Each Class
  
 Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

 Common Stock, par value $.001 per share
  
The NASDAQ Global Market of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

 Preferred Share Purchase Rights
  
The NASDAQ Global Market of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
None 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.    Yes  ¨    No  x 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes  x    No  ¨ 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.  x  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check one): 










Large Accelerated Filer  ¨
  
Accelerated Filer  x
  
Non-accelerated Filer  ¨
  
Smaller reporting company  ¨


  
(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)
  

 Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act).    Yes  ¨    No  x 
The aggregate market value of the Registrant’s voting and non-voting stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $206.6 million
based on the last sales price of the Registrant’s Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Market of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC on June 30, 2011. For purposes of this calculation, shares of Common Stock held by directors, officers and 10%
stockholders known to the Registrant have been deemed to be owned by affiliates which should not be construed to indicate that any such person possesses the power, direct or indirect, to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of
the Registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the Registrant.  As of February 1, 2012,
the Registrant had 19,683,235 shares of Common Stock outstanding.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Registrant’s 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the Commission on or before
April 30, 2012 are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. With the exception of those portions that are specifically incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, such Proxy
Statement shall not be deemed filed as part of this Report or incorporated by reference herein.   
   


Table of Contents
Table of Contents 
 










 Part I
  




 Item 1.
 
 Business
  
 
1
  

 Item 1A.
 
 Risk Factors
  
 
13
  

 Item 1B.
 
 Unresolved Staff Comments
  
 
26
  

 Item 2.
 
 Properties
  
 
26
  

 Item 3.
 
 Legal Proceedings
  
 
26
  

 Item 4.
 
 Mine Safety Disclosures
  
 
26
  




 Part II
  




 Item 5.
 
 Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

  
 
27
  

 Item 6.
 
 Selected Consolidated Financial Data
  
 
29
  

 Item 7.
 
 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
  
 
31
  

 Item 7A.
 
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
  
 
46
  

 Item 8.
 
 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
 
47
  

 Item 9.
 
 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
  
 
84
  

 Item 9A.
 
 Controls and Procedures
  
 
84
  

 Item 9B.
 
 Other Information
  







 Part III
  




 Item 10.
 
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
  
 
88
  

 Item 11.
 
 Executive Compensation
  
 
88
  

 Item 12.
 
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters
  
 
88
  

 Item 13.
 
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
  
 
88
  

 Item 14.
 
 Principal Accountant Fees and Services
  
 
88
  




 Part IV
  




 Item 15.
 
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
  
 
89
  

 SIGNATURES 
  
 
102
  
 AVAILABLE INFORMATION:  We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (or SEC) our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and, as necessary, amendments to
these reports, pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may read or copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that site is <http://www.sec.gov>.  You may obtain
a free copy of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports which are posted as soon as reasonably practicable after filing on our website at
<http://www.ligand.com>, by contacting the Investor Relations Department at our corporate offices by calling (858) 550-7500 or by sending an e-mail message to investors@ligand.com. You may also request information via the Investor
Relations page of our website. 


Table of Contents
PART I 
 


Item 1.
Business 
Caution: This discussion and analysis may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a
number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” This outlook represents our current judgment on the future direction of our business. These statements include those related to our royalty
revenues, collaborative revenues and milestones, and product development. Actual events or results may differ materially from our expectations. For example, there can be no assurance that our revenues or expenses will meet any expectations or follow
any trend(s), that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be able to enter into any strategic partnerships or other transactions. We cannot assure you that we will receive expected royalties or other revenues to support our
ongoing business or that our internal or partnered pipeline products will progress in their development, gain marketing approval or achieve success in the market. In addition, future arbitration, litigation or disputes with
third parties may have a material adverse effect on us. Such risks and uncertainties, and others, could cause actual results to differ materially from any future performance suggested. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the results of
any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this annual report. This caution is made under the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.  References to “Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated”, “Ligand”, the “Company”,
“we” or “our” include our wholly owned subsidiaries - Ligand JVR, Allergan Ligand Retinoid Therapeutics, Seragen, Inc., or Seragen; Pharmacopeia, LLC; Neurogen Corporation, CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Metabasis Therapeutics, and
Nexus Equity VI LLC, or Nexus.  We were incorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our principal executive offices are located at 11085
North Torrey Pines Road, Suite 100, La Jolla, California, 92037. Our telephone number is (858) 550-7500.  Overview 
We are a biotechnology company that operates with a business model focused on developing or acquiring revenue
generating assets and coupling them to a lean corporate cost structure. Our goal is to create a sustainably profitable business and generate meaningful value for our stockholders. Since a portion of our business model is based on the goal of
partnering with other pharmaceutical companies to commercialize and market our assets, a significant amount of our revenue is based largely on payments made to us by partners for royalties, milestones and license fees. We recognized the important
role of the drug reformulation segment in the pharmaceutical industry and in 2011 added CAPTISOL® to our
technology portfolio. CAPTISOL is a powerful formulation technology that has enabled five FDA approved products, including Pfizer’s VFEND® IV and Baxter International’s
Nexterone® and is currently being used in a number of clinical-stage partner programs. In comparison to our
peers, we believe we have assembled one of the largest and most diversified asset portfolios in the industry with the potential to generate significant revenue in the future. The therapies in our portfolio in development address the unmet medical
needs of patients for a broad spectrum of diseases including hepatitis, muscle wasting, Alzheimer’s disease, dyslipidemia, diabetes, anemia, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis. We have established multiple alliances with the
world’s leading pharmaceutical companies including GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Pfizer, Baxter International, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Lundbeck Inc., Eli Lilly and Co., and The Medicines Company. 
Business Strategy  Our
business model is designed to create value for stockholders by assembling a diversified portfolio of biotech and pharmaceutical revenue streams and operating that business with an efficient and low cost structure. Our goal is to become a sustainably
profitable company that offers investors an opportunity to invest in the ever more complicated and unpredictable pharmaceutical industry. Our business model is based on the concept of 
  1 


Table of Contents

doing what we do best; drug discovery, reformulation and partnering with other pharmaceutical companies to leverage what they do best (late stage development, regulatory management and
commercialization) to ultimately generate our revenue. Our revenue consists mostly of license fees, milestones, and royalties from the partners that license our drugs and technologies, and CAPTISOL material sales. In addition to discovering our own
proprietary drugs, we use an aggressive acquisition strategy to bring in new assets, pipelines, and technologies to aid in generating additional potential new revenue streams. The principal elements of our strategy are set forth below. 
We are assembling a large portfolio of fully funded programs through acquisition and licensing to drive future
profitability. We have assembled a portfolio of over 50 fully-funded partner programs that are in all stages of development, from awaiting commercialization to preclinical research. These assets represent the next wave of potential marketed
drugs that could generate revenue for us. We assemble this portfolio by either licensing out our own proprietary drug development programs or acquiring in partnered programs from other companies. For our internal programs, we generally plan to
advance drug candidates through early-stage drug development and/or clinical proof of concept. We believe partnerships are not only a source of research funding, license fees, future milestone payments and royalties, but they also deliver our assets
into the hands of companies that have the expertise to obtain regulatory approval and successfully launch and commercialize these assets. We believe that focusing on discovery and early-stage drug development while benefiting from our partners’
proven development and commercialization expertise will reduce our internal expenses and allow us to have a larger number of drug candidates progress to later stages of drug development. We have multiple sources of potential license and royalty
revenue from existing corporate agreements, and we may enter additional partnerships that will provide additional revenue opportunities. We have numerous collaborations that have the potential to generate future royalties for us. We believe the
revenue generated from these and future potential collaborations will fund our business and potentially provide profits to our shareholders.  We are selling CAPTISOL material to various customers. We are the sole provider of a proprietary formulation reagent known as CAPTISOL. CAPTISOL is a well validated chemically-modified
cyclodextrin molecule that improves the solubility, stability, and pharmicokinetics of many drugs. We receive revenue from the selling of CAPTISOL to our partners that have either licensed our proprietary CAPTISOL-enabled drugs or have taken a
license to use CAPTISOL with their own internal programs.  We discover and develop compounds that are promising drug
candidates. We discover, synthesize and test numerous compounds to identify those that are most promising for clinical development. We perform extensive target profiling and base our selection of promising development candidates on product
characteristics such as initial indications of safety and efficacy. We believe that this focused strategy allows us to eliminate unpromising candidates from consideration sooner without incurring substantial clinical costs. Our goal is to partner
our programs early in the development and regulatory life-cycle.  Our Asset Portfolio 
We have a portfolio of over 60 current and future potential revenue generating programs, over 50 of which are fully funded by our
partners. We expect to receive royalties from eight marketed products in 2012 and have multiple programs at Phase IIb through NDA submission which represent our future upcoming potential revenue generating programs. While many of these programs have
been disclosed publicly, a significant number of our partners and their programs remain undisclosed to protect competitive and proprietary information about these programs.  PROMACTA (GSK)  GSK’s PROMACTA® (Eltrombopag) is the first oral thrombopoietin (TPO) receptor agonist therapy for the treatment of adult patients
with chronic ITP. In November 2008, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, granted accelerated approval of PROMACTA for the treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with 
  2 


Table of Contents

chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenic purpura, or ITP, who have had an insufficient response to corticosteroids, immunoglobulins or splenectomy. In February 2011, the FDA granted GSK full
approval status for PROMACTA in the US following the submission of long term safety data from post-marketing clinical studies, as well as the completion of other commitments that verify the clinical benefit to patients. Additionally, it was reported
in November 2011 that the Risk Evaluation and Mitgation Strategies (REMS) program that PROMACTA had been operating under in the US was being significantly reduced in scope by the FDA due to data that had been submitted by GSK demonstrating the long
term safety of PROMACTA.  In March 2010, GSK received approval for REVOLADE® (eltrombopag/PROMACTA) from the European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use
(CHMP) and in November 2010 from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for the oral treatment of thrombocytopenia (reduced platelet count) in adults with the blood disorder chronic ITP. Eltrombopag is also authorized for use in all 27
member states of the European Union, as well as India, Australia, Ireland, Japan, Taiwan, Turkey, Singapore, Kuwait, Chile, Russia and Bahrain under the trade name REVOLADE. In the EU and Japan, Eltrombopag is indicated for adult chronic ITP
splenectomized patients who have not responded (are refractory) to other treatments, such as corticosteroids and immunoglobulins. Eltrombopag may also be considered as second-line treatment for adult non-splenectomized patients where surgery is
contraindicated.  As a result of the regulatory approvals of PROMACTA, pursuant to the terms of a license agreement with GSK,
we are entitled to receive tiered royalties on annual net sales of PROMACTA. GSK has listed a patent in the FDA’s Orange Book for PROMACTA with an expiration date in 2024. 
 






 PROMACTA Royalty*

 Rate
  
 Tier

 4.7%
6.6% 7.5% 9.4%
9.3%
  
 Less than $100M annual sales
On portion of sales in range of $100M - $200M On
portion of sales in range of $200M - $400M On portion of sales greater than $400M On portion of sales greater than $1.5B
  


*
Net royalties due Ligand after payment to Rockefeller  AVINZA (Pfizer)  We currently receive royalty
revenues from Pfizer, Inc. for sales from the pain therapeutic AVINZA®. In February 2007, we completed the sale
of our AVINZA product line to King. As a result of the sale, we receive royalties on the net sales of AVINZA through 2017. Royalties are paid at a rate of 5% on sales up to $200 million and a higher rate above $200 million. In October 2010, Pfizer
announced the acquisition of King Pharmaceuticals.  Viviant/Conbriza (Pfizer) 
In October 2010, we announced that our partner Pfizer, Inc. launched VIVIANT® (bazedoxifene) in Japan for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. The drug is also marketed in Spain under
the brand name CONBRIZA® through a co-promotion with Almirall, an international pharmaceutical company based in
Spain. Pfizer received manufacturing and marketing approval for the product in Japan in July 2010. VIVIANT was approved in April 2009 by the European Commission (under the trade name CONBRIZA) for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis in
women at increased risk of fracture. VIVIANT, a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM), is a result of the successful research collaboration between Wyeth (now a subsidiary of Pfizer) and us that began in 1994. Pfizer is responsible for the
registration and worldwide marketing of bazedoxifene, a synthetic drug specifically designed to reduce the risk of osteoporotic fractures while also 
  3 


Table of Contents

protecting uterine tissue. We are entitled to receive tiered royalties on net sales of bazedoxifene. Any such royalties may be subject to reduction or offset for past milestone payments and/or
may be subject to other terms and conditions set forth in our agreement.  Nexterone (Baxter International) 
In 2006, CyDex outlicensed Nexterone®, an injectable formulation combining amiodarone and CAPTISOL®, to Baxter International “Baxter” (formerly Prism Pharmaceuticals, Inc.). Under the terms of the agreement, Baxter is responsible, under an exclusive
worldwide license, for all development and commercialization of Nexterone at its sole expense. We are supplying CAPTISOL to Baxter for use in accordance with the terms of the license agreement under a separate supply agreement. Baxter has paid
milestone payments and is obligated to pay royalties to us on sales of Nexterone through March 2029. On November 19, 2010, Prism, who was subsequently acquired by Baxter, received marketing approval from the FDA for Nexterone and launched
Nexterone in the United States in 2011.  Select Late-Stage Development Programs 
We have multiple partnered programs in our portfolio that are either in or nearing the regulatory approval process. These programs
represent the next series of potential royalty generating assets in our portfolio.  PROMACTA (GSK, Phase III HepC-Related
Thrombocytopenia and PII Oncology-Related Thrombocytopenia)  PROMACTA is approved for ITP and we receive royalties from
GSK on world-wide sales. In an effort to expand PROMACTA’s use, GSK has recently completed two large Phase III studies (ENABLE 1 and 2) designed to demonstrate PROMACTA’s value in treatment of thrombocytopenia in patients with Hepatitis C.
In November 2011, GSK presented data at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Disease (AASLD) where it was reported that both studies met their primary endpoint with high statistical significance. Full analysis of all
safety data should be completed in the first half of 2012 and we expect an sNDA filing during 2012.  GSK is also conducting
Phase II clinical studies for oncology-related thrombocytopenia in patients with solid tumors, sarcoma and advanced Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) or Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia after MDS. 
Carfilzomib (Onyx, Phase III/NDA, Multiple Myeloma)  CyDex and Onyx Pharmaceuticals (formerly Proteolix) entered into a collaboration in 2005 to develop the CAPTISOL-enabled IV formulation of carfilzomib for refractory multiple myeloma. Onyx completed
filing of the NDA in 2011 and was granted a standard review by the FDA, with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date set as July 27, 2012. Onyx is continuing to run two large Phase III studies in support of this program, the ASPIRE and
FOCUS trials, which should complete in 2013. We are eligible to receive milestones, royalties and CAPTISOL material sales revenue from this program.  Aprela (Pfizer, Phase III, Post-Menopausal Symptoms)  In October
2010, we announced that our partner Pfizer, Inc. launched VIVIANT (bazedoxifene) in Japan for the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis. Pfizer is now combining VIVIANT with Premarin to create a combination therapy called Aprela for the treatment
of post-menopausal symptoms in women. Pfizer has completed PIII studies of Aprela and we expect an NDA filing in 2012. We are entitled to receive tiered royalties on all net sales of bazedoxifene, whether alone or in combination with other products.
Any such royalties may be subject to reduction or offset against past milestone payments and/or may be subject to other terms and conditions set forth in our agreement. 
  4 


Table of Contents
Merck CAPTISOL Program, Molecule Undisclosed(Merck, Phase III, Undisclosed Indication)
 Ligand and Merck entered into a CAPTISOL supply agreement in June 2011 for an undisclosed Merck program. Merck is
currently conducting a pivitol study for this program and we expect Merck to potentially file a 505(b)(2) in 2013 for approval to market this CAPTISOL program. Financial terms of the relationship remain undisclosed, but we expect to generate
substantial material sales revenue through the supply of CAPTISOL for this program.  CAPTISOL-Enabled Clopidogrel (The Medicines
Company, Phase III, Anti-coagulant)  We announced in June 2011 that we had licensed the full
world-wide rights to our CAPTISOL®-enabled clopidogrel program to The Medicines Company. Clopidogrel is the
active ingredient in PLAVIX®, the world’s leading anti-platelet medication which is currently only
available in an oral formulation. The CAPTISOL-enabled clopidogrel formulation is designed to provide an intravenous option in situations where the administration of oral platelet inhibitors is not feasible or desirable. We received an upfront
payment of $1.8 million, and are eligible to receive up to $22 million in milestones and up to double digit royalties on annual worldwide net sales. In addition, we will also supply both the clinical and commercial requirements of CAPTISOL for this
program, and if the intravenous formulation is approved for commercialization, we will be the exclusive supplier of the product. We recognized $0.9 million of the upfront payment as revenue and under the terms of our CyDex contingent value rights
agreement, remitted $0.9 million to CyDex shareholders.  The Medicines Company is planning to initiate a pivotal study for the
program in 2012 and we expect an NDA to be filed in 2013  DARA program (Retrophin, various stages and indications)
 In February 2012, we announced that we had licensed the full world-wide rights to DARA (a Dual Acting Receptor
Antagonist of Angiotension and Endothelin receptors). Retrophin intends to develop DARA for orphan indications of severe kidney diseases including Focal Segmental Glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) as well as conduct proof-of-concept studies in resistant
hypertension and diabetic nephropathy. Certain patient groups with severely compromised renal function exhibit extreme proteinuria resulting in progression to dialysis and a high mortality rate. DARA, with its unique dual blockade of angiotensin and
endothelin receptors, is expected to provide meaningful clinical benefits in mitigating proteinuria in indications where there are no approved therapies. We are entitled to receive a net up front payment of $1 million, and may receive, net of
amounts owed to third parties, over $75 million in milestones as well as 9% in royalties on potential future worldwide sales by Retrophin. 
Internal Product Development Programs  As summarized in the table below, we are developing several proprietary products for a variety of indications. These programs represent our future licensing opportunities to expand our partnered asset
portfolio.   








 Program
  
 Disease/Indication
  
 Development Phase





CAPTISOL-Enabled Melphalan IV
  
Oncology
  
Pivotal





 HepDirect HCV Inhibitor
  
Hepatitis C
  
Preclinical





 IRAK4 Inhibitor
  
Inflammation
  
Preclinical





 Glucagon Receptor Antagonist
  
Diabetes
  
Preclinical





 CAPTISOL-Enabled Topiramate
  
Epilepsy
  
Phase II

  5 


Table of Contents
CAPTISOL-Enabled Melphalan IV 
We are developing a proprietary CAPTISOL-enabled formulation of melphalan as an injectable, palliative treatment for
patients with multiple myeloma. Melphalan, which is currently marketed by GSK under the name Alkeran®, is the
standard of care for use in conditioning regimens prior to autologous stem cell transplant in patients with multiple myeloma. Our Captisol-enabled form of melphalan does not require a special non-aqueous dissolving solvent system - containing high
levels of propylene glycol—for reconstitution, and can be dissolved directly into saline. This allows for longer administration durations and slower infusion rates, enabling doctors to safely achieve a higher dose intensity of pre-transplant
chemotherapy. The CAPTISOL-enabled melphalan program has also obtained orphan drug designation from the FDA. In December 2011, we reported final phase II bioequivalence data from this program and expect to initiate a pivotal study in 2012 to support
a US 505(b)(2) filing with the FDA in 2013.  HepDirect HCV Inhibitor Program 
We are developing novel small molecule inhibitors of the Hepatitis C virus using our HepDirect technology platform. Data from current lead
molecules suggest that directing these molecules to the liver using the HepDirect technology produces fewer side effects and the potential for an overall superior risk-benefit ratio compared to non HepDirect therapies. We anticipate filing an IND
for our lead program in 2013.  IRAK4 Inhibitor Program  We are developing small molecule Interleukin-1 Receptor Associated Kinase-4 (IRAK4) inhibitors for the treatment of inflammatory and immune disorders. IRAK4 plays an important role in the innate immune
system and may also be important for cross-talk between the innate and adaptive immune systems. IRAK4 is a key signaling component downstream of both toll-like receptors and interleukin-1 receptors suggesting that it may have therapeutic value for a
range of autoimmune and inflammatory conditions. Inhibition of IRAK4 activity has been implicated in multiple diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, gout, inflammatory bowel disease, asthma, and allergic rhinitis.
Inhibitors of IRAK4 may also be useful for the treatment of certain leukemias and lymphomas. We have identified orally available small molecule inhibitors of IRAK4 which are under investigation for use in cancer and autoimmune diseases. 
Glucagon Receptor Antagonist Research Program  We are developing small molecule glucagon receptor antagonists for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes mellitus. Compounds that block the action of glucagon may reduce the hyperglycemia that is
characteristic of this disease. Glucagon stimulates the production of glucose by the liver and its release into the blood stream. In diabetic patients, glucagon secretion is abnormally elevated which contributes to hyperglycemia in these patients.
Compounds have been discovered that block the action of glucagon on human hepatocytes in vitro. Our advanced glucagon antagonist compounds demonstrate oral bioavailability in rodents.  Other Internal Programs Awaiting Further Development Funding, Either Through Ligand or a Partner   


 
•
 
 Aplindore (Phase II, Restless Leg/Parkinson’s)   


 
•
 
 Selective Androgen Receptor Modulator-SARM (Phase I, Muscle Wasting) 
 


 
•
 
 CAPTISOL-Enabled Nasal Budesonide (Phase I, Allergic Rhinitis) 
 


 
•
 
 Oral EPO-Receptor Agonist (Preclinical, Anemia)   


 
•
 
 GCSF-Receptor Agonist (Preclinical, Neutropenia)   


 
•
 
 Thyroid Receptor-beta Agonist (Preclinical, Dyslipidemia) 
  6 


Table of Contents


 
•
 
 Histamine H3 Receptor Antagonist (Preclinical, Cognitive Disorders) 
 


 
•
 
 Glucokinase Activator (Preclinical, Diabetes)   


 
•
 
 DGAT Inhibitor (Preclinical, Diabetes)   


 
•
 
 CCR1 Inhibitor (Preclinical, oncology)   


 
•
 
 CRTH2 Inhibitor (Preclinical, Inflammation)   


 
•
 
 Topical JAK3 (Preclinical, Inflammation)   


 
•
 
 Others  Recent
Acquisitions and Other Transactions  CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Acquisition 
On January 26, 2011, we completed the acquisition of CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. or CyDex. As a result, we gained revenue from four
currently marketed products and one currently approved product, a large portfolio of partnered drug development programs, an internal pipeline of proprietary drugs, and the CAPTISOL drug formulation platform technology. We paid $31.6 million in
cash, of which $20.0 million was financed, with an additional $4.3 million paid on the one-year anniversary of the transaction. In addition, as previously disclosed, Cydex stockholders are entitled to contingent cash payments related to certain
transactions and pursuant to a revenue share plan.  Strategic Alliance with Chiva Pharmaceuticals of China for HepDirect Drug Development
 In January 2011, we entered into a strategic relationship with Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Chiva, to develop several
of our assets and technology in China and potentially worldwide. Chiva was granted licenses to begin immediate development in China of our two clinical-stage HepDirect programs, Pradefovir for hepatitis B and MB01733 for hepatocellular carcinoma.
Additionally, we granted Chiva a non-exclusive HepDirect technology license for the discovery, development and worldwide commercialization of new compounds in hepatitis B (HepB), hepatitis C (HepC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). 
Chiva is obligated to develop these programs to address the high unmet medical need in China’s fast growing pharmaceutical market.
The Chinese government is offering financial support to pharmaceutical companies like Chiva who can develop innovative therapies in China for public health needs such as infectious disease and oncology. 
Under the terms of the agreement, we have the potential to earn over $100 million in milestones and royalties on potential sales related
to our assets. In August 2011, the contract was amended to increase the royalty rates we are eligible to receive on licensed products in return for relinquishing rights to a 10% equity position in Chiva that we were entitled to under the original
agreement.  CAPTISOL License and Supply Agreement with The Medicines Company to Develop CAPTISOL-Enabled Clopidogrel 
In June 2011, we entered into a CAPTISOL License and Supply Agreement with The Medicines Company for development and
commercialization of CAPTISOL-enabled clopidogrel for use as an intravenous drug. Under this License Agreement, we received a $1.8 million upfront payment, of which $0.9 million was remitted to the CyDex CVR holders. We are entitled to potentially
receive up to $22 million of milestone payments.  We are also eligible to receive, under the License Agreement, a substantial
royalty on worldwide net sales of The Medicines Company’s intravenous clopidogrel formulated with CAPTISOL, and we also expect to manufacture and sell clinical and commercial supplies of CAPTISOL to The Medicines Company. 
  7 


Table of Contents
CAPTISOL Supply Agreement with Merck for Undisclosed Program 
In June 2011, we entered into a commercial supply agreement to provide CAPTISOL® to Merck. Under the Supply Agreement, we exclusively licensed intellectual property rights related to CAPTISOL to
commercialize the licensed product worldwide and non-exclusively licensed such intellectual property rights and data related to CAPTISOL to engage in activities related to regulatory approval for the licensed product worldwide. The companies also
agreed to mutual exclusivity terms.  In consideration for the associated data package and intellectual property rights, Merck
agreed to make milestone payments associated with specified regulatory events related to the licensed product. Merck also will pay an increased supply price in lieu of a royalty on net sales of the licensed product. 
Fablyn License Agreement with Chiva Pharmaceuticals  In October 2011, we entered into a License Agreement with Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Under the License Agreement, we granted to Chiva an exclusive worldwide license, with sub-license rights, to our
intellectual property rights related to Fablyn, a selective estrogen receptor modulator. Chiva is obligated to pay us a non-refundable license issuance fee of $4 million on or before June 1, 2012. We are also eligible to receive, under the
License Agreement, both milestones and royalty payments on worldwide net sales of Fablyn.  CAPTISOL License and Supply Agreement with SAGE
Therapeutics  In October 2011, we entered into a License Agreement with SAGE Therapeutics, Inc.,
or SAGE, granting SAGE an exclusive right to use CAPTISOL® in SAGE’s development and commercialization of
therapeutic drugs formulating certain allosteric receptor modulators with CAPTISOL against identified central nervous system disorders. Under the License Agreement, we will receive upfront and research support payments, and potentially can receive
additional payments if SAGE exercises certain product commercialization options. Upon commercialization, we could potentially receive milestone payments for CAPTISOL-enabled programs, plus tiered royalties on net sales for products that use the
CAPTISOL technology. We are also eligible to receive material sales revenue from the shipment of CAPTISOL to SAGE for clinical and commercial activities.  CAPTISOL License and Supply Agreement with Eli Lilly 
In December 2011, we entered into a License and Supply Agreement with Eli Lilly (“Lilly”) and Company.
Under the License Agreement, we granted to Lilly an exclusive, nontransferable license to such intellectual property rights that will enable Lilly to develop and potentially commercialize CAPTISOL-enabled® intravenous oncology therapeutics. Lilly paid us a non-refundable license issuance fee of $1 million. We are also
eligible to receive royalty payments on worldwide net sales of any products that are successfully commercialized.  Under the
Supply Agreement, Lilly agreed to purchase from us its CAPTISOL requirements for the development of the compounds contemplated by the License Agreement, as well as any CAPTISOL required for any product that is successfully commercialized.
 CAPTISOL License and Supply Agreement with Hospira for Undisclosed Program 
In December 2011, we entered into a License and Supply Agreement with Hospira, Inc. Under the Agreement, we
granted a license in specified territories, with sub-license rights, to such intellectual property rights that will enable the manufacture and sale of certain finished drug products of which
CAPTISOL® is a component. The terms of the Agreement call for us to receive a non-refundable license fee of $0.5
million. In addition, we received a pre-payment of $2.5 million, to be applied as a credit toward the first $2.5 million of CAPTISOL supplied under the Agreement. In the event of a termination prior to us supplying $2.5 million of CAPTISOL, we will
refund the difference of the value of CAPTISOL supplied and the $2.5 million pre-payment. We are also eligible to receive milestone payments upon the occurrence of certain specified sales goals. 
  8 


Table of Contents
Technology  We employ various research laboratory methods to discover and conduct preclinical development of new chemical entities. These methods are performed either in our own laboratories or in those of contract
research organizations under our direction.  In our efforts to discover new and important medicines, we have concentrated on
certain technologies and acquired special expertise related to intracellular receptors and the receptors for hematopoietic growth factors. Intracellular receptors are involved in the actions of non-peptide hormones and drugs such as selective
estrogen receptor modulators, or SERMs, and SARMs. Hematopoietic growth factor receptors are involved in the differentiation and proliferation of blood cell progenitors, the formation of new blood cells, and the action of drugs such as PROMACTA,
Epogen and Neumega. We use and have developed particular expertise in co-transfection assays, which measure gene transcription in response to the activation of a target receptor, and gene expression in cells selected for expression of particular
receptors or transfected with cDNA for particular receptors. Some of these methods are covered by patents issued to or licensed by us, are trade secrets, or are methods that are in the public domain, but that we may use in novel ways to improve our
efficiency in identifying promising leads and developing new chemical entities.  In connection with our merger with Metabasis,
we acquired certain HepDirect Technology. HepDirect technology supplements our core drug discovery technology platform of ligand-dependent gene expression. HepDirect is a prodrug technology that targets delivery of certain drugs to the liver by
using a proprietary chemical modification that renders a drug biologically inactive until cleaved by a liver-specific enzyme. 
In connection with our acquisition of CyDex, we acquired the CAPTISOL drug formulation platform technology. We use this technology to
improve the solubility, stability, and/or pharmacokinetics of drugs, whether in our own internal development pipeline or those of our partners.  In September 1993, CyDex obtained from the University of Kansas, or KU, an exclusive, worldwide license, with the right to sublicense, under the original CAPTISOL patents, as well as intellectual property
covering the results generated during specified CyDex-sponsored research activities at KU. We are responsible for maintaining the Drug Master File (“DMF”) for CAPTISOL. KU retained a research license to the technology for noncommercial
educational and research purposes, and agreed to assign to us its then-pending license agreements with Pfizer relating to CAPTISOL.  In August 2004, the KU license agreement was amended to replace all future payment terms under the agreement, including royalties, with a concurrent lump sum payment and issuance of CyDex stock to KU. KU
also granted us a right of first refusal to acquire exclusive, worldwide rights to any future improvements to CAPTISOL, including any next generation formulations of CAPTISOL, that are developed by KU or by third parties pursuant to research
sublicenses granted by KU. KU is obligated to disclose to us in writing any such improvement, and upon receipt of such information, we may exercise our right of first refusal to obtain such an exclusive license upon terms and conditions not
materially different than those described in the original KU license agreement. To date, we have not exercised our right of first refusal to acquire any such improvements. The license agreement with KU will remain in force until the expiration of
all licensed patents.  In December 1993, as contemplated by our license agreement with KU, KU entered into an option agreement
with Pfizer, simultaneously transferring to us all of KU’s rights and obligations under that agreement.  Manufacturing 
We currently have no manufacturing facilities and, accordingly, rely on third parties, including our collaborative partners, for clinical
production of any products or compounds. 
  9 


Table of Contents
We currently outsource the production of CAPTISOL to Hovione FarmaCiencia SA, or
Hovione, a major supplier of APIs and API intermediates located in Lisbon, Portugal. In December 2002, CyDex entered into a CAPTISOL supply agreement with Hovione, under which Hovione is our exclusive supplier of CAPTISOL and is restricted from
supplying CAPTISOL to third parties, so long as specified conditions are met. In addition to its main manufacturing site in Loures, Portugal, Hovione will qualify a second site in Macau if our forecast requirements for CAPTISOL exceed the
capabilities of the Loures site. We have ongoing minimum purchase commitments under the agreement and are required to pay Hovione an aggregate minimum amount during the agreement term. Hovione must supply amounts exceeding our forecasts by a fixed
percent. In January 2008, we entered into an amendment to the supply agreement, under which we and Hovione agreed to reduce our minimum annual purchase requirement of CAPTISOL and to extend the term of the agreement. 
We pay Hovione unit prices, in U.S. dollars, for all CAPTISOL supplied after the commercial production date, which prices may be adjusted
based on the following:   


 
•
 
 fluctuation in currency exchange rates;   


 
•
 
 change in raw material prices;   


 
•
 
 change in the Portuguese consumer price index; and   


 
•
 
 our requested changes to the CAPTISOL manufacturing process or specifications. 
In the event of a CAPTISOL supply interruption, we are permitted to designate and, with Hovione’s assistance, qualify one or more
alternate suppliers. If the supply interruption continues beyond a designated period, we may terminate the agreement. In addition, if Hovione cannot supply our requirements of CAPTISOL due to an uncured force majeure event or if the unit price of
CAPTISOL exceeds a set figure, we may obtain CAPTISOL from a third party. In December 2011, the contract was amended to allow certain bulk quantities of CAPTISOL to be distributed directly from Hovione. 
Unless terminated earlier, the agreement will continue until it expires in December 2019. The term will automatically continue after the
initial term for successive two year renewal terms, unless either party gives written notice of its intention to terminate the agreement no less than two years prior to the expiration of the initial term or renewal term. In addition, either party
may terminate the agreement for the uncured material breach or bankruptcy of the other party or an extended force majeure event. We may terminate the agreement for extended supply interruption, regulatory action related to CAPTISOL or other
specified events.  For further discussion of these items, see below under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  Research and Development Expenses 
Research and development expenses from continuing operations were $10.3 million, $22.1 million, and $39.9 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively, of which 99%, 61%, and 47%, respectively, were sponsored by us.  There were no research and development expenses
from discontinued operations in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Competition 
Some of the drugs we are developing may compete with existing therapies or other drugs in development by other companies. A number of
pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are pursuing intracellular receptor-related approaches to drug discovery and development. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting
research may seek patent protection with respect to potentially competing products or technologies and may establish collaborative arrangements with our competitors. 
  10 


Table of Contents
Many of our existing or potential competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies,
have greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market products. Many of these companies also have extensive experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials,
obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals and manufacturing and marketing pharmaceutical products.  Our competitive
position also depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, obtain patent protection or otherwise develop proprietary products or processes, and secure sufficient capital resources for the often substantial period between
technological conception and commercial sales. For a discussion of the risks associated with competition, see below under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  Government Regulation  The manufacturing and marketing of our products, our
ongoing research and development activities and products being developed by our collaborative partners are subject to regulation for safety and efficacy by numerous governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United
States, pharmaceuticals are subject to rigorous regulation by federal and various state authorities, including the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and the Public Health Service Act govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy,
labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. There are often comparable regulations that apply at the state level. Product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years
and involves the expenditure of substantial resources.  The steps required before a pharmaceutical agent may be marketed in
the United States include (1) preclinical laboratory tests, (2) the submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence, (3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to
establish the safety and efficacy of the drug, (4) the submission of an NDA to the FDA and (5) the FDA approval of the NDA prior to any commercial sale or shipment of the drug. In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each product, each
domestic drug-manufacturing establishment must be registered with the FDA and, in California, with the Food and Drug Branch of California. Domestic manufacturing establishments are subject to pre-approval inspections by the FDA prior to marketing
approval, then to biennial inspections, and must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP). To supply products for use in the United States, foreign manufacturing establishments must comply with cGMP and are subject to periodic
inspection by the FDA or by regulatory authorities in such countries under reciprocal agreements with the FDA.  For both
currently marketed and future products, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements after obtaining regulatory approval can, among other things, result in the suspension of regulatory approval, as well as possible civil and criminal
sanctions. In addition, changes in existing regulations could have a material adverse effect to us.  For marketing outside the
United States before FDA approval to market, we must submit an export permit application to the FDA. We also are subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for drugs. The requirements relating
to the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country and there can be no assurance that we or any of our partners will meet and sustain any such requirements. 
We are also increasingly subject to regulation by the states. A number of states now regulate, for example, pharmaceutical marketing
practices and the reporting of marketing activities, controlled substances, clinical trials and general commercial practices. We have developed and are developing a number of policies and procedures to ensure our compliance with these state laws, in
addition to the federal regulations described above. Significant resources are now required on an ongoing basis to ensure such compliance. For a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations, see below under “Item 1A. Risk
Factors.” 
  11 


Table of Contents
Patents and Proprietary Rights 
We believe that patents and other proprietary rights are important to our business. Our policy is to file patent applications to protect
technology, inventions and improvements to our inventions that are considered important to the development of our business. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop and
maintain our competitive position.  Royalties we currently receive from Pfizer, as successor to King on AVINZA represent a
portion of our ongoing revenue. The United States patent on AVINZA is not expected to expire until November 2017; however, applications for generic forms of AVINZA have been submitted to the FDA. The last to expire United States patents relating to
PROMACTA is not expected to expire until December 2024. The last to expire United States patents related to CAPTISOL is not expected to expire until 2029. Subject to compliance with the terms of the respective agreements, our rights under our
licenses with our exclusive licensors extend for the life of the patents covering such developments. For a discussion of the risks associated with patent and proprietary rights, see below under “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” 
Human Resources  As of
February 1, 2012, we had 21 full-time employees, of whom 7 are involved directly in scientific research and development activities. Of these employees, 6 hold Ph.D. or M.D. degrees. 
  12 


Table of Contents


ITEM 1A.
RISK FACTORS  The
following is a summary description of some of the many risks we face in our business. You should carefully review these risks in evaluating our business, including the businesses of our subsidiaries. You should also consider the other information
described in this report.  Risks Related To Us and Our Business.  Our business has recently undergone a significant change, and we may not be successful in integrating the CAPTISOL technology and CyDex’s other development product candidates into our existing
operations or in realizing the planned results from our recently expanded product portfolio and pipeline.  In January
2011, we completed our merger with CyDex, in which we obtained the CAPTISOL technology, in addition to other product candidates. We will need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize the benefits from this acquisition. These challenges
will include the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of tasks, including the following:   


 
•
 
 integrating CyDex into our existing operations;   


 
•
 
 integrating CyDex’s developmental product candidates and successfully managing the development and regulatory processes; and
  


 
•
 
 coordinating with CyDex’s and our collaborative partners concerning the development, manufacturing, regulatory and intellectual property
protection strategies for CAPTISOL and new development product candidates.  In addition, we rely on our
collaborative partners for many aspects of our developmental and commercialization activities, and we are subject to risks related to their financial stability and solvency. We may not succeed in addressing these risks or any other problems
encountered in connection with the acquisition of CyDex.  Furthermore, all of CyDex’s products and product candidates, as
well as the technology that it outlicenses, are based on CAPTISOL. In addition, CyDex or its partners are attempting to develop some product candidates that may contain significantly higher levels of CAPTISOL than in any currently-approved product
and has directed developers to demonstrate an adequate safety margin, and specifically acceptable renal safety. If products or product candidates incorporating CAPTISOL technology were to cause any unexpected adverse events, whether in preclinical
studies, clinical trials or as commercialized products, whether as a result of CAPTISOL or otherwise, the perception of CAPTISOL safety could be seriously harmed. If this were to occur, we may not be able to market these products unless and until we
are able to demonstrate that the adverse event was unrelated to CAPTISOL, which we may not be able to do. Further, whether or not the adverse event was a result of CAPTISOL, we could be required by the FDA to submit to additional regulatory reviews
or approvals, including extensive safety testing or clinical testing of products using CAPTISOL, which would be expensive and, even if we were to demonstrate that the adverse event was unrelated to CAPTISOL, would delay our marketing of
CAPTISOL-enabled products and receipt of revenue related to those products.  Royalties based on sales of AVINZA and PROMACTA represent a
substantial portion of our revenues.  Pfizer, as successor to King is obligated to pay us royalties based on its sales
of AVINZA and GSK is obligated to pay us royalties on its sales of PROMACTA. These royalties are expected to be a substantial portion of our ongoing revenues for some time. As a result, any setback that may occur with respect to AVINZA or PROMACTA
could significantly impair our operating results and/or reduce the market price of our stock. Setbacks for AVINZA and PROMACTA could include problems with shipping, distribution, manufacturing, product safety, marketing, government regulation,
licenses and approvals, intellectual property rights, competition with existing or new products and physician or patient acceptance of the products, as well as higher than expected total rebates, returns or discounts. 
  13 


Table of Contents
AVINZA or PROMACTA could also face regulatory action and product safety issues. For example,
the FDA previously requested expanded warnings on the AVINZA label to alert doctors and patients to the dangers of using AVINZA with alcohol. Changes were subsequently made to the label. The FDA also requested clinical studies to investigate the
risks associated with taking AVINZA with alcohol. Any additional warnings, studies and any further regulatory action could have significant adverse effects on AVINZA sales.  In September 2007, King reported that Actavis, a manufacturer of generic pharmaceutical products headquartered in Iceland, had filed with the FDA an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, with a
Paragraph IV Certification pertaining to AVINZA, the rights to which were acquired by King from us in February 2007. According to the report, Actavis’s Paragraph IV Certification sets forth allegations that U.S. Patent No. 6,066,339, or
the 339 patent, which pertains to AVINZA, and which is listed in the FDA’s Approved Drug Products With Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, will not be infringed by Actavis’s manufacture, use, or sale of the product for which the ANDA was
submitted. The expiration date for this patent is November 2017. King, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., Elan Corporation, plc, or Elan, and Elan Pharma International Ltd. jointly filed suit in federal district court in New Jersey
on October 18, 2007 against Actavis, Inc. and Actavis Elizabeth LLC for patent infringement under the 339 patent. The lawsuit was settled and dismissed without prejudice in July 2011. 
In July 2009, King, King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., Elan and Elan Pharma International Ltd. jointly filed suit in
federal district court in New Jersey against Sandoz Inc., or Sandoz, for patent infringement under the 339 patent. According to the complaint, Sandoz filed an ANDA for morphine sulfate extended release capsules and, in connection with the ANDA
filing, Sandoz provided written certification to the FDA alleging that the claims of the 339 patent are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by the manufacture, use or sale of Sandoz’s proposed morphine product. Similar to the
lawsuit against Actavis, this lawsuit seeks a judgment that would, among other things, prevent Sandoz from commercializing its proposed morphine product until after expiration of the 339 patent. Trial was previously expected to be set to start
during the second half of 2011, but the court ordered a stay of proceedings starting on May 2, 2011. An adverse judgement on the patent could significantly impact our future revenues.  Our product candidates face significant development and regulatory hurdles prior to marketing which could delay or prevent sales and/or milestone revenue. 
Before we or our partners obtain the approvals necessary to sell any of our potential products, we must show through preclinical studies
and human testing that each product is safe and effective. We and our partners have a number of products moving toward or currently awaiting regulatory action. Failure to show any product’s safety and effectiveness could delay or prevent
regulatory approval of a product and could adversely affect our business. The clinical trials process is complex and uncertain. For example, the results of preclinical studies and initial clinical trials may not necessarily predict the results from
later large-scale clinical trials. In addition, clinical trials may not demonstrate a product’s safety and effectiveness to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities. Recently, a number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in
advanced clinical trials or in seeking regulatory approvals, despite promising results in earlier trials. The FDA may also require additional clinical trials after regulatory approvals are received. Such additional trials may be expensive and
time-consuming, and failure to successfully conduct those trials could jeopardize continued commercialization of a product. 
The rates at which we complete our clinical trials depends on many factors, including, but are not limited to, our ability to obtain
adequate supplies of the products to be tested and patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the
trial. Delays in patient enrollment for our trials may result in increased costs and longer development times. For example, the trial entitled “Eltrombopag To Reduce The Need For Platelet Transfusion In Subjects With Chronic Liver Disease And
Thrombocytopenia Undergoing Elective Invasive Procedures (ELEVATE)” was suspended in October 2009 in accordance with an IDMC Recommendation. GSK 
  14 


Table of Contents

terminated the ELEVATE study and the program is under review. In addition, our collaborative partners have rights to control product development and clinical programs for products developed under
the collaborations. As a result, these collaborative partners may conduct these programs more slowly or in a different manner than expected. Moreover, even if clinical trials are completed, we or our collaborative partners still may not apply for
FDA approval in a timely manner or the FDA still may not grant approval.  We rely heavily on collaborative relationships, and any
disputes or litigation with our collaborative partners or termination or breach of any of the related agreements could reduce the financial resources available to us, including milestone payments and future royalty revenues. 
Our strategy for developing and commercializing many of our potential products, including products aimed at larger markets, includes
entering into collaborations with corporate partners and others. These collaborations have provided us with funding and research and development resources for potential products for the treatment of a variety of diseases. However, the funding
provided to us by our existing collaborative partners for ongoing research and development under our existing collaborative agreements has ceased. These agreements also give our collaborative partners significant discretion when deciding whether or
not to pursue any development program. Our existing collaborations may not continue or be successful, and we may be unable to enter into future collaborative arrangements to develop and commercialize our product candidates. 
In addition, our collaborators may develop drugs, either alone or with others that compete with the types of drugs they are developing
with us. This would result in increased competition for our programs. If products are approved for marketing under our collaborative programs, revenues we receive will depend on the manufacturing, marketing and sales efforts of our collaborative
partners, who generally retain commercialization rights under the collaborative agreements. Generally, our current collaborative partners also have the right to terminate their collaborations under specified circumstances. If any of our
collaborative partners breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully, our product development under these agreements will be delayed or terminated. Disputes or litigation may
also arise with our collaborators, including disputes or litigation over ownership rights to intellectual property, know-how or technologies developed with our collaborators. Such disputes or litigation could adversely affect our rights to one or
more of our product candidates. Any such dispute or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the collaborative research, development and commercialization of certain potential products, create uncertainty as to ownership rights of intellectual
property, or could result in litigation or arbitration. The occurrence of any of these problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business.  We obtain CAPTISOL from a sole source supplier, and if this supplier were to cease to be able to supply CAPTISOL to us, or decline to supply CAPTISOL to us, we would be unable to continue to derive
revenue or continue to develop our product candidates until we obtained an alternative source, which could take a considerable length of time.  We currently have one supplier of CAPTISOL, Hovione FarmaCiencia SA, or Hovione, through its agent Hovione LLC. Hovione is a major supplier of APIs and API intermediates located in Lisbon,
Portugal. Hovione has other production sites in Cork, Ireland and Macau, China, but those sites are not yet qualified to make CAPTISOL. If a major disaster were to happen at Hovione or Hovione were to suffer major production problems or were to fail
to deliver CAPTISOL to us for any other reason, there could be a significant interruption of our CAPTISOL supply. While we carry a significant inventory of CAPTISOL for this type of occurrence, which should permit us to satisfy our existing supply
obligations through 2012 under current and anticipated demand conditions, an unusually large order or two could rapidly deplete that inventory and cause significant problems with our licensees and disrupt our business. In addition, if we fail to
supply CAPTISOL under our supply agreements, our customers could obtain the right to have CAPTISOL manufactured by other suppliers, which would significantly harm our business. 
  15 


Table of Contents
We rely on contract manufacturers for the manufacture of CAPTISOL and product candidates, and if these
contract manufacturers fail to perform as we expect, we will incur delays in our ability to generate revenue and substantial additional expenses in obtaining new contract manufacturers.  
We do not manufacture products or product candidates, but rather contract with contract manufacturers for the manufacture of products and
product candidates. With respect to any specific product or product candidate, we only contract with one contract manufacturer due to the high cost of compliance with good manufacturing practices prior to the contract manufacturer being permitted to
manufacture the product or product candidate for use in humans. If a contract manufacturer is unable or unwilling to continue to manufacture for us in the future, we would be required to contract with a new contract manufacturer for the specific
product or product candidate. In the case of products, this would cause us to lose revenue during the qualification process, and in the case of product candidates, this could cause a delay in the commercialization of the product candidate. In
addition, in either case we would incur substantial additional expenses as a result of the new contract manufacturer becoming qualified. Further, if a contract manufacturer were to experience a delay in producing products or product candidates due
to a failure to meet strict FDA manufacturing requirements or otherwise, we would also experience a delay in development and commercialization of the product candidate or, in the case of products, sales of the product. This risk is exacerbated in
the case of manufacture of injectables, which require heightened sterility and other conditions as well as specialized facilities for preparation.  If we consume cash more quickly than expected, and if we are unable to raise additional capital, we may be forced to curtail operations. 
Our operations have consumed substantial amounts of cash since inception. As of December 31, 2011, we had a negative working capital
of $11.4 million. Clinical and preclinical development of drug candidates is a long, expensive and uncertain process. Also, we may acquire companies, businesses or products and the consummation of such acquisitions may consume additional cash. For
example, as part of the consideration for our recent acquisition of CyDex, we distributed approximately $12.0 million of our cash to CyDex stockholders. In connection with the acquisition, we entered into a $20 million Loan and Security Agreement,
or the Loan Agreement, with a lender. Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, we will make interest only payments for one year at a fixed rate of 8.64%, with an option to extend the interest only payments for an additional year, which we intend to
exercise. Subsequent to the interest only payments, the note will amortize with principal and interest payments due through the remaining term of the loan. The loan term, including interest only payments, is 42 months. 
The Contingent Value Rights Agreement (“CVR Agreement”) that was part of the CyDex acquisition obligated us to pay $4.3 million
in January 2012 to the CyDex stockholders. In addition, in the event of a Default (as defined in the CVR Agreement), we would be obligated to deliver to an escrow agent the future cash payments called for under the CVR Agreement. There can be no
assurances that in the event of a Default that we would be able to deliver the lump sum payment to the escrow agent.  In
March 2011, we borrowed $5.0 million from Square 1 Bank and April 2011 we borrowed an additional $5.0 million from Square 1. All outstanding amounts under the loan bear interest at a floating rate equal to 200 basis points above the prime rate
and may become immediately due and payable if we fail to maintain a cash balance at Square 1 of at least $5.0 million. The maturity date of the revolving line of credit facility is March 29, 2012. We paid $4.5 million on our revolving credit
facility in January 2012.  In October 2011, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) for the issuance and sale of up to $30 million of equity or other securities, proceeds from which will be used for general corporate purposes. The Form S-3 provides additional financial flexibility for the Company to
sell shares as needed at any time. To date, no securities have been issued under this registration statement. 
  16 


Table of Contents
We believe that our capital resources, including our currently available cash, cash
equivalents, and short-term investments as well as our current and future royalty revenues, will be adequate to fund our operations at their current levels at least for the next twelve months. However, changes may occur that would cause us to
consume available capital resources before that time. Examples of relevant potential changes that could impact our capital resources include:   


 
•
 
 the costs associated with our drug research and development activities, and additional costs we may incur if our development programs are delayed or
are more expensive to implement than we currently anticipate;   


 
•
 
 changes in collaborative relationships, including the funding we receive in connection with those relationships; 
 


 
•
 
 the progress of our milestone and royalty producing activities; 
 


 
•
 
 acquisitions of other businesses or technologies;   


 
•
 
 the termination of our lease agreements;   


 
•
 
 the costs of the closure of our operations at our Cranbury, New Jersey facility; 
 


 
•
 
 the purchase of additional capital equipment;   


 
•
 
 cash payments, including CVR payments, or refunds we may be required to make pursuant to certain agreements with third parties;
  


 
•
 
 competing technological and market developments; and   


 
•
 
 the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent claims and other intellectual property rights, and the outcome of related litigation.
 Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If additional capital is not
available, we may be required to curtail operations significantly, including but not limited to reducing our current headcount, or to obtain funds by entering into arrangements with partners or other third parties that may require us to relinquish
rights to certain of our technologies, products or potential markets that we would not otherwise relinquish.  Our collaborative partners
may change their strategy or the focus of their development and commercialization efforts with respect to our alliance products, the success of our alliance products could be adversely affected. 
If our collaborative partners terminate their collaborations with us or do not commit sufficient resources to the development,
manufacture, marketing or distribution of our alliance products, we could be required to devote additional resources to our alliance products, seek new collaborative partners or abandon such alliance products, all of which could have an adverse
effect on our business.  In March 2011, Pfizer completed its acquisition of King, which had purchased the AVINZA product line
from us. There can be no assurance of the impact that this acquisition will have on our relationship with Pfizer.  In
September 2010, we received notice from GSK that it was exercising its right to terminate the Product Development and Commercialization Agreement, dated as of March 24, 2006 and as amended, among SmithKlineBeecham Corporation, doing business as
GlaxoSmithKline, Glaxo Group Limited and Pharmacopeia, LLC, as successor to Pharmacopeia Drug Discovery, Inc. The termination became effective on October 7, 2010. Absent the termination by GSK, the research term under this agreement would have
terminated on March 24, 2011. Following termination, we retained rights to the current programs under this agreement and may continue to develop the programs and commercialize any products resulting from the programs, or we may elect to cease
progressing the programs and/or seek other partners for further development and commercialization. 
  17 


Table of Contents
In September 2011, we received a notice from MedImmune (a subsidiary of AstraZeneca) that it
was exercising its right to terminate the Collaboration and License Agreement, dated April 19, 2001. Upon termination, all materials and know-how related to the IL-9 antibody program by MedImmune was returned to us. MedImmune is required to
discuss the granting of a royalty-bearing license to intellectual property with respect to the product licensed under the agreement. However, MedImmune has no obligation to grant such a license or retain the ability to grant such a license. The
termination was effective on November 30, 2011.  In October 2011, we received notice from Merck that it was exercising
its right to terminate the Collaboration and License Agreement, dated November 24, 2003. The collaboration and licensing program was related to the physiology, pharmacology, chemistry, and potential therapeutic applications and potential
clinical utilities related to Vanilloid Receptors, subtype 1, also known as TRPV1. Upon termination, Merck is required to transfer and/or disclose specified materials and know-how to us (which is under an obligation to transfer certain specified
materials to Merck). In addition, we will receive an exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free (but subject to any third party royalty obligations), fully-paid, worldwide license, with right to sub-license, under specified patents and
technology for the research, development or commercialization of specified compounds and products in a limited field of use. We will also receive a non-exclusive license to all other know-how Merck deems necessary to sell the specified compounds or
products. The termination will be effective on April 18, 2012.  We are currently dependent upon outlicensing business and we
may not be successful in entering into additional out-license agreements on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our liquidity or require us to alter development plans on our products. 
We have entered into several out-licensing agreements for the development and commercialization of our products. We currently depend on
our arrangements with our outlicensees to sell products using our CAPTISOL technology. These agreements generally provide that outlicensees may terminate the agreements at will. If our outlicensees discontinue sales of products using our CAPTISOL
technology, fail to obtain regulatory approval for their products using our CAPTISOL technology, fail to satisfy their obligations under their agreements with us, or otherwise choose to utilize a generic form of CAPTISOL should it become available,
or if we are unable to establish new licensing and marketing relationships, our financial results and growth prospects would be materially affected. Further, under most of our CAPTISOL outlicenses, the amount of royalties we receive will be reduced
or will cease when the relevant patent expires. While we have other more recent patents relating to CAPTISOL with later expiration dates (for example, our high purity patent, U.S. Patent No. 7,635,773 is not expected to expire until 2029 and
our morphology patent, U.S. Patent No. 7,629,331 is not expected to expire until 2025), the initially filed patents relating to CAPTISOL expired in 2010 in the U.S. and are expected to expire between 2011 and 2016 in most countries outside the
U.S. If our other intellectual property rights are not sufficient to prevent a generic form of CAPTISOL from coming to market and if in such case our outlicensees choose to terminate their agreements with us, the source of the vast majority of our
CAPTISOL revenue may cease to exist.  Although we expend considerable resources on internal research and development for our
proprietary programs, we may not be successful in entering into additional out-licensing agreements under favorable terms due to several factors including:   


 
•
 
 the difficulty in creating valuable product candidates that target large market opportunities; 
 


 
•
 
 research and spending priorities of potential licensing partners; 
 


 
•
 
 willingness of and the resources available to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to in-license product candidates for their clinical pipelines;
or   


 
•
 
 differences of opinion with potential partners on the valuation of products we are seeking to out-license. 
  18 


Table of Contents
The inability to enter into out-licensing agreements under favorable terms and to earn
milestone payments, license fees and/or upfront fees may adversely affect our liquidity and may force us to curtail or delay development of some or all of our proprietary programs, which in turn may harm our business and the value of our stock.
 Third party intellectual property may prevent us or our partners from developing our potential products and we may owe a portion of any
payments we receive from our collaborative partners to one or more third parties.  Our success will depend on our
ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. In addition, disputes with licensors under our license agreements may arise which could
result in additional financial liability or loss of important technology and potential products and related revenue, if any. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our potential products or our collaborative partners’ products or potential
products may infringe the patent rights of others. This could impact AVINZA, PROMACTA, VIVIANT and CONBRIZA (bazedoxifene), lasofoxifene, LGD-4665, and any other products or potential products. 
Several drug companies and research and academic institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents
for technologies that may be related to our business. Others have filed patent applications and received patents that conflict with patents or patent applications we have licensed for our use, either by claiming the same methods or compounds or by
claiming methods or compounds that could dominate those licensed to us. In addition, we may not be aware of all patents or patent applications that may impact our ability to make, use or sell any of our potential products. For example, US patent
applications may be kept confidential while pending in the United States Patent and Trademark Office and patent applications filed in foreign countries are often first published six months or more after filing. 
Disagreements or litigation with our collaborative partners could delay our ability and the ability of our collaborative partners to
achieve milestones or our receipt of other payments. In addition, other possible disagreements or litigation could delay, interrupt or terminate the research, development and commercialization of certain potential products being developed by either
our collaborative partners or by us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing problems could be time-consuming and expensive and could adversely affect our business.  Third parties have not directly threatened an action or claim against us, although we do periodically receive other communications or have other conversations with the owners of other patents or other
intellectual property. If others obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to those patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such licenses on acceptable terms, or at
all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our potential products.  In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our results of operations and
financial condition. We cannot predict or determine the outcome of these matters or reasonably estimate the amount or range of amounts of any fines or penalties that might result from a settlement or an adverse outcome. However, a settlement or an
adverse outcome could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.  Expirations of,
challenges to or failure to secure patents and other proprietary rights may significantly hurt our business.  The
initially filed patents relating to CAPTISOL expired in 2010 in the U.S. and are expected to expire between 2011 and 2016 in most countries outside the U.S. We have also obtained patent protection in the U.S. through 2025 on Agglomerated form and
through 2029 on High Purity form of CAPTISOL. We have obtained patent protection on a number of combinations of APIs and CAPTISOL through three combination patents in the 
  19 


Table of Contents

U.S., and we have applied for six additional combination patents in the U.S. relating to the combination of CAPTISOL with specific APIs. Our U.S. combination patent relating to Fosphenytoin
expires June 12, 2018 and our U.S. combination patent relating to Amiodarone expires May 4, 2022. Our U.S. combination patent relating to one of our early-stage product candidates expires March 19, 2022. There is no guarantee that
these patents will be sufficient to prevent competitors from creating a generic form of CAPTISOL after 2010 and competing against us, or from developing combination patents for products that will prevent us from developing products using those APIs.
In addition, most of the agreements in our CAPTISOL outlicensing business, including our agreements with Pfizer relating to Geodon IM, Vfend IV and Cerenia, provide that once the relevant patent expires, the amount of royalties we receive
will be reduced or eliminated.  Generally, our success will depend on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain
and maintain patents and proprietary rights for our potential products both in the United States and in foreign countries. Patents may not be issued from any of these applications currently on file, or, if issued, may not provide sufficient
protection. Our patent position, like that of many biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and technical questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights
to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the technology we own or have licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we
own or license and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us.  Any conflicts
resulting from the patent rights of others could significantly reduce the coverage of our patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. We have had and will continue to have discussions with our current and potential
collaborative partners regarding the scope and validity of our patents and other proprietary rights. If a collaborative partner or other party successfully establishes that our patent rights are invalid, we may not be able to continue our existing
collaborations beyond their expiration. Any determination that our patent rights are invalid also could encourage our collaborative partners to seek early termination of our agreements. Such invalidation could adversely affect our ability to enter
into new collaborations.  We may also need to initiate litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive, to enforce our
proprietary rights or to determine the scope and validity of others’ rights. If litigation occurs, a court may find our patents or those of our licensors invalid or may find that we have infringed on a competitor’s rights. In addition, if
any of our competitors have filed patent applications in the United States which claim technology we also have invented, the United States Patent and Trademark Office may require us to participate in expensive interference proceedings to determine
who has the right to a patent for the technology.  We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to protect and
maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, collaborative partners and others to sign confidentiality agreements when they begin their relationship with us. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate
remedies for any breach. In addition, our competitors may independently discover our trade secrets.  Our product development involves a
number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient collaborative payments and royalties from the development of products to become profitable.  We were founded in 1987. We have incurred significant losses since our inception. As of December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $681.8 million. 
Most of our products in development will require extensive additional development, including preclinical testing and human studies, as
well as regulatory approvals, before they can be marketed. We cannot predict if or when any of the products we are developing or those being developed with our partners will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons why we or our
collaborative partners may fail in our efforts to develop our potential products, including the possibility that: preclinical testing or human studies may show that our potential 
  20 


Table of Contents

products are ineffective or cause harmful side effects; the products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign authorities in a timely manner, or at all; the
products, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; the products, if approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our products, which could
adversely affect their commercial success; or the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our partners from marketing the products.  Any product development failures for these or other reasons, whether with our products or our partners’ products, may reduce our expected revenues, profits, and stock price. 
We may not be able to hire and/or retain key employees.  If we are unable to hire and/or retain key employees, we may not have sufficient resources to successfully manage our assets or our business, and we may not be able to perform our obligations under
various contracts and commitments. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain all of our key management and scientific personnel. If we fail to retain such key employees, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of our
mergers. Either of these could have substantial negative impacts on our business and our stock price.  If plaintiffs bring product
liability lawsuits against us or our partners, we or our partners may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our approved products and product candidates, and we may be subject to other liabilities related to
the sale of our prior commercial product lines.  We and our partners face an inherent risk of product liability as a
result of the clinical testing of our product candidates in clinical trials and face an even greater risk for commercialized products. Although we are not currently a party to product liability litigation, if we are sued, we may be held liable if
any product or product candidate we develop causes injury or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing or sale. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in decreased demand for any
product candidates or products that we may develop, injury to our reputation, discontinuation of clinical trials, costs to defend litigation, substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients, loss of revenue and the inability
to commercialize any products that we develop. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials up to a $5.0 million annual limit. We intend to expand product liability insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial
products if we obtain marketing approval for any products that we may develop. However, this insurance may be prohibitively expensive, or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an
acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or delay the commercialization of our product candidates. If we are sued for any injury caused by our product candidates or any future products, our
liability could exceed our total assets.  In addition, we agreed to indemnify Eisai and King under certain circumstances
pursuant to the asset purchase agreements we entered into with Eisai and King in connection with the sale of our prior commercial product lines. Some of our indemnification obligations still remain and our potential liability in certain
circumstances is not limited to specific dollar amounts. We cannot predict the liabilities that may arise as a result of these matters. Any claims related to our indemnification obligations to King or Eisai could materially and adversely
affect our financial condition. In addition, King assumed our obligation to make payments to Organon based on net sales of
AVINZA (the fair value of which was $21.5 million as of December 31, 2011). We remain liable to Organon in the event King defaults on this obligation. Any requirement to pay a material amount to Organon, could adversely affect our
business and the price of our securities. 
  21 


Table of Contents
The sale of our prior commercial product lines does not relieve us of exposure to product
liability risks on products we sold prior to divesting these product lines. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us may not be insured and could result in payment of significant amounts of money and divert
management’s attention from running our business.  If our partners do not reach the market with our alliance products before our
competitors offer products for the same or similar uses, or if our partners are not effective in marketing our alliance products, our revenues from product sales, if any, will be reduced. 
We face intense competition in our development activities. Our competitors might succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for competitive
products more rapidly than our partners can for our products. In addition, competitors might develop technologies and products that are less expensive and perceived to be safer or more effective than those being developed by us or our partners,
which could impair our product development and render our technology obsolete.  We use hazardous materials, which may expose us to
significant liability.  In connection with our research and development activities, we handle hazardous materials,
chemicals and various radioactive compounds. To properly dispose of these hazardous materials in compliance with environmental regulations, we are required to contract with third parties. We believe that we carry reasonably adequate insurance for
toxic tort claims. However, we cannot eliminate the risk or predict the exposure of accidental contamination or injury from the handling and disposing of hazardous materials, whether by us or our third-party contractors. Any accident in the handling
and disposing of hazardous materials may expose us to significant liability.  Our shareholder rights plan and charter documents may
hinder or prevent change of control transactions.  Our shareholder rights plan and provisions contained in our
certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our ownership. In addition, our Board of Directors may issue shares of preferred stock without any further action by the stockholders.
Such restrictions and issuances may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our ownership. If changes in our ownership are discouraged, delayed or prevented, it would be more difficult for our current Board of Directors to be removed
and replaced, even if you or our other stockholders believe that such actions are in the best interests of us and our stockholders.  We
may lose some or all of the value of some of our short-term investments.  We engage one or more third parties to manage
some of our cash consistent with an investment policy that allows a range of investments and maturities. The investments are intended to maintain safety of principal while providing liquidity adequate to meet projected cash
requirements. Risks of principal loss are to be minimized through diversified short and medium term investments of high quality, but the investments are not in every case guaranteed or fully insured. As a result of changes in the credit
market, one of our short-term investments in commercial paper was in default. As a result, we were unable to recoup all of our investment in the commercial paper. In addition, from time to time we may suffer other losses on our short-term investment
portfolio.  We may require additional funds to run our business and may be required to raise these funds on terms which are not
favorable to us or which reduce our stock price.  We may need to complete additional equity or debt financings to fund
our operations. Our inability to obtain additional financing could adversely affect our business. Financings may not be available at all or on terms favorable to us. In addition, these financings, if completed, may not meet our capital needs and
could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. 
  22 


Table of Contents
In October 2011, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) for the issuance and sale of up to $30 million of equity or other securities, proceeds from which will be used for general corporate purposes. The Form S-3 provides additional financial flexibility for the
Company to sell shares as needed at any time. To date, no securities have been issued under this registration statement.  If
adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or drug development programs. We may also be required to liquidate our business or file for bankruptcy protection.
Alternatively, we may be forced to attempt to continue development by entering into arrangements with collaborative partners or others that require us to relinquish some or all of our rights to technologies or drug candidates that we would not
otherwise relinquish.  Our drug development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could hurt our operational
and financial condition.  Our drug development programs require substantial additional capital to successfully complete
them, arising from costs to: conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and establish and develop quality control, regulatory, marketing, sales and
administrative capabilities to support these programs.  Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors,
including: the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and human studies; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals;
the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; our ability to establish additional collaborations; changes in our existing collaborations; the
cost of manufacturing scale-up; and the effectiveness of our commercialization activities.  We expect our research and
development expenditures over the next three years to continue to be significant. However, we base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include regulatory approvals, the timing of events
outside our direct control such as product launches by partners and the success of such product launches, negotiations with potential strategic partners, possible sale of assets or other transactions and other factors. Any of these uncertain events
can significantly change our cash requirements.  While we expect to fund our research and development activities from cash
generated from royalties and royalties and milestones from our partners in various past and future collaborations to the extent possible, if we are unable to do so, we may need to complete additional equity or debt financings or seek other external
means of financing. These financings could depress our stock price. If additional funds are required to support our operations and we are unable to obtain them on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or
commercialization of our products, to sell some or all of our technology or assets or to merge with another entity.  Our results of
operations and liquidity needs could be materially negatively affected by market fluctuations and economic downturn. 
Our results of operations could be materially negatively affected by economic conditions generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around
the world. Continuing concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and
diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic recession and fears of a
possible depression. Domestic and international equity markets continue to experience heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the 
  23 


Table of Contents

continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us. In the event of a continuing market downturn, our results of operations could be adversely affected by those factors in many ways,
including making it more difficult for us to raise funds if necessary, and our stock price may further decline.  Our
investment securities consist primarily of money market funds, corporate debt obligations and U.S. government agency securities. We do not have any auction rate securities. Recently, there has been concern in the credit markets regarding the value
of a variety of mortgage-backed securities and the resultant effects on various securities markets. We cannot provide assurance that our investments are not subject to adverse changes in market value. If our investments experience adverse changes in
market value, we may have less capital to fund our operations.  Our stock price has been volatile and could experience a sudden decline
in value.  Our common stock has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations and may continue to experience
volatility in the future. As a result, you may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at the latest market price if trading in our stock is not active or the volume is low. In November 2010, we effected a 1-for-6 reverse stock split. We believe
the reverse stock split will have the effect of increasing the per share trading price of our common stock. Many factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to, the following factors:
results of or delays in our preclinical studies and clinical trials; the success of our collaboration agreements; publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by us or others; announcements of
technological innovations or new commercial products by us or others; developments in patent or other proprietary rights by us or others; comments or opinions by securities analysts or major stockholders; future sales of our common stock by existing
stockholders; regulatory developments or changes in regulatory guidance; litigation or threats of litigation; economic and other external factors or other disaster or crises; the departure of any of our officers, directors or key employees;
period-to-period fluctuations in financial results; and limited daily trading volume.  The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, or FINRA, (formerly the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.) and the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, have adopted certain new rules. If we were unable to continue to comply with the new rules, we could be delisted
from trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, or Nasdaq, and thereafter trading in our common stock, if any, would be conducted through the over-the-counter market or on the Electronic Bulletin Board of FINRA. As a consequence of such delisting, an
investor would likely find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain quotations as to the price of, our common stock. Delisting of our common stock could also result in lower prices per share of our common stock than would otherwise prevail.
 Any future material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting could harm stockholder and business
confidence on our financial reporting, our ability to obtain financing and other aspects of our business.  As described
in Item 9, we identified a material weakness as a result of improper accounting for significant non-routine transactions. Management has determined that the material weakness was a result of inadequate staffing. Since the transaction date
which resulted in this material weakness, we have added a corporate controller to our finance and accounting staff. While we had processes to identify and apply accounting standards to complex transactions, we enhanced these processes with the
addition of a resource with the ability to research and understand the nuances of complex accounting standards. Given this material weakness, management determined that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting.
The existence of one or more material weakness or significant deficiency could result in future errors in our consolidated financial statements. Substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail
to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we cannot produce reliable
financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could 
  24 


Table of Contents

lose confidence in our reported financial information, or the market price of our stock could decline significantly. In addition, our ability to obtain additional financing to operate and expand
our business, or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, could be materially and adversely affected, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition and the market value of our securities.
Moreover, our reputation with customers, lenders, investors, securities analysts and others may be adversely affected.  Impairment
charges pertaining to goodwill, identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets from our mergers could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock. 
The total purchase price pertaining to our mergers with Pharmacopeia, Neurogen, Metabasis and CyDex have been allocated to net tangible
assets, identifiable intangible assets, in process research and development and goodwill. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets or other long-lived assets become impaired, we will be required to incur material charges
relating to the impairment. Any impairment charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and the market value of our common stock.  We may undertake strategic acquisitions in the future and any difficulties from integrating such acquisitions could adversely affect our stock price, operating results and results of operations.
 We may acquire companies, businesses and products that complement or augment our existing business. We may not be able
to integrate any acquired business successfully or operate any acquired business profitably. Integrating any newly acquired business could be expensive and time-consuming. Integration efforts often take a significant amount of time, place a
significant strain on managerial, operational and financial resources and could prove to be more difficult or expensive than we predict. The diversion of our management’s attention and any delay or difficulties encountered in connection with
any future acquisitions we may consummate could result in the disruption of our on-going business or inconsistencies in standards and controls that could negatively affect our ability to maintain third-party relationships. Moreover, we may need to
raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing, or issue additional shares, to acquire any businesses or products, which may result in dilution for stockholders or the incurrence of indebtedness. 
As part of our efforts to acquire companies, business or product candidates or to enter into other significant transactions, we conduct
business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks involved in the transaction. Despite our efforts, we ultimately may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks and, as a result,
might not realize the intended advantages of the transaction. If we fail to realize the expected benefits from acquisitions we may consummate in the future, whether as a result of unidentified risks, integration difficulties, regulatory setbacks and
other events, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we acquire product candidates, we will also need to make certain assumptions about, among other things, development costs, the likelihood of
receiving regulatory approval and the market for such product candidates. Our assumptions may prove to be incorrect, which could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. 
In addition, we will likely experience significant charges to earnings in connection with our efforts, if any, to consummate
acquisitions. For transactions that are ultimately not consummated, these charges may include fees and expenses for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and other advisors in connection with our efforts. Even if our efforts are successful, we
may incur, as part of a transaction, substantial charges for closure costs associated with elimination of duplicate operations and facilities and acquired IPR&D charges. In either case, the incurrence of these charges could adversely affect our
results of operations for particular quarterly or annual periods.  Our CyDex facilities are located in a tornado zone, and the
occurrence of a tornado or other catastrophic disaster could damage our facilities and equipment, which could cause us to curtail or cease local operations.  Our CyDex facilities are located outside of Kansas City, Kansas, which is in a tornado zone. We are therefore vulnerable to damage from tornados. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of
disasters, such as 
  25 


Table of Contents

power loss, fire, floods and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. We are insured against up to $2.6 million in
damages resulting from natural disasters, including tornados. We currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions, and we do not plan to purchase additional
insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business, financial condition and prospects. 
 


Item 1B.
Unresolved Staff Comments 
None.   


Item 2.
Properties  We currently
occupy approximately 9,000 square feet of office facilities in San Diego, California leased through June 2012. We entered into a new lease for a period of 84 months commencing July 1, 2012, for premises consisting of approximately 16,500 square
feet of office and laboratory space located in San Diego to serve as our new corporate headquarters. We believe this facility is adequate to meet our space requirements for the foreseeable future. 
We lease approximately 1,500 square feet of laboratory space located at the Bioscience and Technology Business Center in Lawrence, Kansas
leased through December 31, 2014.  We lease approximately 99,000 square feet in three facilities in Cranbury, New Jersey
under leases that expire in 2016. We fully vacated these facilities in September 2010.  We also lease a 52,800 square foot
facility in San Diego that is leased through July 2015. In January 2008, we began subleasing the 52,800 square foot facility under a sublease agreement through July 2015. We fully vacated this facility in February 2008. 
When we acquired Neurogen Corporation in December 2009, they were conducting operations in laboratory and administrative facilities on a
single site located in Branford, Connecticut. The total facilities, which were owned by Neurogen comprised approximately 142,000 square feet, of which approximately 21,000 square feet was leased by another company month to month. On February 2,
2010, we sold the facilities and the surrounding land for approximately $3.5 million in cash, less expenses.   


Item 3.
Legal Proceedings  From
time to time we are subject to various lawsuits and claims with respect to matters arising out of the normal course of our business. Due to the uncertainty of the ultimate outcome of these matters, the impact on future financial results is not
subject to reasonable estimates.   


Item 4.
Mine Safety Disclosures 
Not applicable. 
  26 


Table of Contents
PART II 
 


Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
Market Information  Our
common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market (formerly NASDAQ National Market) under the symbol “LGND”. These numbers give affect to the 1-for-6 reverse split effected on November 19, 2010. 
The following table sets forth the high and low intraday sales prices for our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market for the periods
indicated:   












 
  
Price Range
 

 
  
High
 
  
Low
 

 Year Ended December 31, 2011:
  



  




 1st Quarter
  
$
11.10
  
  
$
8.64
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
12.06
  
  
 
9.39
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
16.24
  
  
 
10.16
  

 4th Quarter
  
 
15.91
  
  
 
10.50
  





 Year Ended December 31, 2010:
  



  




 1st Quarter
  
$
13.80
  
  
$
9.30
  

 2nd Quarter
  
 
11.64
  
  
 
8.22
  

 3rd Quarter
  
 
10.32
  
  
 
8.28
  

 4th Quarter
  
 
14.80
  
  
 
8.14
  
 As of February 1, 2012, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was
$12.81.  Holders  As of February 1, 2012, there were approximately 1,465 holders of record of the common stock. 
  27 


Table of Contents
Performance Graph 
The graph below shows the five-year cumulative total stockholder return assuming the investment of $100 and the
reinvestment of dividends (a one-time dividend of $2.50 was declared on the common stock in April 2007) and is based on the returns of the component companies weighted monthly according to their market capitalizations. The graph compares total
stockholder returns of our common stock, of all companies traded on the NASDAQ Stock market, as represented by the NASDAQ
Composite® Index, and of the NASDAQ Biotechnology Stock Index, as prepared by The NASDAQ Stock Market Inc. The
NASDAQ Biotechnology Stock Index tracks approximately 168 domestic biotechnology stocks.  The stockholder return shown on the
graph below is not necessarily indicative of future performance and we will not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns.   


  




























 
  
12/31/06
 
 
12/31/07
 
 
12/31/08
 
 
12/31/09
 
 
12/31/10
 
 
12/31/11
 

 Ligand
  
 
100
% 
 
 
60
% 
 
 
34
% 
 
 
27
% 
 
 
19
% 
 
 
25
% 

 NASDAQ Market (U.S. Companies) Index
  
 
100
% 
 
 
111
% 
 
 
66
% 
 
 
97
% 
 
 
114
% 
 
 
113
% 

 NASDAQ Biotechnology Stocks
  
 
100
% 
 
 
105
% 
 
 
92
% 
 
 
106
% 
 
 
123
% 
 
 
137
% 

  28 


Table of Contents


Item 6.
Selected Consolidated Financial Data  The following selected historical consolidated financial and other data are qualified by reference to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the related notes
thereto appearing elsewhere herein and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our selected statement of operations data set forth below for each of the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007 and the balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011, 2010, 2009, 2008, and 2007 are derived from our consolidated financial statements. 
 
























 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
(in thousands, except share data)
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 Consolidated Statement of Operations Data:
 



 



 



 



 




 Royalties
 
$
9,213
  
 
$
7,279
  
 
$
8,334
  
 
$
20,305
  
 
$
11,409
  

 Material sales
 
 
12,123
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Collaborative research and development and other revenues
 
 
8,701
  
 
 
16,259
  
 
 
30,606
  
 
 
7,000
  
 
 
1,485
  

 Cost of material sales
 
 
4,909
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Research and development expenses
 
 
10,291
  
 
 
22,067
  
 
 
39,870
  
 
 
30,770
  
 
 
44,623
  

 General and administrative expenses
 
 
14,977
  
 
 
12,829
  
 
 
15,211
  
 
 
23,785
  
 
 
30,410
  

 Lease exit and termination costs
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
16,894
  
 
 
15,235
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Write-off of acquired in-process research and development
 
 
2,282
  
 
 
2,754
  
 
 
442
  
 
 
72,000
  
 
 
—  
  

 Accretion of deferred gain on sale leaseback
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
21,851
  
 
 
1,964
  
 
 
1,964
  

 Loss from operations
 
 
(698
) 
 
 
(29,304
) 
 
 
(9,967
) 
 
 
(97,286
) 
 
 
(60,175
) 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
10,173
  
 
 
(12,786
) 
 
 
(8,337
) 
 
 
(97,460
) 
 
 
(34,759
) 

 Discontinued operations (1)
 
 
3
  
 
 
2,413
  
 
 
6,389
  
 
 
(654
) 
 
 
316,447
  

 Net income (loss)
 
 
10,176
  
 
 
(10,373
) 
 
 
(1,948
) 
 
 
(98,114
) 
 
 
281,688
  

 Basic per share amounts:
 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
0.52
  
 
($
0.65
) 
 
($
0.44
) 
 
($
6.12
) 
 
($
2.15
) 

 Discontinued operations (1)
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.12
  
 
 
0.34
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
19.62
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
0.52
  
 
($
0.53
) 
 
($
0.10
) 
 
($
6.16
) 
 
$
17.47
  

 Weighted average number of common shares
 
 
19,655,632
  
 
 
19,613,201
  
 
 
18,862,751
  
 
 
15,917,570
  
 
 
16,124,731
  

 Diluted per share amounts:
 



 



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
0.52
  
 
($
0.65
) 
 
($
0.44
) 
 
($
6.12
) 
 
($
2.12
) 

 Discontinued operations (1)
 
 
0
  
 
 
0.12
  
 
 
0.34
  
 
 
(0.04
) 
 
 
19.34
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
0.52
  
 
($
0.53
) 
 
($
0.10
) 
 
($
6.16
) 
 
$
17.22
  

 Weighted average number of common shares
 
 
19,713,320
  
 
 
19,613,201
  
 
 
18,862,751
  
 
 
15,917,570
  
 
 
16,354,121
  

  29 


Table of Contents
 
























 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 
 
2008
 
 
2007
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:
  



 



 



 



 




 Cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash and investments
  
$
18,382
  
 
$
24,038
  
 
$
54,694
  
 
$
82,012
  
 
$
95,819
  

 Working capital (2)
  
 
(11,413
) 
 
 
3,531
  
 
 
15,994
  
 
 
23,315
  
 
 
58,975
  

 Total assets
  
 
122,350
  
 
 
75,559
  
 
 
141,807
  
 
 
171,448
  
 
 
173,278
  

 Current portion of deferred revenue, net
  
 
1,240
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
4,989
  
 
 
10,301
  
 
 
—  
  

 Current portion of deferred gain
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
1,964
  
 
 
1,964
  

 Long-term obligations (excludes long-term portions of deferred revenue, net and deferred gain)
  
 
101,894
  
 
 
36,030
  
 
 
72,350
  
 
 
58,743
  
 
 
53,048
  

 Long-term portion of deferred revenue, net
  
 
3,466
  
 
 
2,546
  
 
 
3,495
  
 
 
16,819
  
 
 
2,546
  

 Long-term portion of deferred gain
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
23,292
  
 
 
25,256
  

 Common stock subject to conditional redemption
  
 
8,344
  
 
 
8,344
  
 
 
8,344
  
 
 
12,345
  
 
 
12,345
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(681,771
) 
 
 
(691,947
) 
 
 
(681,574
) 
 
 
(679,626
) 
 
 
(581,512
) 

 Total stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  
 
8,646
  
 
 
(4,849
) 
 
 
3,744
  
 
 
(10,365
) 
 
 
29,115
  
    


(1)
We sold our Oncology Product Line (“Oncology”) on October 25, 2006 and our AVINZA Product Line (“AVINZA”) on February 26, 2007. The
operating results for Oncology and AVINZA have been presented in our consolidated statements of operations as “Discontinued Operations.” 


(2)
Working capital includes deferred product revenue recorded under the sell-through revenue recognition method. 
  30 


Table of Contents


Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
Caution: This discussion and analysis may contain predictions, estimates and other forward-looking statements that involve a
number of risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” This outlook represents our current judgment on the future direction of our business. These statements include those related to our CAPTISOL
related revenue, our AVINZA, PROMACTA and other product royalty revenues, product returns, and product development. Actual events or results may differ materially from our expectations. For example, there can be no assurance that our revenues or
expenses will meet any expectations or follow any trend(s), that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be able to enter into any strategic partnerships or other transactions. We cannot assure you that we will receive expected
AVINZA, PROMACTA, CAPTISOL and other product revenues to support our ongoing business or that our internal or partnered pipeline products will progress in their development, gain marketing approval or achieve success in the market.
In addition, ongoing or future arbitration, or litigation or disputes with third parties may have a material adverse effect on us. Such risks and uncertainties, and others, could cause actual results to differ materially from any future
performance suggested. We undertake no obligation to release publicly the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this annual report. This caution is made under the
safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Our trademarks, trade
names and service marks referenced herein include Ligand. Each other trademark, trade name or service mark appearing in this annual report belongs to its owner.  References to “Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated”, “Ligand”, the “Company”, “we” or “our” include our wholly owned subsidiaries—Ligand JVR,
Allergan Ligand Retinoid Therapeutics, Seragen, Inc., or Seragen; Pharmacopeia, LLC; Neurogen Corporation, CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Metabasis Therapeutics, and Nexus Equity VI LLC, or Nexus. 
Overview  We are a biotechnology company that operates with a business model focused on developing or acquiring revenue generating assets and coupling them to a lean corporate cost structure. Our goal is to create
a sustainably profitable business and generate meaningful value for our stockholders. Since a portion of our business model is based on the goal of partnering with other pharmaceutical companies to commercialize and market our assets, a significant
amount of our revenue is based largely on payments made to us by partners for royalties, milestones and license fees. We recognized the important role of the drug reformulation segment in the pharmaceutical industry and in 2011 added CAPTISOL® to our technology portfolio. CAPTISOL is a powerful formulation technology that has enabled five FDA approved
products, including Pfizer’s VFEND® IV and Baxter International’s Nexterone® and is currently being used in a number of clinical-stage partner programs. In comparison to our peers, we believe
we have assembled one of the largest and most diversified asset portfolios in the industry with the potential to generate significant revenue in the future. In addition, therapies in development address the unmet medical needs of patients for a
broad spectrum of diseases including hepatitis, muscle wasting, Alzheimer’s disease, dyslipidemia, diabetes, anemia, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis. We have established multiple alliances with the world’s leading
pharmaceutical companies including GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Pfizer, Baxter International, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Lundbeck Inc., Eli Lilly & Co., and The Medicines Company. 
In January 2011, we completed the acquisition of CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or CyDex. As a result, we gained revenue from four
currently marketed products, a large portfolio of partnered drug development programs, an internal pipeline of proprietary drugs, and the CAPTISOL drug formulation platform technology. CyDex is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Ligand. 
In July 2011, we executed a patent license agreement for the exclusive license to make, have made, import, use, sell or offer for sale
the compound associated with Fablyn. Fablyn is a selective estrogen receptor modulator product candidate that resulted from a collaboration between Pfizer and us formed to develop therapies for

  31 


Table of Contents

osteoporosis. In February 2009, Pfizer received approval from the European Commission for Fablyn tablets. In October 2011, we entered into a license agreement with Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for
Fablyn. Under the License Agreement, we granted Chiva an exclusive worldwide license, with sub-license rights, to our intellectual property rights related to Fablyn. Chiva is obligated to pay us a non-refundable license issuance fee of $4.0 million
on or before June 1, 2012, of which $2.5 million was received in 2011. We are also eligible to receive, under the License Agreement, both milestones and royalty payments on worldwide net sales of Fablyn. 
In October 2011, we entered into a License Agreement with privately-held SAGE Therapeutics, Inc. granting SAGE
an exclusive right to use CAPTISOL® in SAGE’s development and commercialization of therapeutic drugs
formulating certain allosteric receptor modulators with CAPTISOL against identified central nervous system disorders. Under the License Agreement, we will receive upfront and research support payments, and potentially can receive additional payments
if SAGE exercises certain product commercialization options. Upon commercialization, we could potentially receive milestone payments for CAPTISOL-enabled programs, plus tiered royalties on net sales for products that use the CAPTISOL technology. We
are also eligible to receive commercial revenue from the shipment of CAPTISOL to SAGE for clinical and commercial activities.  In December 2011, we entered into a License and Supply Agreement with Eli Lilly (“Lilly”) and Company. Under the License Agreement, we granted to Lilly an exclusive, nontransferable license to
such intellectual property rights that will enable Lilly to develop and potentially commercialize
CAPTISOL-enabled® intravenous oncology therapeutics. Additionally, Lilly paid us a non-refundable license
issuance fee of $1 million. We are also eligible to receive royalty payments on worldwide net sales of any products that are successfully commercialized.  Under the Supply Agreement, Lilly agreed to purchase from us its CAPTISOL requirements for the development of the compounds contemplated by the License Agreement, as well as any CAPTISOL required for any
product that is successfully commercialized.  In December 2011, we entered into a License and Supply
Agreement with Hospira, Inc. Under the Agreement, we granted a license in specified territories, with sub-license rights, to such intellectual property rights that will enable the manufacture and sale of certain finished drug products of which
CAPTISOL® is a component. The terms of the Agreement call for us to receive a non-refundable license fee of $0.5
million. In addition, we received a pre-payment of $2.5 million, to be applied as a credit toward the first $2.5 million of CAPTISOL supplied under the Agreement. In the event of a termination prior to us supplying $2.5 million of CAPTISOL, we will
refund the difference of the value of CAPTISOL supplied and the $2.5 million pre-payment. We are also eligible to receive milestone payments upon the occurrence of certain specified sales goals. 
In December 2011, our partner Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Onyx, announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, had
granted Standard Review designation to the New Drug Application, or NDA, for carfilzomib for the potential treatment of patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, date for completion of
review by the FDA of the NDA is July 27, 2012. Carfilzomib is also currently being evaluated in two Phase 3 clinical trials. Under our agreement with Onyx, we are entitled to milestones, royalties and revenue from CAPTISOL material sales.
 Metabasis Contingent Value Rights  In January 2010, we completed our acquisition of Metabasis. In addition to cash consideration, we issued four tradable Contingent Value Rights (“CVRs”), one CVR from each of four respective
series of CVRs, for each Metabasis share. The CVRs will entitle the holder to cash payments as frequently as every six months as cash is received by us from the sale or partnering of any of the Metabasis drug development programs, among other
triggering events. We have also committed to spend at least $7 million within 30 months and $8 million within 42 months, in new research and development funding on the Metabasis programs. Through December 31, 2011, we estimate that we have
spent approximately $5.1 million of the committed amount. 
  32 


Table of Contents
In January 2011, we entered into a strategic relationship with Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
to develop multiple assets and technology in China and potentially worldwide. Chiva was granted licenses to begin immediate development in China of two clinical-stage HepDirect programs, Pradefovir for hepatitis B and MB01733 for hepatocellular
carcinoma. Additionally, we granted Chiva a non-exclusive HepDirect technology license for the discovery, development and worldwide commercialization of new compounds in hepatitis B (HepB), hepatitis C (HepC) and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Under the terms of the agreement, we are entitled to milestones and royalties on potential sales. In addition, we are entitled to receive a portion of any sublicensing revenue generated from sublicensing of collaboration compounds to third parties
in a major world market. We received a $0.5 million license payment in March 2011, of which $0.1 million was remitted to CVR holders.  In August 2011, we entered into an amendment to the license agreement which required that the second $0.5 million licensing fee be paid in September 2011. In addition, the amendment increased royalty
rates which we may receive under the license agreement to 6% of net sales of products (other than Pradefovir) and 9% of net sales for Pradefovir. In addition, the amendment removed from the license agreement the provision that we could potentially
earn a 10% equity position in Chiva as a milestone payment. The amendment’s second $0.5 million licensing fee payment was received by us from Chiva in September 2011, of which $0.1 million was remitted to CVR holders. 
Results of Operations 
Total revenues for 2011 were $30.0 million, compared to $23.5 million in 2010 and $38.9 million in 2009. Our income from continuing
operations for 2011 was $10.2 million, or $0.52 per share, compared to losses from continuing operations of $12.8 million, or $0.65 per share in 2010 and $8.3 million, or $0.44 per share, in 2009. 
Royalty Revenue  Royalty
revenues were $9.2 million in 2011 compared to $7.3 million in 2010 and $8.3 million in 2009. The increase in royalty revenue of $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 is primarily due to an increase in PROMACTA sales. The
decrease in royalty revenue of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily due to lower AVINZA sales, partially offset by an increase in PROMACTA sales.  Collaborative Research and Development and Other Revenue  Collaborative
research and development and other revenues for 2011 were $8.7 million compared to $16.3 million in 2010 and $30.6 million in 2009. Collaborative research and development and other revenues include reimbursement for ongoing research activities,
earned milestones, and recognition of prior years’ up-front fees previously deferred.  A comparison of collaborative
research and development and other revenues is as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Collaborative research and development
  
$
601
  
  
$
7,734
  
  
$
23,316
  

 License fees
  
 
5,889
  
  
 
6,250
  
  
 
525
  

 Milestones and other
  
 
2,211
  
  
 
2,275
  
  
 
6,765
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
8,701
  
  
$
16,259
  
  
$
30,606
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Collaborative research and development. The decrease of $7.1 million for the year ended
December 31, 2011 is due to the termination of research collaboration agreements. The decrease of $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 is primarily due to the termination of our research collaboration agreements throughout
the year. 
  33 


Table of Contents
License fees. License fees in 2011 reflect $2.5 million for the license of Fablyn to
Chiva, $1.3 million related to a CAPTISOL platform license, and $2 million related to licenses for internally developed programs. License fees in 2010 reflect the licensing of several compounds upon the termination of research collaborations.
License fees in 2009 reflect licenses for internally developed programs.  Milestones and Other. Milestones and other
revenue in 2011 primarily reflect milestones earned from CAPTISOL related programs, as well as $1.2 million relating to the sale of future royalty rights which had previously been deferred. Milestones in 2010 reflect $2.3 million received from Roche
related to the initiation of a Phase I clinical trial under an agreement acquired from Metabasis. Milestones in 2009 reflect $4.0 million received from Merck in connection with lead identification and transferred programs, $1.3 million received from
GSK for lead identification and $1.5 million from Pfizer related to NDA filings.  Research and Development Expenses 
Research and development expenses were $10.3 million in 2011 compared to $22.1 million in 2010 and $39.9 million in 2009. The major
components of research and development expenses are as follows (in thousands):   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Research performed under collaboration agreements
  
$
0
  
  
$
8,670
  
  
$
21,194
  

 Internal research programs
  
 
8,741
  
  
 
10,877
  
  
 
12,963
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total research
  
$
8,741
  
  
$
19,547
  
  
$
34,157
  

 Development costs
  
 
1,550
  
  
 
2,520
  
  
 
5,713
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total research and development
  
$
10,291
  
  
$
22,067
  
  
$
39,870
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The decrease in research and development expenses of $11.8 million for the year ended December 31,
2011 was primarily due to $8.7 million of costs associated with collaboration agreements that were terminated as well as $3.1 million of other costs associated with internal research programs. The decrease in research and development expenses of
$17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to $12.5 million of costs associated with collaboration agreements that were terminated, $3.2 million of costs associated with clinical trials and $1.8 million in reduced
headcount related and other costs associated with internal research programs.  As summarized in the table below, we are
developing several proprietary products for a variety of indications. These programs represent our future licensing opportunities to expand our partnered asset portfolio. 
 








 Program
  
 Disease/Indication
  
 Development Phase





Selective Androgen Receptor Modulators (SARMs) (agonists)
  
Muscle wasting and frailty
  
Phase I





 CAPTISOL-Enabled Melphalan I
  
Oncology
  
Phase II





 CAPTISOL-Enabled Topiramate IV
  
Epilepsy/Seizures
  
Preclinical





 Glucagon receptor antagonists
  
Diabetes
  
Preclinical





 IRAK4 inhibitor
  
Inflammation/Oncology
  
Research
 We do not provide forward-looking estimates of costs and time to complete our ongoing research and
development projects, as such estimates would involve a high degree of uncertainty. Uncertainties include our inability to predict the outcome of complex research, our inability to predict the results of clinical studies,

  34 


Table of Contents

regulatory requirements placed upon us by regulatory authorities such as the FDA and EMEA, our inability to predict the decisions of our collaborative partners, our ability to fund research and
development programs, competition from other entities of which we may become aware of in future periods, predictions of market potential from products that may be derived from our research and development efforts, and our ability to recruit and
retain personnel or third-party research organizations with the necessary knowledge and skills to perform certain research. Refer to “Item 1A. Risks Factors” for additional discussion of the uncertainties surrounding our research and
development initiatives.  General and Administrative Expenses  General and administrative expenses were $15.0 million for 2011, compared to $12.8 million for 2010 and $15.2 million for 2009. The increase in general and administrative expenses in 2011 is primarily due
to costs to operate the CyDex business and an increase in non-cash stock based compensation expenses.  The decrease in general
and administrative expenses of $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to $0.9 million of lower headcount related costs as a result of staff reductions, $3.9 million of lower facilities costs as a result of our lease
termination in 2009 and $1.4 million of lower legal costs, partially offset by lower allocations to research and development of $3.5 million. 
Lease Exit and Termination Costs  In September 2010, we ceased use of our facility located in Cranbury, New Jersey. As a result, we recorded lease exit costs of $9.7 million for costs related to the difference between the remaining lease
obligations of the abandoned operating leases, which run through August 2016, and management’s estimate of potential future sublease income, discounted to present value. Actual future sublease income may differ materially from our estimate,
which would result in us recording additional expense or reductions in expense. In addition, we wrote-off approximately $5.4 million of property and equipment related to the facility closure. We also recorded approximately $1.8 million of severance
related costs.  In August 2009, we entered into a lease termination agreement for our corporate facility in San Diego. Under
the terms of the agreement, we paid a termination fee of $14.3 million as follows: $4.5 million was paid upon signing, $4.5 million was paid in July 2010 and $5.3 million was paid in April 2011. As a result, during the year ended December 31,
2009, we recorded lease termination costs of $15.2 million, which includes the net present value of the lease termination payments of $14.3 million and $0.9 million of other costs associated with the lease termination. 
Write-off of in-process research and development  In 2011, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.1 million for the write-off of intellectual property and interests in future milestones and royalties for MEDI-528, an IL-9 antibody program by
AstraZeneca’s subsidiary, MedImmune. The asset was impaired upon receipt of notice from MedImmune that it was exercising its right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement. 
Additionally, in 2011, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.2 million for the write-off of interests in future milestones for
TRPV1, a collaborative research and licensing program between us and Merck, related to the physiology, pharmacology, chemistry and potential therapeutic applications and potential clinical utilities related to Vanilloid Receptors, subtype 1. The
asset was impaired upon receipt of notice from Merck in October 2011 that it was exercising its right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement.  In November 2010, Roche notified us that they were exercising their right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement with our subsidiary, Metabasis. As a result, we reviewed the carrying amount
of the intangible asset related to this agreement. Based on our analysis of available information, we determined that the asset 
  35 


Table of Contents

would not generate any future cash flow. Therefore, we wrote-off the $2.8 million of acquired in-process research and development associated with the agreement during the year ended
December 31, 2010.  As a result of adjustments to our purchase price allocation related to our acquisition of
Pharmacopeia in December 2008, we wrote-off an additional $0.4 million of acquired in-process research and development during the year ended December 31, 2009.  Accretion of Deferred Gain on Sale Leaseback  In October 2006, we entered
into an agreement for the sale of our real property located in San Diego, California for a purchase price of $47.6 million. This property, with a net book value of $14.5 million, included one building totaling approximately 82,500 square feet, the
land on which the building is situated, and two adjacent vacant lots. As part of the sale transaction, we agreed to lease back the building for a period of 15 years.  We recognized an immediate pre-tax gain on the sale transaction of $3.1 million in 2006 and deferred a gain of $29.5 million on the sale of the building. The deferred gain was being recognized as an
offset to operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 15 year term of the lease at a rate of approximately $2.0 million per year.  In August 2009, we entered into a lease termination agreement for this building. As a result, we recognized an additional $20.4 million of accretion of deferred gain during the quarter ended
September 30, 2009, and recognized the remaining balance of the deferred gain of $3.1 million through the term of our new building lease, which expired in December 2011. The amount of the deferred gain recognized for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.7 million, $1.7 million and $21.9 million, respectively.  Interest Income 
Interest income was $42,000 for 2011, compared to $0.4 million for 2010 and $0.6 million for 2009. The decreases from 2011 to 2010 and
from 2010 to 2009 are due to lower invested balances and lower interest rates.  Change in Liability for Contingent Value Rights
 We recorded an increase in the liability for CVRs of $0.4 million for 2011, compared to a decrease of $9.1 million for
2010. The change relates to our liability for amounts potentially due to holders of CVRs associated with our Metabasis and CyDex acquisitions. The Metabasis CVR liability is marked-to-market at each reporting period based upon the quoted market
prices of the underlying CVR. The CyDex CVR liability is marked-to-market at each reporting period based upon a discounted cash flow analysis. The change in fair value is recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. The carrying amount of
the liability may fluctuate significantly based upon quoted market prices and actual amounts paid under the CVR agreements may be materially different than the carrying amount of the liability. 
Other, net  We recorded
other income of $0.7 million for 2011, compared to other income of $4.4 million for 2010 and other expense of $0.2 million for 2009. Other income for 2011 primarily relates to income related to the gain on the sale of property and equipment. Other
income for 2010 primarily relates to grants totaling $2.0 million in response to applications submitted for qualified investments in a qualifying therapeutic discovery project under section 48D of the Internal Revenue Code, $1.5 million in realized
gains on investments, $0.5 million reduction in warrant liability and $0.4 million of gain on the sale of property and equipment. Other expense for 2009 relates to losses from abandoning property and equipment. 
  36 


Table of Contents
Income Taxes  During 2011, we recorded an income tax benefit of $13.1 million related to the release of a portion of our valuation allowance against deferred tax assets which can be used to offset deferred tax
liabilities recorded in connection with our acquisition of CyDex in January 2011.  During 2010, we recorded an income tax
benefit of $2.6 million related to the reversal of estimated interest for a proposed substantial underpayment of tax in fiscal 2007. During 2009, the IRS issued to us a Notice of Proposed Adjustment, or NOPA, seeking an increase to our taxable
income for the 2007 fiscal year of $71.5 million and a $4.1 million penalty for substantial underpayment of tax in fiscal 2007. We recorded a liability for uncertain tax positions of $25.1 million related to the income tax effect of the NOPA and
$3.0 million related to estimated interest due on the proposed underpayment of tax. We also recorded deferred income tax assets of $25.1 million associated with the ability to carry back losses from 2008 and 2009 to offset the NOPA. In addition, we
recorded an income tax receivable of $4.5 million associated with changes in income tax law in relation to prior AMT taxes paid on carry back periods. In November 2010, the IRS granted us an extension of time to make a closing-of-the-books election
with respect to an ownership change, within the meaning of section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, for the 2007 tax year. We filed an amended 2007 federal tax return in the fourth quarter of 2010. In addition, in January 2011, we were notified by
the IRS that they had completed their examination resulting in no changes to the taxes for our 2007 tax year.  During 2009, we
recorded an income tax benefit of $1.5 million as a result of the NOPA discussed above. We recorded an income tax receivable of $4.5 million associated with changes in income tax law in relation to prior AMT taxes paid on carry back periods
partially offset by $3.0 million of interest for the proposed substantial underpayment of tax in fiscal 2007.  At
December 31, 2011, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards set to expire through 2031 of $456.0 million and $165.9 million of state net operating loss carryforwards. We also had $16.4 million of federal research and
development credit carryforwards, $1.2 million of which expired at the beginning of 2011, with the remainder expiring through 2027, leaving $15.2 million remaining going into 2012. We have $10.3 million of California and New Jersey research and
development credit carryforwards that have no expiration date.  Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Sections 382 and 383, use of
net operating loss and credit carryforwards may be limited if there were changes in ownership of more than 50%. As a result of ownership changes, utilization of our net operating losses and credits are subject to limitations under Internal Revenue
Code Sections 382 and 383.  Discontinued Operations  Oncology Product Line  In 2006, we sold our Oncology product line to Eisai,
including, among other things, all related inventory, equipment, records and intellectual property, and assumed certain liabilities. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized pre-tax gains of $3,000, $0.2 million, and
$1.0 million, respectively, due to subsequent changes in certain estimates of assets and liabilities recorded as of the sale date.  AVINZA Product Line  In 2007, we sold AVINZA purchase agreement pursuant to
King, including, among other things, all AVINZA inventory, records and related intellectual property, and assume certain liabilities.  For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recognized pre-tax gains of $0, $2.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively, due to subsequent changes in certain estimates of assets and
liabilities recorded as of the sale date. 
  37 


Table of Contents
Liquidity and Capital Resources 
We have financed our operations through offerings of our equity securities, borrowings from long-term debt, issuance of convertible notes,
product sales and the subsequent sales of our commercial assets, royalties, collaborative research and development and other revenues, capital and operating lease transactions. 
We have incurred significant losses since inception. At December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was $681.8
million and we had negative working capital of $11.4 million. We believe that cash flows from operations will improve due to consistent CAPTISOL® sales, an increase in royalty revenues driven primarily from continued increases in PROMACTA sales, as well as anticipated new license and milestone revenues. In the
event revenues and operating cash flows are not meeting expectations, management plans to reduce discretionary expenses. However, it is possible that we may be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that additional
financing will be available on terms acceptable to management, or at all. We believe our available cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as well as our current and future royalty, license and milestone revenues will be sufficient to
satisfy our anticipated operating and capital requirements, through at least the next twelve months. Our future operating and capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: the pace of scientific progress in our
research and development programs; the potential success of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and clinical trials; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the costs involved in preparing, filing,
prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; the amount of royalties on sales of the commercial products of our partners; the efforts of our collaborative partners; obligations under our
operating lease agreements; and the capital requirements of any companies we acquire, including Pharmacopeia, Inc. (“Pharmacopeia”), Neurogen Corporation (“Neurogen”), Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc. (“Metabasis”) and
CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“CyDex”). Our ability to achieve our operational targets is dependent upon our ability to further implement our business plan and generate sufficient operating cash flow. 
In August 2009, we entered into a lease termination agreement for our corporate facility in San Diego. Under the terms of the agreement,
we paid a termination fee of $14.3 million as follows: $4.5 million was paid upon signing, $4.5 million was paid in July 2010 and $5.3 million was paid in April 2011. In addition, we entered into a new lease for a period of 27 months commencing
October 2009, for premises consisting of office and lab space located in San Diego to serve as our new corporate headquarters. 
In January 2011, we used $12.0 million of our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the acquisition of CyDex. In
connection with the acquisition, we entered into a $20 million Loan and Security Agreement, or the Loan Agreement, with Oxford Financial Group. Under the terms of the Loan Agreement, we made interest only payments for one year at a fixed rate of
8.64%, with an option to extend the interest only payments for an additional year, which we exercised on January 18, 2012. The interest only payments will continue through March 1, 2013. This election did not change the August 1, 2014
maturity date of the term loan.  In March 2011, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement, or the Commercial Loan,
with our commercial bank, Square 1 Bank, or Square 1. The Commercial Loan established a cash-collateralized revolving line of credit facility under which Square 1 agreed to loan up to $5.0 million to us. We immediately borrowed the full $5.0
million.  In April 2011, we entered into an amended Loan and Security Agreement (the “Square 1 Amended Loan”)
with Square 1. The Square 1 Amended Loan increased a cash-collateralized revolving line of credit facility by $5.0 million under which Square 1 agreed to loan up to $10.0 million to the Company. We immediately borrowed the additional $5.0 million.
All outstanding amounts under the Agreement bear interest at a floating rate equal to 200 basis points above the prime rate. Interest is payable on a monthly basis. The maturity date of the revolving line of credit facility is March 29, 2012.
 In October 2011, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
for the issuance and sale of up to $30 million of equity or other securities, proceeds from 
  38 


Table of Contents

which will be used for general corporate purposes. The Form S-3 provides additional financial flexibility for the Company to sell shares or other securities as needed at any time. To date, no
securities have been issued under this registration statement.  In January 2012, we entered into a Fourth Amendment to the
Loan and Security Agreement with Oxford Financial Group. The Fourth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement increased the Loan and Security Agreement’s secured term loan credit facility from $20 million to up to $30 million; we immediately
borrowed $7.5 million of the additionally-authorized $10 million against two Secured Promissory Notes. We have the right until April 30, 2012 to elect to borrow the remaining available $2.5 million. The additional $7.5 million loan bears
interest at (and the additional $2.5 million loan would bear interest at) a fixed rate equal to the greater of (i) 8.81% per year and (ii) the sum of (a) 8.34% plus (b) the 3-month LIBOR rate reported in The Wall Street
Journal three business days before the loan amounts are funded to us, which interest, along with amortized principal, is payable on a monthly basis. Amortization of the entire $27.5 million due to Oxford commences on March 1, 2013 and the
maturity date of the term loan is August 1, 2014, and the other material terms of the Loan and Security Agreement remain unchanged. Following the borrowing, we immediately paid down $4.5 million on our revolving credit facility. 
In connection with the acquisition of CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on January 24, 2011, we issued a series of Contingent Value Rights
(“CVR”). We paid the CVR holders $4.3 million in January 2012 and may be required to pay up to an additional $9.5 million upon achievement of certain milestones. In 2011, $0.9 million was paid to the CyDex Shareholders upon completion of a
licensing agreement with The Medicines Company for the CAPTISOL enabled Intravenous formulation of Clopidogrel. An additional $2 million was paid to the CyDex Shareholders upon acceptance by the FDA of the New Drug Application submitted by Onyx. In
addition, we will pay CyDex shareholders, for each respective year from 2011 through 2016, 20% of all CyDex-related revenue, but only to the extent that and beginning only when CyDex-related revenue for such year exceeds $15.0 million; plus an
additional 10% of all CyDex-related revenue recognized during such year, but only to the extent that and beginning only when aggregate CyDex-related revenue for such year exceeds $35.0 million. 
The CyDex CVR Agreement requires us to, in the event of a Default, deliver to an escrow agent the future cash payments described above,
and such amounts would then be delivered by the escrow agent to the CyDex shareholders if, as and when they would have by the CVR Agreement been required to be delivered by us. “Default” includes the following, subject to certain cure
rights: (a) we fail to pay to the Shareholders’ Account any amount as and when required under the CVR Agreement, (b) at any time we are obligated for more than $35.0 million of financial indebtedness (other than financial indebtedness
which is expressly subordinated to all obligations of Ligand under the CVR Agreement pursuant to a written subordination agreement signed by and reasonably acceptable to the Shareholders’ Representative), (c) at any time after
March 15, 2011 our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments is less than $10.0 million, or (d) we commit any material breach of the CVR Agreement. Pursuant to the CVR Agreement, the shareholders’ representative on behalf of
the former CyDex shareholders has recently filed a notice of objection with us regarding the calculation of payments due to the CyDex former shareholders for the first and second quarters of 2011. In addition, the shareholders’ representative
has claimed that we exceeded the $35 million financial indebtedness limitation contained in the CVR Agreement. We disagree with these claims and intends to work with the shareholders’ representative to resolve the claims. If we and the
shareholders’ representative fail to agree, the claims may be resolved through arbitration.  We are also required by the
CyDex CVR Agreement to dedicate at least five experienced full-time employee equivalents per year to the acquired business and to invest at least $1.5 million per year, inclusive of such employee expenses, in the acquired business, through 2015. For
2011, we estimate that we have exceeded our committed amount.  Based on management’s plans, including
increases in CAPTISOL® sales and royalty revenues, as well as anticipated new license revenue and expense
reductions, if necessary, we believe our currently available cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as well as our current and future royalty, license and milestone 
  39 


Table of Contents

revenues will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated operating and capital requirements, through at least the next twelve months. Our future operating and capital requirements will depend on
many factors, including, but not limited to: the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs; the magnitude of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and clinical trials; the time and costs involved in
obtaining regulatory approvals; the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; the amount of royalties on sales of our partners’ commercial
products; the efforts of our collaborative partners; obligations under our operating lease agreements and lease termination agreement; and the capital requirements of any companies we may acquire, including Neurogen, Metabasis and Cydex. We believe
that the actions presently being taken to generate sufficient operating cash flow provide the opportunity for us to continue as a going concern. While we believe in the viability of our strategy to generate sufficient operating cash flow and in our
ability to raise additional funds, there can be no assurances to that effect. Our ability to achieve our operational targets is dependent upon our ability to further implement our business plan and generate sufficient operating cash flow.
 Operating Activities  Operating activities used cash of $1.2 million in 2011, $27.1 million in 2010, and $33.8 million in 2009.  The use of cash in 2011 reflects net income of $10.2 million, adjusted by $5.4 million of non-cash items to reconcile the net income to net cash used in operations. These reconciling items primarily
reflect deferred income taxes of $13.1 million, accretion of deferred gain on sale leaseback transaction of $1.7 million and gain on asset write-offs of $0.5 million, partially offset by a non-cash change in estimated value of contingent value
rights of $1.3 million, write off of acquired in-process research and development of $2.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.8 million, and stock-based compensation of $3.4 million. The use of cash in 2011 is further impacted by changes in
operating assets and liabilities due primarily to an increase in accounts receivable of $3.9 million and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $11.6 million, partially offset by an increase in other current assets of $5.5
million, an increase in inventory of $1.1 million, a decrease in deferred revenue of $2.2 million, and a decrease in other liabilities of $0.9 million.  The use of cash in 2010 reflects a net loss of $10.4 million, adjusted by $2.4 million of gain from discontinued operations and $10.2 million of non-cash items to reconcile the net loss to net cash
used in operations. These reconciling items primarily reflect non-cash lease costs of $9.0 million, a write-off of acquired in-process research and development of $2.8 million, the recognition of $2.3 million of stock-based compensation
expense, depreciation of assets of $2.2 million and the write-off of assets of $5.3 million, partially offset by the change in estimated fair value of contingent value rights of $9.1 million, accretion of deferred gain on the sale leaseback of the
building of $1.7 million and gain on investments of $0.6 million. The use of cash in 2010 is further impacted by changes in operating assets and liabilities due primarily to decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $13.4 million, a
decrease in deferred revenue of $5.9 million, an increase in other current assets of $3.9 million, a decrease in other liabilities of $0.7 million and an increase in accounts receivable, net of $0.4 million. Net cash provided by operating activities
of discontinued operations was $0.2 million in 2010.  The use of cash in 2009 reflects a net loss of $1.9 million,
adjusted by $7.9 million of gain from discontinued operations and $4.0 million of non-cash items to reconcile the net loss to net cash used in operations. These reconciling items primarily reflect the accretion of deferred gain on the sale leaseback
of the building of $21.9 million, non-cash development milestone revenue of $0.9 million and gain on investments of $0.2 million, partially offset by non-cash lease costs of $9.8 million, a write-off of acquired in-process research and development
of $0.4 million, non-cash exit and restructuring costs of $0.3 million, the recognition of $3.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, depreciation of assets of $3.1 million, impairment and amortization of acquired intangible assets of
$1.5 million, and the write-off of assets of $0.5 million. The use of cash in 2009 is further impacted by changes in operating assets and liabilities due primarily to decreases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $11.0 million, a decrease
in deferred revenue of $14.3 million, a decrease in other liabilities of $2.3 million and an increase in accounts receivable, net of $0.6 million. These 
  40 


Table of Contents

increases were partially offset by decreases in other current assets of $1.1 million and the release of the restricted indemnity account of $10.3 million. Net cash used in operating activities of
discontinued operations was $3.2 million in 2009.  Investing Activities 
Investing activities used cash of $25.2 million in 2011, $14.5 million in 2010 and $24.8 million in 2009. 
Cash used by investing activities in 2011 primarily reflects cash used for the acquisition of CyDex of $32.0 million, payments made to
CyDex CVR holders of $2.9 million, and purchases of short term investments of $10.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of short-term investments of $19.3 million and proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $0.5 million.
 Cash provided by investing activities in 2010 primarily reflects the net sales of short-term investments of $18.5 million and
$0.6 million of proceeds from sale of property and equipment, partially offset by $4.1 million of cash paid for acquisitions. None of the cash provided by investing activities for 2010 related to discontinued operations. 
Cash provided by investing activities in 2009 primarily reflects the net sales of short-term investments of $15.0 million and $9.8
million of net cash acquired from our merger with Neurogen. None of the cash provided by investing activities for 2009 related to discontinued operations.  Financing Activities  Financing activities provided cash of $30.1 million
in 2011, and used cash of $0.2 million in 2010 and $3.7 million in 2009.  Cash used in financing activities in 2011 primarily
reflects $30.0 million of proceeds from the issuance of debt, partially offset by share repurchases of $0.1 million.  Cash
used in financing activities in 2010 primarily reflects payments under equipment financing obligations of $0.1 million and repurchases of common stock of $0.1 million. None of the cash used in financing activities for 2010 related to discontinued
operations.  Cash used in financing activities in 2009 primarily reflects payments under equipment financing obligations of
$0.5 million and the repayment of debt of $3.4 million related to an equipment line of credit acquired from Pharmacopeia that was paid off in January 2009, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $0.2 million. None of the
cash used in financing activities for 2009 related to discontinued operations.  Other 
In July 2007, we purchased $5.0 million of commercial paper issued by Golden Key Ltd. The investment was highly-rated and within our
investment policy at the time of purchase, but during the third quarter of 2007, large credit rating agencies downgraded the quality of this security. In addition, as a result of not meeting certain liquidity covenants, the assets of Golden Key Ltd.
were assigned to a trustee who established a committee of the largest senior credit holders to determine the next steps. Subsequently, Golden Key Ltd. defaulted on its obligation to settle the security on the stated maturity date of October 10,
2007. During 2010, the assets of Golden Key Ltd. were sold through an auction process and, as a result, the Company received a final cash distribution of approximately $2.9 million, of which $1.4 million was recognized as a gain. 
In connection with the acquisition of Pharmacopeia on December 23, 2008, Pharmacopeia security holders received a contingent value
right that entitled them to an aggregate cash payment of $15.0 million under certain circumstances. The contingent value right expired on December 31, 2011. 
  41 


Table of Contents
In connection with the acquisition of Neurogen Corporation on December 23, 2009,
Neurogen security holders received CVRs under four CVR agreements. The CVRs entitle Neurogen shareholders to cash payments upon the sale or licensing of certain assets and upon the achievement of a specified clinical milestone. At December 31,
2011 and 2010, the aggregate fair values of the Aplindore, VR1 and H3 CVR’s were $0.7 million and $0.7 million, respectively, and included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying balance sheets as management is unable to estimate the
timing of potential future payments.  In connection with the acquisition of Metabasis Therapeutics on January 27, 2010,
Metabasis security holders received CVRs under four CVR agreements. The CVRs entitle the holders to cash payments upon the sale or licensing of certain assets and upon the achievement of specified milestones. The fair value of the liability at
December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.1 million and $0, respectively.  In connection with the acquisition of CyDex
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. on January 24, 2011, we issued a series of Contingent Value Rights. We paid a CVR of $4.3 million in January 2012 and may be required to pay up to an additional $9.5 million upon achievement of certain milestones. In 2011,
$0.9 million was paid to the CyDex Shareholders upon completion of a licensing agreement with The Medicines Company for the CAPTISOL enabled Intravenous formulation of Clopidogrel. An additional $2 million was paid to the CyDex Shareholders upon
acceptance by the FDA of Onyx’s NDA. In addition, we will pay CyDex shareholders, for each respective year from 2011 through 2016, 20% of all CyDex-related revenue, but only to the extent that and beginning only when CyDex-related revenue for
such year exceed $15.0 million; plus an additional 10% of all CyDex-related revenue recognized during such year, but only to the extent that and beginning only when aggregate CyDex-related revenue for such year exceeds $35.0 million. The fair value
of the liability at December 31, 2011 was $16.5 million.  Leases and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
We lease our office and research facilities under operating lease arrangements with varying terms through November 2021. The agreements
provide for increases in annual rents based on changes in the Consumer Price Index or fixed percentage increases ranging from 3% to 7%. Commencing January 2008, we also sublease a portion of our facilities through July 2015. The sublease agreement
provides for a 3% increase in annual rents. We had no off-balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Contractual
Obligations  As of December 31, 2011, future minimum payments due under our contractual obligations are as follows (in
thousands):   
























 
  
Payments Due by Period
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Less than 1 year
 
  
1-3 years
 
  
3-5 years
 
  
More than 5years
 

 Operating lease obligations (1)
  
$
25,035
  
  
$
5,603
  
  
$
11,095
  
  
$
7,061
  
  
$
1,276
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total contractual obligations
  
$
25,035
  
  
$
5,603
  
  
$
11,095
  
  
$
7,061
  
  
$
1,276
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  


(1)
We lease an office and research facility under an operating lease arrangement through July 2015. Commencing January 2008, we sublet this facility through July 2015. The
sublease agreement provides for a 3% increase in annual rents. As of December 31, 2011, we expect to receive aggregate future minimum lease payments totaling $4.1 million (nondiscounted) over the duration of the sublease agreement as follows
and not included in the table above: less than one year, $1 million; one to three years, $2.3 million; three to five years, $0.8 million; and more than five years, $0. 
We outsource the production of CAPTISOL to Hovione, LLC. Under the terms of the supply agreement with Hovione, the Company has ongoing
minimum annual purchase commitments and is required to purchase a total of $15 million of CAPTISOL over the term of the supply agreement which expires in December 2019. 
  42 


Table of Contents

Through December 31, 2011, we have spent approximately $12.9 million towards that commitment. Either party may terminate the Agreement for the uncured material breach or bankruptcy of the
other party or an extended force majeure event. The Company may also terminate the supply agreement for extended supply interruption, regulatory action related to CAPTISOL or other specified events. 
Under the terms of our merger with Metabasis, we are committed to spend at least $7 million within 30 months following the close of the
transaction and $8.0 million within 42 months in new research and development funding on the Metabasis programs. Through December 31, 2011, we estimate that we have spent approximately $5.1 million of the committed amount. We are also required
under our CyDex CVR Agreement to invest at least $1.5 million per year, inclusive of employee expenses, in the acquired business, through 2015. Through December 31, 2011, we estimate that we have exceeded our committed amount. 
Critical Accounting Policies  Certain of our policies require the application of management judgment in making estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and disclosures made in
the accompanying notes. Those estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors deemed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. The use of judgment in determining such estimates and assumptions is
by nature, subject to a degree of uncertainty. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from the estimates made. Our critical accounting policies are as follows:  Revenue Recognition  Material sales revenue is recognized upon transfer of
title, which normally passes to the buyer upon shipment to the customer.  Royalties on sales of products commercialized by our
partners are recognized in the quarter reported by the respective partner.  Revenue from research funding under our
collaboration agreements is earned and recognized on a percentage of completion basis as research hours are incurred in accordance with the provisions of each agreement.  Nonrefundable, up-front license fees and milestone payments with standalone value that are not dependent on any future performance by us under our collaboration agreements are recognized as revenue upon
the earlier of when payments are received or collection is assured, but are deferred if we have continuing performance obligations. Amounts received under multiple-element arrangements requiring ongoing services or performance by us are recognized
over the period of such services or performance.  Revenue from milestones is recognized when earned, as evidenced by written
acknowledgement from the collaborator, provided that (i) the milestone event is substantive, its achievability was not reasonably assured at the inception of the agreement, and we have no further performance obligations relating to that event,
and (ii) collectability is reasonably assured. If these criteria are not met, the milestone payment is recognized over the remaining period of our performance obligations under the arrangement. 
Inventory  Inventory is
stated at the lower of cost or market. The Company determines cost using the first-in, first-out method. The Company analyzes its inventory levels periodically and writes down inventory to its net realizable value if it has become obsolete, has a
cost basis in excess of its expected net realizable value or is in excess of expected requirements. 
  43 


Table of Contents
Co-Promote Termination Accounting 
As part of the termination and return of co-promotion rights agreement that we entered into with Organon in January 2006, we agreed to
make quarterly payments to Organon, effective for the fourth quarter of 2006, equal to 6.5% of AVINZA net sales through December 31, 2012 and thereafter 6% through patent expiration, currently anticipated to be November 2017. The estimated fair
value of the amounts to be paid to Organon after the termination ($95.2 million as of January 2006), based on the future estimated net sales of the product, was recognized as a liability and expensed as a cost of the termination as of the effective
date of the agreement, January 2006.  In connection with the AVINZA sale transaction, King assumed our obligation to make
payments to Organon based on net sales of AVINZA (the fair value of which approximated $21.5 million as of December 31, 2011). As Organon has not consented to the legal assignment of the co-promote termination obligation from us to
King, we remain liable to Organon in the event of King’s default of this obligation. Therefore, we recorded an asset on February 26, 2007 to recognize King’s assumption of the obligation, while continuing to carry
the co-promote termination liability in our consolidated financial statements to recognize our legal obligation as primary obligor to Organon. This asset represents a non-interest bearing receivable for future payments to be made by King and is
recorded at its fair value. As of December 31, 2011 and thereafter, the receivable and liability will remain equal and adjusted each quarter for changes in the fair value of the obligation. On a quarterly basis, management reviews the carrying
value and assesses the co-promote termination receivable for impairment (e.g. in the event King defaults on the assumed obligation to pay Organon). Annually management also reviews the carrying value of the co-promote termination liability. Due to
assumptions and judgments inherent in determining the estimates of future net AVINZA sales through November 2017, the actual amount of net AVINZA sales used to determine the amount of the asset and liability for a particular period may be materially
different from current estimates. Any resulting changes to the co-promote termination liability will have a corresponding impact on the co-promote termination payments receivable. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of the
co-promote termination liability (and the corresponding receivable) was determined using a discount rate of 15%.  Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets  We review long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the assets may not be recoverable. We measure the recoverability of assets to be held and used by comparing the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are
considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Fair value of our long-lived assets is determined using the expected cash flows
discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. As of December 31, 2011, we believe that the future undiscounted cash flows to be received from our long-lived assets will exceed the assets’ carrying value. 
Income Taxes  Income
taxes are accounted for under the liability method. This approach requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of differences between the tax basis of assets or liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. A valuation allowance is provided for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items will either expire before we are able to realize their benefit or if future
deductibility is uncertain. During 2009, the IRS issued to us a Notice of Proposed Adjustment, or NOPA, seeking an increase to our taxable income for the 2007 fiscal year of $71.5 million and a $4.1 million penalty for substantial underpayment of
tax in fiscal 2007. We recorded a liability for uncertain tax positions of $25.1 million related to the income tax effect of the NOPA and $3.0 million related to estimated interest due on the proposed underpayment of tax. We also recorded deferred
income tax assets of $25.1 million associated with the ability to carry back losses from 2008 and 2009 to offset the NOPA. In addition, we recorded an income tax receivable of $4.5 million associated with changes in income tax law in relation to
prior AMT taxes paid on carry back periods. In November 2010, the IRS granted us an extension of time to make a closing-of-the-books election with respect to an ownership change, within the meaning of section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, for
the 2007 tax year. We filed an amended 2007 federal tax return in the 
  44 


Table of Contents

fourth quarter of 2010. In January 2011, we were notified by the IRS that they had completed their examination resulting in no changes to the taxes for our 2007 tax year. As of December 31,
2011, we have provided a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets as recoverability was uncertain. Developing the provision for income taxes requires significant judgment and expertise in federal and state income tax laws,
regulations and strategies, including the determination of deferred tax assets and liabilities and, if necessary, any valuation allowances that may be required for deferred tax assets. Our judgments and tax strategies are subject to audit by various
taxing authorities. While we believe we have provided adequately for our income tax liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, adverse determinations by these taxing authorities could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial condition and results of operations.  Stock-Based Compensation 
Stock-based compensation cost for awards to employees and non-employee directors is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting
period until the last tranche vests. Compensation cost for consultant awards is recognized over each separate tranche’s vesting period. We recognized compensation expense of $3.4 million, $2.3 million and $3.4 million for 2011, 2010 and
2009, respectively, associated with option awards, restricted stock and our employee stock purchase plan.  The fair-value
for options that were awarded to employees and directors was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model with the following weighted average assumptions: 
 
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
2.1
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
69
% 
 
 
72
% 
 
 
74
% 

 Expected term
  
 
6 years
  
 
 
6 years
  
 
 
6 years
  
 The expected term of the employee and non-employee director options is the estimated weighted-average
period until exercise or cancellation of vested options (forfeited unvested options are not considered) based on historical experience. The expected term for consultant awards is the remaining period to contractual expiration. 
Volatility is a measure of the expected amount of variability in the stock price over the expected life of an option expressed as a
standard deviation. In selecting this assumption, we used the historical volatility of our stock price over a period equal to the expected term. Changes in the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock-based compensation would impact the
amount of compensation expenses recognized during the period.  New Accounting Pronouncements 
In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue
Arrangements, or ASU 2009-13, which amends existing revenue recognition accounting pronouncements that are currently within the scope of ASC 605. This guidance eliminates the requirement to establish the fair value of undelivered products and
services and instead provides for separate revenue recognition based upon management’s estimate of the selling price for an undelivered item when there is no other means to determine the fair value of that undelivered item. ASU 2009-13 is
effective for us prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified beginning January 1, 2011. Our adoption of this amendment had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820) – Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value
Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” This ASU represents the converged guidance of the FASB and the IASB (the Boards) on fair value measurement. The collective efforts of the Boards and their staffs, reflected in
ASU No. 2011-04, have resulted in common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements, including a consistent meaning of the term “fair value.” ASU No. 2011-04 amends ASC 820, Fair
Value Measurements and 
  45 


Table of Contents

Disclosures to provide guidance on how fair value measurement should be applied where existing U.S. GAAP already requires or permits fair value measurements. This ASU does not extend the
use of fair value, but rather provides guidance on application. In addition, ASU No. 2011-04 requires expanded disclosures regarding fair value measurements. Our adoption of this standard had no impact on our consolidated financial position, results
of operations or cash flows.  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) –
Presentation of Comprehensive Income. This ASU amends Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, to allow an entity the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive
income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other
comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. ASU No. 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in
shareholders’ investment. The amendments to the Codification in the ASU do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. The provisions
of ASU No. 2011-05 should be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 which, for the Company, will be the beginning of fiscal year 2013. Early adoption is
permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new guidance, but does not expect the adoption of ASU No. 2011-05 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, Intangibles – Goodwill and other: testing for goodwill impairment, which,
among other things, amends Accounting Standards Topic 350 Intangibles – Goodwill and Other, to allow entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an entity to first perform a qualitative
assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the currently prescribed two-step goodwill
impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our adoption of this standard had no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications
of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in ASU 2011-12. The amendments in ASU 2011-12 defer the changes in ASU 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income.
The amendments in this ASU are effective for public entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. See above for the provisions of ASU 2011-05. 
 


Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  At December 31, 2011, our investment portfolio included fixed-income securities of $10 million. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates
increase. However, due to the short duration of our investment portfolio, an immediate 10% change in interest rates would have no material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Declines in interest rates over time
will, however, reduce our interest income.  We do not have a significant level of transactions denominated in currencies other
than U.S. dollars and as a result we have very limited foreign currency exchange rate risk. The effect of an immediate 10% change in foreign exchange rates would have no material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.  We are exposed to market risk involving rising interest rates. To the extent interest rates rise, our interest costs
could increase. An increase in interest costs of 10% would have no material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
  46 


Table of Contents


Item 8.
Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   








 
  
Page
 

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
48
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
49
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
 
50
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Income
(Loss)
  
 
51
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
52
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
53
  
  
  47 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 The Board of Directors and Shareholders  Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets
of Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders’ equity (deficit) and comprehensive loss, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that
we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an adverse opinion.  /s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP  San Diego, California 
February 23, 2012 
  48 


Table of Contents
LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
(in thousands, except share data) 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

  
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

ASSETS
  



 




 Current assets:
  



 




 Cash and cash equivalents
  
$
7,041
  
 
$
3,346
  

 Short-term investments
  
 
10,000
  
 
 
19,351
  

 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
6,110
  
 
 
993
  

 Inventory
  
 
1,301
  
 
 
—  
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
237
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other current assets
  
 
1,344
  
 
 
720
  

 Income tax receivable
  
 
—  
  
 
 
4,575
  

 Current portion of co-promote termination payments receivable
  
 
6,197
  
 
 
8,034
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current assets
  
 
32,230
  
 
 
37,019
  

 Restricted cash and investments
  
 
1,341
  
 
 
1,341
  

 Property and equipment, net
  
 
455
  
 
 
559
  

 Intangible assets, net
  
 
57,437
  
 
 
12,251
  

 Goodwill 
  
 
14,894
  
 
 
700
  

 Long-term portion of co-promote termination payments receivable
  
 
15,255
  
 
 
22,851
  

 Other assets
  
 
738
  
 
 
838
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total assets
  
$
122,350
  
 
$
75,559
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT)
  



 




 Current liabilities:
  



 




 Accounts payable
  
$
11,065
  
 
$
8,597
  

 Accrued liabilities
  
 
8,262
  
 
 
8,859
  

 Accrued litigation settlement costs
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,000
  

 Current portion of liability for contingent value rights
  
 
6,879
  
 
 
—  
  

 Current portion of deferred gain
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,702
  

 Bank line of credit
  
 
10,000
  
 
 
—  
  

 Current portion of co-promote termination liability
  
 
6,197
  
 
 
8,034
  

 Current portion of lease termination payments
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5,296
  

 Current portion of deferred revenue
  
 
1,240
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total current liabilities
  
 
43,643
  
 
 
33,488
  

 Long-term portion of note payable
  
 
20,286
  
 
 
—  
  

 Long-term portion of co-promote termination liability
  
 
15,255
  
 
 
22,851
  

 Long-term portion of deferred revenue, net
  
 
3,466
  
 
 
2,546
  

 Long-term portion of lease exit obligations
  
 
8,367
  
 
 
11,118
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
2,522
  
 
 
372
  

 Long-term portion of liability for contingent value rights
  
 
11,433
  
 
 
700
  

 Other long-term liabilities
  
 
388
  
 
 
989
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
 
105,360
  
 
 
72,064
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Commitments and contingencies
  



 




 Common stock subject to conditional redemption; 112,371 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010,
respectively
  
 
8,344
  
 
 
8,344
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Stockholders’ equity (deficit):
  



 




 Common stock, $0.001 par value; 33,333,333 shares authorized; 20,682,506 and 20,620,917 shares issued at December 31, 2011
and 2010, respectively
  
 
21
  
 
 
21
  

 Additional paid-in capital
  
 
732,676
  
 
 
729,271
  

 Accumulated other comprehensive income
  
 
—  
  
 
 
31
  

 Accumulated deficit
  
 
(681,771
) 
 
 
(691,947
) 

 Treasury stock, at cost; 1,118,222 and 1,111,999 shares at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively
  
 
(42,280
) 
 
 
(42,225
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  
 
8,646
  
 
 
(4,849
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity (deficit)
  
$
122,350
  
 
$
75,559
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  49 


Table of Contents
LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
(in thousands, except share data) 
 
















  
 
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
 
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenues:
 



 



 




 Royalties
 
$
9,213
  
 
$
7,279
  
 
$
8,334
  

 Material Sales
 
 
12,123
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Collaborative research and development and other revenues
 
 
8,701
  
 
 
16,259
  
 
 
30,606
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total revenues
 
 
30,037
  
 
 
23,538
  
 
 
38,940
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Operating costs and expenses:
 



 



 




 Cost of material sales
 
 
4,909
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Research and development
 
 
10,291
  
 
 
22,067
  
 
 
39,870
  

 General and administrative
 
 
14,977
  
 
 
12,829
  
 
 
15,211
  

 Lease exit and termination costs
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
16,894
  
 
 
15,235
  

 Write-off of acquired in-process research and development
 
 
2,282
  
 
 
2,754
  
 
 
442
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total operating costs and expenses
 
 
32,437
  
 
 
54,544
  
 
 
70,758
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Accretion of deferred gain on sale leaseback
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
1,702
  
 
 
21,851
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from operations
 
 
(698
) 
 
 
(29,304
) 
 
 
(9,967
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Other income (expense):
 



 



 




 Interest income
 
 
31
  
 
 
440
  
 
 
586
  

 Interest expense
 
 
(2,508
) 
 
 
(58
) 
 
 
(270
) 

 Decrease (increase) in liability for contingent value rights
 
 
(407
) 
 
 
9,142
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other, net
 
 
630
  
 
 
4,377
  
 
 
(221
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total other income (expense), net
 
 
(2,254
) 
 
 
13,901
  
 
 
95
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Loss from continuing operations before income tax benefit
 
 
(2,952
) 
 
 
(15,403
) 
 
 
(9,872
) 

 Income tax benefit from continuing operations
 
 
13,125
  
 
 
2,617
  
 
 
1,535
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
 
10,173
  
 
 
(12,786
) 
 
 
(8,337
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Discontinued operations:
 



 



 




 Gain on sale of AVINZA Product Line, net
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,212
  
 
 
5,434
  

 Gain on sale of Oncology Product Line, net
 
 
3
  
 
 
201
  
 
 
955
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Income from discontinued operations
 
 
3
  
 
 
2,413
  
 
 
6,389
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
10,176
  
 
 
($10,373
) 
 
 
($1,948
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted per share amounts:
 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
 
$
0.52
  
 
 
($0.65
) 
 
 
($0.44
) 

 Income from discontinued operations
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.12
  
 
 
0.34
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
 
$
0.52
  
 
 
($0.53
) 
 
 
($0.10
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares-basic
 
 
19,655,632
  
 
 
19,613,201
  
 
 
18,862,751
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average number of common shares-diluted
 
 
19,713,320
  
 
 
19,613,201
  
 
 
18,862,751
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  50 


Table of Contents
LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
(in thousands, except share data) 
 








































 
 
Common Stock
 
 
Additionalpaid-incapital

 
 
Accumulatedothercomprehensive
income (loss)
 
 
Accumulateddeficit

 
 
Treasury stock
 
 
Totalstockholders’
equity (deficit)
 
 
Comprehensiveincome (loss)
 

 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 
 
 
Shares
 
 
Amount
 
 
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
 
 
19,760,457
  
 
$
20
  
 
$
711,298
  
 
$
81
  
 
$
(679,626
) 
 
 
(1,101,317
) 
 
$
(42,134
) 
 
$
(10,365
) 
 
$
(98,042
) 

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock compensation plans
 
 
84,376
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
228
  
 
 
—  
  

 Unrealized net gain on available-for-sale securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
432
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
432
  
 
 
432
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,365
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,365
  
 
 
—  
  

 Shares redeemed in lieu of cash payment for milestone achieved
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,086
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,086
  
 
 
—  
  

 Issuance of common stock for acquisition of Neurogen
 
 
700,000
  
 
 
1
  
 
 
8,942
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,946
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,948
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,948
) 
 
 
(1,948
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2009
 
 
20,544,833
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
726,919
  
 
 
513
  
 
 
(681,574
) 
 
 
(1,101,317
) 
 
 
(42,134
) 
 
 
3,744
  
 
 
(1,516
) 

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock compensation plans
 
 
76,084
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
27
  
 
 
—  
  

 Unrealized net loss on available-for-sale securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(482
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(482
) 
 
 
(482
) 

 Repurchase of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,682
) 
 
 
(91
) 
 
 
(91
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,325
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
2,325
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net loss
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,373
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(10,373
) 
 
 
(10,373
) 


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
 
 
20,620,917
  
 
 
21
  
 
 
729,271
  
 
 
31
  
 
 
(691,947
) 
 
 
(1,111,999
) 
 
 
(42,225
) 
 
 
(4,850
) 
 
 
(10,855
) 

 Issuance of common stock under employee stock compensation plans, net
 
 
61,589
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
54
  
 
 
—  
  

 Unrealized net loss on available-for-sale securities
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(31
) 
 
 
(31
) 

 Repurchase of common stock
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(6,223
) 
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
(55
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Stock-based compensation
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,351
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
3,351
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,176
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
10,176
  
 
 
10,176
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
 
 
20,682,506
  
 
 
21
  
 
$
732,676
  
 
$
—  
  
 
$
(681,771
) 
 
 
(1,118,222
) 
 
$
(42,280
) $ 
 
 
8,646
  
 
$
10,145
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  51 


Table of Contents
LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
(in thousands)   
















  
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Operating activities
  



 



 




 Net income (loss)
  
$
10,176
  
 
 
($10,373
) 
 
 
($1,948
) 

 Less: gain from discontinued operations
  
 
3
  
 
 
2,413
  
 
 
6,389
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
10,173
  
 
 
(12,786
) 
 
 
(8,337
) 

 Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash used in operating activities, including effects of business
acquired:
  



 



 




 Write-off of acquired in-process research and development
  
 
2,282
  
 
 
2,754
  
 
 
442
  

 Non-cash change in estimated fair value of contingent value rights
  
 
1,282
  
 
 
(9,142
) 
 
 
0
  

 Accretion of deferred gain on sale leaseback
  
 
(1,702
) 
 
 
(1,702
) 
 
 
(21,851
) 

 Depreciation and amortization
  
 
2,790
  
 
 
2,212
  
 
 
4,634
  

 Non-cash lease costs
  
 
(51
) 
 
 
9,042
  
 
 
10,102
  

 Non-cash development milestone revenue
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(915
) 

 Loss (gain) on asset write-offs
  
 
(456
) 
 
 
5,303
  
 
 
500
  

 Realized loss (gain) on investment
  
 
6
  
 
 
(607
) 
 
 
(232
) 

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
3,351
  
 
 
2,325
  
 
 
3,365
  

 Deferred income taxes
  
 
(13,257
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other
  
 
285
  
 
 
32
  
 
 
(18
) 

 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisition:
  



 



 




 Accounts receivable, net
  
 
(3,915
) 
 
 
(375
) 
 
 
(618
) 

 Inventory
  
 
1,114
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Other current assets
  
 
4,864
  
 
 
(3,931
) 
 
 
(448
) 

 Other long term assets
  
 
605
  
 
 
(332
) 
 
 
10,346
  

 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities
  
 
(11,568
) 
 
 
(13,447
) 
 
 
(10,989
) 

 Other liabilities
  
 
865
  
 
 
(715
) 
 
 
(2,318
) 

 Deferred revenue
  
 
2,160
  
 
 
(5,938
) 
 
 
(14,302
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in operating activities of continuing operations
  
 
(1,172
) 
 
 
(27,307
) 
 
 
(30,639
) 

 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities of discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
240
  
 
 
(3,162
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash used in operating activities
  
 
(1,172
) 
 
 
(27,067
) 
 
 
(33,801
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Investing activities
  



 



 




 Acquisition of Metabasis, net of cash acquired
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(2,834
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Acquisition of CyDex, net of cash acquired
  
 
(32,024
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Cash acquired from acquisition of Neurogen
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
9,796
  

 Payments to CVR holders
  
 
(2,875
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Acquisition of intellectual property
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,247
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Purchases of property, equipment and building
  
 
(78
) 
 
 
(70
) 
 
 
(522
) 

 Proceeds from sale of property, and equipment and building
  
 
530
  
 
 
589
  
 
 
108
  

 Purchases of short-term investments
  
 
(10,000
) 
 
 
(35,584
) 
 
 
(32,806
) 

 Proceeds from sale of short-term investments
  
 
19,346
  
 
 
54,040
  
 
 
47,761
  

 Other, net
  
 
(31
) 
 
 
(354
) 
 
 
431
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provide by (used in) investing activities of continuing operations
  
 
(25,132
) 
 
 
14,540
  
 
 
24,768
  

 Net cash provided by investing activities of discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities
  
 
(25,132
) 
 
 
14,540
  
 
 
24,768
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Financing activities
  



 



 




 Principal payments on equipment financing obligations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(91
) 
 
 
(473
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of debt
  
 
30,000
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Repayment of debt
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
(3,443
) 

 Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net
  
 
54
  
 
 
23
  
 
 
228
  

 Share repurchases
  
 
(55
) 
 
 
(91
) 
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of continuing operations
  
 
29,999
  
 
 
(159
) 
 
 
(3,688
) 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities of discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
  
 
29,999
  
 
 
(159
) 
 
 
(3,688
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
  
 
3,695
  
 
 
(12,686
) 
 
 
(12,721
) 

 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
  
 
3,346
  
 
 
16,032
  
 
 
28,753
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
  
$
7,041
  
 
$
3,346
  
 
$
16,032
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information
  



 



 




 Cash paid during the year:
  



 



 




 Interest paid
  
$
2,463
  
 
$
58
  
 
$
270
  

 Taxes paid
  
 
39
  
 
 
28
  
 
 
14
  

 Proceeds received from sale of building and disbursed to Neurogen shareholders
  
 
—  
  
 
 
3,170
  
 
 
—  
  

 Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities
  



 



 




 Issuance of common stock for acquisition
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
8,946
  

See accompanying notes to these consolidated financial statements. 
  52 


Table of Contents
LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
1. The Company and Its Business 
Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the “Company” or “Ligand”) is a
biopharmaceutical company with a business model that is based upon the concept of developing or acquiring royalty revenue generating assets and coupling them to a lean corporate cost structure. By diversifying the portfolio of assets across numerous
technology types, therapeutic areas, drug targets, and industry partners, the Company offers investors an opportunity to invest in the increasingly complicated and unpredictable pharmaceutical industry. In comparison to its peers, the Company
believes it has assembled one of the largest and most diversified asset portfolios in the industry with the potential to generate revenue in the future. These therapies address the unmet medical needs of patients for a broad spectrum of diseases
including hepatitis, muscle wasting, Alzheimer’s disease, dyslipidemia, diabetes, anemia, COPD, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis and osteoporosis. Ligand has established multiple alliances with the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies
including GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Pfizer, Baxter International, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Lundbeck Inc. and The Medicines Company. The Company’s principle market is the United States. The Company sold its Oncology
Product Line (“Oncology”) and AVINZA Product Line (“AVINZA”) on October 25, 2006 and February 26, 2007, respectively. The operating results for Oncology and AVINZA have been presented in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements as “Discontinued Operations”.  The Company has incurred significant losses
since its inception. At December 31, 2011, the Company’s accumulated deficit was $681.8 million and the Company had negative working capital of $11.4 million. Management believes that cash flows from operations will improve due to
consistent CAPTISOL® sales, an increase in royalty revenues driven primarily from continued increases in
PROMACTA sales, as well as anticipated new license and milestone revenues. In the event revenues and operating cash flows are not meeting expectations, management plans to reduce discretionary expenses. However, it is possible that the Company may
be required to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to management, or at all. Management believes its currently available cash, cash equivalents, and short-term
investments as well as its current and future royalty, license and milestone revenues will be sufficient to satisfy its anticipated operating and capital requirements, through at least the next twelve months. The Company’s future operating and
capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: the pace of scientific progress in its research and development programs; the potential success of these programs; the scope and results of preclinical testing and
clinical trials; the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; competing technological and market developments; the amount of royalties
on sales of the commercial products of its partners; the efforts of its collaborative partners; obligations under its operating lease agreements; and the capital requirements of any companies the Company acquires, including Pharmacopeia, Inc.
(“Pharmacopeia”), Neurogen Corporation (“Neurogen”), Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc. (“Metabasis”) and CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“CyDex”). The ability of the Company to achieve its operational targets is
dependent upon the Company’s ability to further implement its business plan and generate sufficient operating cash flow. 
2. Significant Accounting Policies 
Principles of Consolidation  The consolidated financial statements include the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries, Seragen, Inc. (“Seragen”), Nexus Equity VI LLC (“Nexus”), Pharmacopeia, Neurogen, Metabasis
and CyDex. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  53 


Table of Contents
Use of Estimates  The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities, including disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities, at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses, in-process research and development, goodwill, deferred
revenue and income tax net operating losses during the reporting period. The Company’s critical accounting policies are those that are both most important to the Company’s consolidated financial condition and results of operations and
require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of the uncertainty of
factors surrounding the estimates or judgments used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results may materially vary from these estimates.  Income (Loss) Per Share  Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing
net income or loss by the weighted average number of common shares and vested restricted stock units outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed by dividing net income or loss by the weighted average number of common shares and vested
restricted stock units outstanding and the weighted average number of dilutive common stock equivalents, including stock options and non-vested restricted stock units. Common stock equivalents are only included in the diluted earnings per share
calculation when their effect is dilutive. For the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, no potential common shares are included in the computation of any diluted per share amounts, including income (loss) per share from discontinued
operations and net loss per share, as the Company reported a loss from continuing operations. Potential common shares, the shares that would be issued upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and warrants and the vesting of restricted shares
that are excluded from the computation of diluted net income (loss) per share, were 1.6 million, 1.0 million and 1.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 respectively. 
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share for the periods indicated (in thousands,
except per share amounts):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Net income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
10,173
  
  
$
(12,786
) 
 
$
(8,337
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
3
  
  
 
2,413
  
 
 
6,389
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
10,176
  
  
 
(10,373
) 
 
 
(1,948
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute basic income (loss) per share
  
 
19,655,632
  
  
 
19,613,201
  
 
 
18,862,751
  

 Dilutive potential common shares:
  



  



 




 Restricted stock
  
 
57,688
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Shares used to compute diluted income (loss) per share
  
 
19,713,320
  
  
 
19,613,201
  
 
 
18,862,751
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Basic and diluted per share amounts:
  



  



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
0.52
  
  
$
(0.65
) 
 
$
(0.44
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
  
 
0.12
  
 
 
0.34
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net income (loss)
  
$
0.52
  
  
$
(0.53
) 
 
$
(0.10
) 


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

  54 


Table of Contents
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments 
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and highly liquid securities with maturities at the date of acquisition of three months or less.
Non-restricted equity and debt security investments with a maturity of more than three months are considered short-term investments and have been classified by management as available-for-sale. Such investments are carried at fair value, with
unrealized gains and losses included as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. The Company determines the cost of investments based on the specific identification method.  Restricted Cash and Investments  Restricted cash and investments consist of
certificates of deposit held with a financial institution as collateral under a facility lease and third-party service provider arrangements. The certificates of deposit have been classified by management as held-to-maturity and are accounted for at
amortized cost.  Concentrations of Credit Risk  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and investments. 
The Company invests its excess cash principally in United States government debt securities, investment grade corporate debt securities
and certificates of deposit. The Company has established guidelines relative to diversification and maturities that maintain safety and liquidity. These guidelines are periodically reviewed and modified to take advantage of trends in yields and
interest rates. During 2011 the Company did not experience any significant losses on its cash equivalents, short-term investments or restricted investments. As of December 31, 2011, cash deposits held at financial institutions in excess of FDIC
insured amounts of $250,000 were approximately $13.1 million.  Accounts receivable from two customers were 67% of total
accounts receivable at December 31, 2011. Accounts receivable from one customer was 100% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2010.  The Company obtains CAPTISOL® from a sole-source supplier. If
this supplier were not able to supply the requested amounts of CAPTISOL, the Company would be unable to continue to derive revenues from the sale of CAPTISOL until it obtained an alternative source, which might take a considerable length of time.
 Inventory 
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market. The Company determines cost using the first-in, first-out method. The Company analyzes
its inventory levels periodically and writes down inventory to its net realizable value if it has become obsolete, has a cost basis in excess of its expected net realizable value or is in excess of expected requirements. 
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  The Company maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts based on the best estimate of the amount of probable losses in the Company’s existing accounts receivable. Accounts receivable that are
outstanding longer than their contractual payment terms, ranging from 30 to 90 days, are considered past due. When determining the allowance for doubtful accounts, several factors are taken into consideration, including historical write-off
experience and review of specific customer accounts for collectability. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after collection efforts have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. There was no allowance
for doubtful accounts recorded as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
  55 


Table of Contents
Property and Equipment  Property and equipment is stated at cost and consists of the following (in thousands):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Lab and office equipment
  
$
4,110
  
 
$
5,676
  

 Leasehold improvements
  
 
62
  
 
 
55
  

 Computer equipment and software
  
 
1,054
  
 
 
3,996
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
5,226
  
 
 
9,727
  

 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization
  
 
(4,771
) 
 
 
(9,168
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
455
  
 
$
559
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Depreciation of equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets which range from three to ten years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives or their related lease term, whichever is shorter. Depreciation expense of $0.5 million, $2.1
million and $3.1 million was recognized in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively,  In September 2010, the Company ceased use of
its facility located in New Jersey. As a result, during the quarter ended September 30, 2010, the Company recorded lease exit costs of $9.7 million for costs related to the difference between the remaining lease obligations of the abandoned
operating leases, which run through August 2016, and management’s estimate of potential future sublease income, discounted to present value. In addition, the Company wrote-off property and equipment with a net book value of $5.4 million related
to the facility closure.  Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets 
Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets consist of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Acquired in-process research and development
  
$
13,036
  
 
$
12,379
  

 Complete technology
  
 
14,643
  
 
 
—  
  

 Trade name
  
 
2,537
  
 
 
—  
  

 Customer relationships
  
 
29,400
  
 
 
—  
  

 Goodwill
  
 
14,894
  
 
 
700
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
74,510
  
 
 
13,079
  

 Accumulated amortization
  
 
(2,179
) 
 
 
(128
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
$
72,331
  
 
$
12,951
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 The Company accounts for goodwill in accordance with GAAP which, among other things, establishes
standards for goodwill acquired in a business combination, eliminates the amortization of goodwill and requires the carrying value of goodwill and certain non-amortizing intangibles to be evaluated for impairment on an annual basis. The Company
considers its market capitalization and the carrying value of its assets and liabilities, including goodwill, when performing its goodwill impairment test. If the carrying value of the assets and liabilities, including goodwill, were to exceed the
Company’s estimation of the fair value, the Company would record an impairment charge in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over the implied fair value of the goodwill The Company performs an evaluation of goodwill
as of December 31 of each year, absent any indicators of earlier impairment, to ensure that impairment charges, if applicable, are reflected in our financial results before December 31 of each year. When it is determined that impairment
has occurred, a charge to operations is recorded. Goodwill and other intangible asset balances are included in the identifiable assets of the business segment to which they have been assigned. Any goodwill impairment, as well as the amortization of
other purchased intangible assets, is charged against the respective business segments’ operating income. To date, there has been no impairment of goodwill for continuing operations. 
  56 


Table of Contents
Amortization of definite lived intangibles is computed using the straight-line method over
the estimated useful life of the asset of 20 years. Amortization expense of $2.3 million, $0.1 million and $0 was recognized in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the years ending December 31, 2012 through 2016 is
$2.3 million per year.  In January 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. As a result of
the transaction, the Company recorded $46.6 million of intangible assets with definite lives. The weighted-average amortization period for the identified intangible assets with definite lives is 20 years. In addition, the Company recorded
$3.2 million of acquired In-Process Research and Development (IPR&D) and $14.2 million of goodwill.  In May 2010, the
Company purchased from the Genaera Liquidating Trust certain intellectual property and interests in future milestones and royalties for MEDI-528, an IL-9 antibody program under development by AstraZeneca’s subsidiary, MedImmune. MEDI-528 is
currently in a 320-patient Phase II study for moderate-to-severe asthma. The Company paid $2.8 million to the Genaera Liquidating Trust in connection with the purchase. As part of the transaction, the Company also entered into a separate agreement
with a shareholder of Ligand, whereby the shareholder and Ligand agreed to share the purchase price and any proceeds from the deal equally. Accordingly, the Company was reimbursed for $1.4 million of the purchase price. The Company recorded the net
purchase price of $1.4 million as acquired In-Process Research and Development (“IPR&D”). As discussed below, the asset was subsequently impaired upon receipt of notice from MedImmune that it was exercising its right to terminate the
collaboration and license agreement.  In January 2010, the Company completed its acquisition of Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc.
(“Metabasis”). As a result, the Company recorded $12.0 million of the purchase price of Metabasis as IPR&D. 
In December 2009, the Company completed its acquisition of Neurogen Corporation (“Neurogen”). As a result, the Company recorded
$1.8 million of the purchase price of Neurogen as IPR&D.  Acquired in-process research and development 
Intangible assets related to in-process research and development costs, or IPR&D, are considered to be indefinite-lived until the
completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. During the period the assets are considered to be indefinite-lived, they will not be amortized but will be tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual
tests if the Company becomes aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the IPR&D projects below their respective carrying amounts. If and when development is complete, which
generally occurs if and when regulatory approval to market a product is obtained, the associated assets would be deemed finite-lived and would then be amortized based on their respective estimated useful lives at that point in time. 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  Management reviews long-lived assets for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be
held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as
the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Fair value for the Company’s long-lived assets is determined using the expected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved.

  57 


Table of Contents
During 2011, the impairment analysis performed by management resulted in the write-off of
certain acquired in process research and development assets. The Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.1 million for the write-off of IPR&D and interests in future milestones and royalties for MEDI-528, an IL-9 antibody
program by AstraZeneca’s subsidiary, MedImmune. The asset was impaired upon receipt of notice from MedImmune in September that it was exercising its right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement.
Additionally, in 2011, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $1.2 million for the write-off of IPR&D and interests in
future milestones for TRPV1, a collaborative research and licensing program between the Company and Merck, related to the physiology, pharmacology, chemistry and potential therapeutic applications and potential clinical utilities related to
Vanilloid Receptors, subtype 1. The asset was impaired upon receipt of notice from Merck in October 2011 that it was exercising its right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement. Subsequent to the termination of the agreement, the
Company will receive an exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free (but subject to any third party royalty obligations), fully-paid world-wide license, with the right to sub- license, under specified patents and technology for the research,
development, or commercialization of specified compounds and products in a limited field of use.  In November 2010, Roche
notified the Company that it was exercising its right to terminate the collaboration and license agreement with the Company’s subsidiary, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc. As a result, the Company’s management reviewed the carrying amount of
the intangible asset related to this agreement. Based on an analysis of available information, management determined that the asset would not generate future cash flows. Therefore, the Company wrote-off the $2.8 million of acquired in-process
research and development associated with the agreement during the year ended December 31, 2010.  As of December 31, 2011,
management does not believe there have been any other events or circumstances indicating that the carrying amount of its remaining long-lived assets may not be recoverable.  Liability for Contingent Value Rights  In connection with the
Company’s acquisition of CyDex, the Company recorded a $19.2 million contingent liability, inclusive of the $4.3 million payment made in January 2012, for amounts potentially due to holders of the CyDex CVRs. The initial fair value of the
liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the estimated future cash flows from potential milestones and revenue sharing. These cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of 21.6%. The
liability will be periodically assessed based on events and circumstances related to the underlying milestones, and the change in fair value will be recorded in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. The carrying amount of the
liability may fluctuate significantly and actual amounts paid under the CVR agreements may be materially different than the carrying amount of the liability. The fair value of the liability at December 31, 2011 was $16.5 million. As a result,
the Company recorded a decrease in the liability for contingent value rights of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.  In connection with the Company’s acquisition of Metabasis in January 2010, the Company issued Metabasis stockholders four tradable contingent value rights, one contingent value right from each of
four respective series of contingent value rights, for each Metabasis share. The contingent value rights will entitle Metabasis stockholders to cash payments as frequently as every six months as cash is received by the Company from proceeds from
Metabasis’ partnership with Roche or the sale or partnering of any of the Metabasis drug development programs, among other triggering events. The acquisition-date fair value of the contingent value rights of $9.1 million was determined using
quoted market prices of Metabasis common stock in active markets. The fair values of the contingent value rights are remeasured at each reporting date through the term of the related agreement. Changes in the fair values are reported in the
statement of operations as income (decreases) or expense (increases). The carrying amount of the liability may fluctuate significantly based upon quoted market prices and actual amounts paid under the agreements may be materially different than the
carrying amount of the liability. The fair value of the liability was $1.1 million and $0 as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result, the Company recorded an increase in the liability for contingent value rights of $1.1 million
during the year ended December 31, 2011 and a decrease of $9.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
  58 


Table of Contents
In connection with the Company’s acquisition of Neurogen in December 2009, the Company
issued to Neurogen stockholders four contingent value rights; real estate, Aplindore, VR1 and H3, that entitle them to cash and/or shares of third-party stock under certain circumstances. The Company recorded the acquisition-date fair value of the
contingent value rights as part of the purchase price. The acquisition-date fair value of the real estate contingent value right of $3.2 million was estimated using the net proceeds from a pending sale transaction and recorded as a payable to
stockholders at December 31, 2009. In February 2010, the Company completed the sale of the real estate and subsequently distributed the proceeds to the holders of the real estate contingent value rights. As a result and after final settlement
of all related expenses, the real estate contingent value right was terminated in August 2010. The acquisition-date fair value of the Aplindore, VR1 and H3 contingent value rights of $0, $0.2 million and $0.5 million, respectively, were estimated
using the “income method”, which uses a discounted cash flow model and applies a probability weighting based on estimates of successful product development and commercialization to estimated future net cash flows resulting from projected
revenues and related costs. The fair values of the contingent value rights are remeasured at each reporting date through the term of the related agreement. Changes in the fair values are reported in the statement of operations as income (decreases)
or expense (increases). At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate fair values of the Aplindore, VR1 and H3 CVR’s were $0.7 million and $0.7 million, respectively, and included in other long-term liabilities in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets as management is unable to estimate the timing of potential future payments.  In connection with
the Company’s acquisition of Pharmacopeia in December 2008, the Company issued to Pharmacopeia security holders a contingent value right that entitles each holder to receive a proportionate share of an aggregate of $15.0 million if the Company
entered into a license, sale, development, marketing or option agreement with respect to any product candidate from Pharmacopeia’s DARA program. The Company did not record a liability for contingent value rights at the time of the acquisition
as the Company’s management deemed, based on available information, that the likelihood of payment was not determinable beyond a reasonable doubt. The contingent value rights expired on December 31, 2011. 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments  Fair value is defined as the exit price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. Fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined using assumptions that
market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The Company establishes a three-level hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in measuring fair value. The levels are described in the table below with Level 1 having the highest
priority and Level 3 having the lowest.  The following table provides a summary of the assets and liabilities that are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2011 (in thousands):   




















 
  
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
 

 
  
Total
 
  
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets
 
  
Significant OtherObservable Inputs
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs
 

 
  
  
(Level 1)
 
  
(Level 2)
 
  
(Level 3)
 

 Assets:
  



  



  



  




 Short-term investments
  
$
10,000
  
  
$
10,000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Liabilities:
  



  



  



  




 Current potion of liability for contingent value rights—CyDex
  
$
6,879
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
6,879
  

 Liability for contingent value rights—Metabasis
  
 
1,068
  
  
 
1,068
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Liability for contingent value rights—Neurogen
  
 
700
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
700
  

 Liability for contingent value rights—CyDex
  
 
9,665
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
9,665
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

 Total liabilities
  
$
18,312
  
  
$
1,068
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
17,244
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  59 


Table of Contents
The following table provides a summary of the assets and liabilities that are measured at
fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands):   




















 
 
Fair Value Measurements at Reporting Date Using
 

 
 
Total
 
 
Quoted Prices inActive Markets forIdentical Assets
 
  
Significant OtherObservable Inputs
 
  
SignificantUnobservableInputs
 

 
 
 
(Level 1)
 
  
(Level 2)
 
  
(Level 3)
 

 Assets:
 



 



  



  




 Short-term investments
 
$
 19,351
  
 
$
 19,351
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  

 Liabilities:
 



 



  



  




 Liability for contingent value rights—Metabasis
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  

 Liability for contingent value rights—Neurogen
 
 
700
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
700
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


 
$
700
  
 
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
700
  


 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 The Company’s short-term investments are fixed income available-for-sale securities and include U.S.
Government Notes and Corporate Discount Commercial Paper. The fair value of the Company’s short-term investments is determined using quoted market prices in active markets. The Metabasis CVR liability is marked-to-market at each reporting
period based upon the quoted market prices of the underlying CVR. The CyDex and Neurogen CVR liability is marked-to-market at each reporting period based upon a discounted cash flow analysis.  Revenue Recognition  Royalties on sales of products commercialized by the
Company’s partners are recognized in the quarter reported by the respective partner.  Revenue from material sales is
recognized upon transfer of title, which normally passes to the buyer upon shipment to the customer. The Company’s credit and exchange policy includes provisions for the return of product between 30 to 90 days, depending on the specific terms
of the individual agreement, when that product (1) does not meet specifications, (2) is damaged in shipment (in limited circumstances where title does not transfer until delivery), or (3) is exchanged for an alternative grade of
CAPTISOL.  Revenue from research funding under the Company’s collaboration agreements is earned and recognized on a
percentage-of-completion basis as research hours are incurred in accordance with the provisions of each agreement. 
Nonrefundable, up-front license fees and milestone payments with standalone value that are not dependent on any future performance by the
Company under the Company’s collaboration agreements are recognized as revenue upon the earlier of when payments are received or collection is assured, but are deferred if the Company has continuing performance obligations. Amounts received
under multiple-element arrangements requiring ongoing services or performance by the Company are recognized over the period of such services or performance.  Revenue from milestones is recognized when earned, as evidenced by written acknowledgement from the collaborator, provided that (i) the milestone event is substantive, its achievability was not
reasonably assured at the inception of the agreement, and the Company has no further performance obligations relating to that event, and (ii) collectability is reasonably assured. If these criteria are not met, the milestone payment is
recognized over the remaining period of the Company’s performance obligations under the arrangement. 
  60 


Table of Contents
The composition of collaborative research and development and other revenues is as follows
(in thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 
  
2009
 

 Collaborative research and development
  
$
601
  
  
$
7,734
  
  
$
23,316
  

 License fees
  
 
5,889
  
  
 
6,250
  
  
 
525
  

 Development milestones and other
  
 
2,211
  
  
 
2,275
  
  
 
6,765
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
8,701
  
  
$
16,259
  
  
$
30,606
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Preclinical Study and Clinical Trial Accruals 
Substantial portions of the Company’s preclinical studies and all of the Company’s clinical trials have been performed by
third-party laboratories, contract research organizations, or other vendors (collectively CROs). Some CROs bill monthly for services performed, while others bill based upon milestone achievement. The Company accrues for each of the
significant agreements it has with CROs on a monthly basis. For preclinical studies, accruals are estimated based upon the percentage of work completed and the contract milestones achieved. For clinical studies, accruals are estimated based
upon a percentage of work completed, the number of patients enrolled and the duration of the study. The Company monitors patient enrollment, the progress of clinical studies and related activities to the extent possible through internal reviews
of data reported to it by the CROs, correspondence with the CROs and clinical site visits. The Company’s estimates are dependent upon the timelines and accuracy of the data provided by its CROs regarding the status of each program and
total program spending. The Company periodically evaluates its estimates to determine if adjustments are necessary or appropriate based on information it receives concerning changing circumstances, and conditions or events that may affect such
estimates. No material adjustments to preclinical study and clinical trial accrued expenses have been recognized to date.  Warrant
Liability  To qualify as permanent equity, an equity derivative, including warrants, must permit the Company to settle in
unregistered shares. Under securities law, if the warrants were issued in connection with a public offering and have a cash settlement feature at the holder’s option, the Company does not have the ability to settle in unregistered shares.
Therefore, the warrants cannot be classified as permanent equity and are instead classified as a liability. The warrants that the Company issued as part of its equity financing in October 2006 meet this criterion, and their fair value has been
recorded as a liability in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The warrants expire in April 2012. Other warrants the Company had previously issued qualify as permanent equity and do not require remeasurement. 
The Company records its warrant liabilities at fair value using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model and remeasures at each reporting
date until the warrants are exercised or have expired. Changes in the fair value of the warrants are reported in the statements of operations as income or expense. The fair value of the warrants is subject to significant fluctuation based on changes
in the Company’s stock price, expected volatility, expected life, the risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. The market price for the Company’s common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Consequently, future fluctuations
in the price of the Company’s common stock may cause significant increases or decreases in the fair value of the warrants. 
Sale of Royalty Rights  The Company previously sold to third parties the rights to future royalties of certain of its products. As part of the underlying royalty agreements, the partners have the right to offset a portion of any
future royalty payments owed to the Company to the extent of previous milestone payments. Accordingly, the Company deferred a portion of the revenue associated with each tranche of royalty right sold, equal to the pro-rata share of

  61 


Table of Contents

the potential royalty offset. Such amounts associated with the offset rights against future royalty payments will be recognized as revenue upon receipt of future royalties from the respective
partners. As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, the Company had deferred $1.3 and $2.5 million of revenue, respectively, which is included in long-term portion of deferred revenue. 
Product Returns  In
connection with the sale of the Company’s product lines, the Company retained the obligation for returns of product that were shipped to wholesalers prior to the close of the transactions. The accruals for product returns, which were recorded
as part of the accounting for the sales transactions, are based on historical experience. Any subsequent changes to the Company’s estimate of product returns are accounted for as a component of discontinued operations. 
Costs and Expenses 
Collaborative research and development expense consists of the labor, material, equipment and allocated facilities cost of the
Company’s scientific staff who are working pursuant to the Company’s collaborative agreements. From time to time, collaborative research and development expense includes costs related to research efforts in excess of those required under
certain collaborative agreements. Management has the discretion to set the scope of such excess efforts and may increase or decrease the level of such efforts depending on the Company’s strategic priorities. 
Proprietary research and development expense consists of intellectual property in-licensing costs, labor, materials, contracted services,
and allocated facility costs that are incurred in connection with internally funded drug discovery and development programs. 
Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Research and development expenses from continuing operations were $10.3 million,
$22.1 million and $39.9 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, of which 99%, 61% and 47%, respectively, were sponsored by Ligand, and the remainder of which was funded pursuant to collaborative research and development arrangements.
 Income Taxes 
The Company recognizes liabilities or assets for the deferred tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets or
liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements. These temporary differences will result in taxable or deductible amounts in future years when the reported amounts of the assets or liabilities are recovered or settled. A valuation
allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management evaluates the realizability of its net deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis and
valuation allowances are provided, as necessary. During this evaluation, management reviews its forecasts of income in conjunction with other positive and negative evidence surrounding the realizability of its deferred tax assets to determine if a
valuation allowance is required. Adjustments to the valuation allowance will increase or decrease the Company’s income tax provision or benefit. Management also applies the relevant guidance to determine the amount of income tax expense or
benefit to be allocated among continuing operations, discontinued operations, and items charged or credited directly to stockholders’ equity (deficit).  A tax position must meet a minimum probability threshold before a financial statement benefit is recognized. The minimum threshold is a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon
examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in
income tax expense. 
  62 


Table of Contents
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation 
The Company has employee compensation plans under which various types of stock-based instruments are granted. Share-based payments to
employees, including grants of employee stock options, are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as compensation expense (based on their estimated fair values at grant date) generally over the vesting period of the awards using the
straight-line method. Compensation expense for consultant awards is recognized over each separate tranche’s vesting period. 
Comprehensive Income (Loss)  Comprehensive income (loss) represents net income (loss) adjusted for the change during the periods presented in unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities less reclassification
adjustments for realized gains or losses included in net income (loss). The accumulated unrealized gains or losses are reported as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. 
New Accounting Pronouncements  In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2009-13, Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, or ASU 2009-13, which amends existing revenue
recognition accounting pronouncements that are currently within the scope of ASC 605. This guidance eliminates the requirement to establish the fair value of undelivered products and services and instead provides for separate revenue recognition
based upon management’s estimate of the selling price for an undelivered item when there is no other means to determine the fair value of that undelivered item. ASU 2009-13 is effective for us prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into
or materially modified beginning January 1, 2011. Our adoption of this amendment had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820)—Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs.” This
ASU represents the converged guidance of the FASB and the IASB (the Boards) on fair value measurement. The collective efforts of the Boards and their staffs, reflected in ASU No. 2011-04, have resulted in common requirements for measuring fair value
and for disclosing information about fair value measurements, including a consistent meaning of the term “fair value.” ASU No. 2011-04 amends ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures to provide guidance on how fair value
measurement should be applied where existing U.S. GAAP already requires or permits fair value measurements. This ASU does not extend the use of fair value, but rather provides guidance on application. In addition, ASU No. 2011-04 requires expanded
disclosures regarding fair value measurements. Our adoption of this standard had no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)—Presentation of Comprehensive Income. This ASU amends Topic 220, Comprehensive Income, to allow an entity
the option to present the total of comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In
both choices, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. ASU
No. 2011-05 eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholders’ investment. The amendments to the Codification in the ASU do not change the items that must be
reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. The provisions of ASU No. 2011-05 should be applied retrospectively and are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods
within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 which, for the Company, will be the beginning of fiscal year 2013. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this new guidance, but does not expect the
adoption of ASU No. 2011-05 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  63 


Table of Contents
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, Intangibles—Goodwill and other:
testing for goodwill impairment, which, among other things, amends Accounting Standards Topic 350 Intangibles—Goodwill and Other, to allow entities to use a qualitative approach to test goodwill for impairment. ASU 2011-08 permits an
entity to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If it is concluded that this is the case, it is necessary to perform the
currently prescribed two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our adoption of this standard had no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-12, Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of
Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in ASU 2011-12. The amendments in ASU 2011-12 defer the changes in ASU 2011-05 that relate to the presentation of reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other
comprehensive income. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011. See above for the provisions of ASU 2011-05. 
3. Segment Reporting 
Under Accounting Standards Codification No. 280, “Segment Reporting”, or ASC 280, operating segments are
defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is regularly evaluated by the entity’s chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The
Company has evaluated this Codification and has identified two reportable segments: the development and commercialization of drugs using CAPTISOL technology by the recently acquired CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the biopharmaceutical company with
a business model that is based upon the concept of developing or acquiring royalty revenue generating assets and coupling them to a lean corporate cost structure of Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc. The Company evaluates performance based on the
operating profit (loss) of the respective business segments. The segment results may not represent actual results that would be expected if they were independent, stand-alone businesses. Segment information was as follows for the year ended
December 31, 2011:   
















 
  
Ligand
 
 
CyDex
 
  
Total
 

 For the Year Ending December 31, 2011:
  



 



  




 Net revenues from external customers
  
$
13,790
  
 
$
16,247
  
  
$
30,037
  

 Operating profit (loss)
  
 
(5,733
) 
 
 
5,035
  
  
 
(698
) 

 Depreciation and amortization expense
  
 
486
  
 
 
2,304
  
  
 
2,790
  

 Income tax expense (benefit)
  
 
13,103
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
13,103
  

 Interest expense
  
 
2,508
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
2,508
  

 Write-off of acquired in process research and development
  
 
2,282
  
 
 
—  
  
  
 
2,282
  

 Assets
  
 
111,431
  
 
 
10,919
  
  
 
122,350
  

4. Acquisition of CyDex 
On January 24, 2011, the Company acquired CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“CyDex”), a specialty
pharmaceutical company developing products and licensing its CAPTISOL technology. CAPTISOL is currently incorporated in five FDA-approved medications and marketed by three of CyDex’s licensees: Pfizer, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Baxter (formerly
Prism Pharmaceuticals). In addition, CyDex is supporting drug development efforts with more than 40 companies worldwide. 
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid $31.6 million, net of a working capital adjustment of $0.5 million, to the CyDex
shareholders and issued a series of Contingent Value Rights (CVR). In 2011, $0.9 million was paid to the CyDex Shareholders upon completion of a licensing agreement with The Medicines Company for the CAPTISOL enabled Intravenous formulation of
Clopidogrel. An additional $2 million was paid 
  64 


Table of Contents

to the CyDex Shareholders upon acceptance by the FDA of the New Drug Application submitted by Onyx. In January 2012, the Company paid $4.3 million and may be required to pay up to an additional
$9.5 million upon achievement of certain milestones. In addition, the Company will pay CyDex shareholders, for each respective year from 2011 through 2016, 20% of all CyDex-related revenue, but only to the extent that and beginning only when
CyDex-related revenue for such year exceeds $15.0 million; plus an additional 10% of all CyDex-related revenue recognized during such year, but only to the extent that and beginning only when aggregate CyDex-related revenue for such year exceeds
$35.0 million.  The CyDex CVR Agreement requires the Company to, in the event of a Default, deliver to an escrow agent the
future cash payments described above, and such amounts would then be delivered by the escrow agent to the CyDex shareholders if, as and when they would have by the CyDex CVR Agreement been required to be delivered to the CyDex shareholders by the
Company. “Default” includes the following, subject to certain cure rights: (a) the Company fails to pay to the Shareholders’ Account any amount as and when required under the CyDex CVR Agreement, (b) at any time the Company
is obligated for more than $35.0 million of financial indebtedness (other than financial indebtedness which is expressly subordinated to all obligations of Ligand under the CyDex CVR Agreement pursuant to a written subordination agreement signed by
and reasonably acceptable to the Shareholders’ Representative), (c) at any time after March 15, 2011 the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments is less than $10.0 million, or (d) the Company commits any
material breach of the CyDex CVR Agreement. Pursuant to the CVR Agreement, the shareholders’ representative on behalf of the former CyDex shareholders has recently filed a notice of objection with the Company regarding the calculation of
payments due to the CyDex former shareholders for the first and second quarters of 2011. In addition, the shareholders’ representative has claimed that the Company exceeded the $35 million financial indebtedness limitation contained in the CVR
Agreement. The Company disagrees with these claims and intends to work with the shareholders’ representative to resolve the claims. If the Company and the shareholders’ representative fail to agree, the claims may be resolved through
arbitration.  The Company is required by the CyDex CVR Agreement to dedicate at least five experienced full-time employee
equivalents per year to the acquired business and to invest at least $1.5 million per year, inclusive of such employee expenses, in the acquired business, through 2015, of which was achieved. 
At the closing of the acquisition, the Company recorded a $19.2 million contingent liability, inclusive of the $4.3 million payment in
January 2012, for amounts potentially due to holders of the CyDex CVRs. The initial fair value of the liability was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the estimated future cash flows from potential milestones and revenue
sharing. These cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of 21.6%. The liability will be periodically assessed based on events and circumstances related to the underlying milestones, and the change in fair value will be
recorded in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. The carrying amount of the liability may fluctuate significantly and actual amounts paid under the CVR agreements may be materially different than the carrying amount of the
liability. The fair value of the liability at December 31, 2011 was $16.5 million.  The components of the purchase price
allocation for CyDex are as follows (in thousands):   








 Purchase Consideration:
  




 Cash paid to CyDex shareholders
  
$
31,572
  

 Estimated fair value of contingent consideration
  
 
14,905
  

 Cash payable to CyDex shareholders
  
 
4,300
  


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase consideration
  
$
50,777
  


  
  
  
 
  65 


Table of Contents








 Allocation of Purchase Price:
  




 Cash
  
$
85
  

 Accounts receivable
  
 
1,202
  

 Inventory
  
 
2,414
  

 In-process research and development
  
 
3,200
  

 Intangible assets with definite lives
  
 
46,580
  

 Goodwill
  
 
14,194
  

 Other assets
  
 
1,311
  

 Liabilities assumed
  
 
(18,209
) 


  
  
  
 


  
$
50,777
  


  
  
  
 
 The acquired identified intangible assets with definite lives from the acquisition with CyDex are as
follows:   








 Acquired Intangible Assets (in thousands)
  
 
 

 Complete technology
  
$
14,643
  

 Trademark and trade name
  
 
2,537
  

 Customer relationships
  
 
29,400
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
46,580
  


  
  
  
 
 The weighted-average amortization period for the identified intangible assets with definite lives is 20
years.  The Company has allocated $3.2 million of the purchase price of CyDex to acquired In-Process Research and
Development (IPR&D). This amount represents the estimated fair value of CyDex’s two main proprietary products that have not yet reached technological feasibility and do not have future alternative use as of the date of the merger. The
valuation was based on a probability-weighted present value of the expected upfront and milestone payments. The probability of success takes into account the stages of completion and the risks surrounding successful development and commercialization
of the underlying product candidates. These cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of 21.5%. Management does not believe that any events have occurred that would impair the IPR&D at December 31, 2011. 
The valuation of the complete technology, or CyDex’s CAPTISOL technology, was based on a derivative of the discounted cash flow
method that estimated the present value of a hypothetical royalty stream derived via the licensing of similar technology. These projected cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of 20.5%. The valuation of the trademark
and trade name was based on the Relief from Royalty method using royalty rates paid in third-party licensing agreements involving similar trade names. These projected cash flows were then discounted to present value using a discount rate of 20.5%.
The valuation of the customer relationships was based on a discounted cash flow analysis incorporating the estimated future cash flows from these relationships during their assumed life of 20 years. These cash flows were then discounted to present
value using a discount rate of 21.5%.  Had the merger with CyDex been completed as of the beginning of 2011, the
Company’s pro forma results for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010 would have been as follows (unaudited):   












(in thousands, except per share data)
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 Revenue
  
$
30,226
  
 
$
23,727
  

 Operating loss
  
 
(1,591
) 
 
 
(32,403
) 

 Net income (loss)
  
 
9,148
  
 
 
(15,480
) 

 Basic and diluted earnings per share:
  



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
$
0.47
  
 
$
(0.91
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
$
0.00
  
 
$
0.12
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
0.47
  
 
$
(0.79
) 

 Basic and diluted weighted average shares
  
 
19,656
  
 
 
19,613
  

  66 


Table of Contents
The primary adjustments relate to interest expense on long-term debt, the loss of interest
income due to the timing of transaction related payments and amortization of intangible assets. The above pro forma information was determined based on historical results adjusted for the purchase price allocation and estimated related changes in
income associated with the merger of CyDex. 
5. Acquisition of Metabasis 
On January 27, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Metabasis. As a result, the Company gained a fully
funded partnership with Roche, additional pipeline assets and drug discovery technologies and resources. The Company paid $1.8 million in cash, or approximately $0.046 per Metabasis share, to Metabasis’ stockholders. In addition, Metabasis
stockholders received four tradable CVRs, one CVR from each of four respective series of CVRs, for each Metabasis share. The CVRs will entitle Metabasis stockholders to cash payments as frequently as every six months as cash is received by the
Company from proceeds from Metabasis’ partnership with Roche or the sale or partnering of any of the Metabasis drug development programs, among other triggering events. The Company has also committed to spend at least $8.0 million in new
research and development funding on the Metabasis programs within 42 months following the closing of the transaction.  The
components of the purchase price allocation for Metabasis are as follows:   








 Purchase Consideration:
  




 (in thousands)
  




 Cash paid to Metabasis shareholders
  
$
1,758
  

 Fair value of contingent value rights
  
 
9,142
  


  
  
  
 

 Total purchase consideration
  
$
10,900
  


  
  
  
 




 Allocation of Purchase Price:
  




 (in thousands)
  




 Cash acquired
  
$
376
  

 Other current assets
  
 
382
  

 Acquired in-process research and development
  
 
11,975
  

 Liabilities assumed
  
 
(1,833
) 


  
  
  
 


  
$
10,900
  


  
  
  
 
 There were no acquired identified intangible assets with definite lives from the acquisition with
Metabasis. The Company expensed approximately $0.3 million of transaction costs related to the acquisition.  The Company has
allocated $12.0 million of the purchase price of Metabasis to IPR&D. This amount represents the estimated fair value of various acquired in-process projects that have not yet reached technological feasibility and do not have future
alternative use as of the date of the merger. The amount is related to internal and partnered product candidates targeting a variety of indications and currently in the preclinical stage of development. Of the total amount, $2.8 million relates to a
fully funded partnership with Roche for hepatitis C, $3.0 million relates to an internal program for glucagon antagonists to treat type 2 diabetes, $2.5 million relates to an internal liver-targeted thyroid receptor B agonist (TR Beta) program, and
$3.7 million relates to various early stage programs. The estimated fair values of acquired IPR&D was based on the relative value of the grossed up trading price of each CVR that it is associated with the former Metabasis shareholders retaining
50% of the Glucagon, TR Beta and General CVR’s and 66% of the Roche CVR. The total value of $12.0 million was allocated based on the following percentages; Roche CVR—23%, Glucagon CVR—25%, TR Beta CVR—21% and General
CVR—31%.  In addition, at the closing of the acquisition, the Company recorded a $9.1 million contingent liability for
amounts potentially due to holders of CVRs. The initial fair value of the liability was determined using quoted 
  67 


Table of Contents

market prices of Metabasis common stock in active markets. The liability will continue to be marked-to-market at each reporting period based upon the quoted market prices of the underlying CVR,
and the change in fair value is recorded in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations. The carrying amount of the liability may fluctuate significantly based upon quoted market prices and actual amounts paid under the CVR agreements
may be materially different than the carrying amount of the liability. The fair value of the liability was $1.1 million and $0 for the period ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As a result, the Company recorded an increase in the
liability for contingent value rights of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 and a decrease in liability for contingent value rights of $9.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. 
Had the merger with Metabasis been completed as of the beginning of 2009, the Company’s pro forma results for 2010 and 2009 would
have been as follows (unaudited):   












(in thousands, except per share data)
  
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Revenue
  
$
23,538
  
 
$
55,424
  

 Operating loss
  
 
(30,308
) 
 
 
(15,821
) 

 Net loss
  
 
(13,535
) 
 
 
(7,966
) 

 Basic and diluted earnings per share:
  



 




 Continuing operations
  
$
(0.70
) 
 
$
(0.76
) 

 Discontinued operations
  
$
0.01
  
 
$
0.34
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
(0.69
) 
 
$
(0.42
) 

 Basic and diluted weighted average shares
  
 
19,613
  
 
 
18,863
  
 The primary adjustments relate to the loss of interest income due to the timing of transaction related
payments. The above pro forma information was determined based on historical results adjusted for the purchase price allocation and changes in income associated with the merger of Metabasis. 
6. Discontinued Operations 
Oncology Product Line  On September 7, 2006, the Company, Eisai Inc., a Delaware corporation and Eisai Co., Ltd., a Japanese company (together with Eisai Inc., “Eisai”), entered into a purchase agreement (the
“Oncology Purchase Agreement”) pursuant to which Eisai agreed to acquire all of the Company’s worldwide rights in and to the Company’s oncology products, including, among other things, all related inventory, equipment, records
and intellectual property, and assume certain liabilities as set forth in the Oncology Purchase Agreement. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized pre-tax gains of $3,000, $0.2 million and $1.0 million,
respectively, due to subsequent changes in certain estimates of assets and liabilities recorded as of the sale date.  The
Company agreed to indemnify Eisai, after the closing, for damages suffered by Eisai arising from any breach of any of the Company’s representations, warranties, covenants or obligations in the Oncology Purchase Agreement. The Company’s
obligation to indemnify Eisai extends beyond the closing up to, in some cases, 18 months or 36 months and, in other cases, until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. In a few instances, the Company’s obligation to indemnify
Eisai survives in perpetuity. The Company’s liability for any indemnification claim brought by Eisai is generally limited to $30.0 million. However, the Company’s obligation to provide indemnification on certain matters is not subject to
these indemnification limits. For example, the Company agreed to retain, and provide indemnification without limitation to Eisai for, all liabilities related to certain claims regarding promotional materials for the ONTAK and Targretin drug
products. Management cannot estimate the liabilities that may arise as a result of these matters and, therefore, no accrual has been recorded at December 31, 2011 and 2010. 
Upon the Oncology sale, the Company accrued for rebates, chargebacks, and other discounts related to Oncology products in the
distribution channel which had not sold-through at the time of the Oncology sale and 
  68 


Table of Contents

for which the Company retained the liability subsequent to the sale. These products expired at various dates through July 31, 2008. The Company’s accruals for Oncology rebates,
chargebacks, and other discounts total zero as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and are included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 
Additionally, and pursuant to the terms of the Oncology Purchase Agreement, the Company retained the liability for returns of product
from wholesalers that had been sold by the Company prior to the close of the transaction. Accordingly, as part of the accounting for the gain on the sale of the Oncology Product Line, the Company recorded a reserve for Oncology product returns.
Oncology products sold by the Company may be returned through a specified period subsequent to the product expiration date, but no later than July 31, 2009. The Company’s reserve for Oncology returns is zero as of December 31, 2011
and 2010.  AVINZA Product Line  In February 2007, Ligand and King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (King), entered into a purchase agreement (the “AVINZA Purchase Agreement”), pursuant to which King agreed to acquire all of the
Company’s rights in and to AVINZA in the United States, its territories and Canada, including, among other things, all AVINZA inventory, records and related intellectual property, and assume certain liabilities as set forth in the AVINZA
Purchase Agreement (collectively, the “Transaction”).  Pfizer, as successor to King also assumed Ligand’s
co-promote termination obligation to make payments to Organon based on net sales of AVINZA ($21.5 million and $30.9 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively). As Organon has not consented to the legal assignment of the co-promote
termination obligation from Ligand to Pfizer, as successor to King, Ligand remains liable to Organon in the event of default of this obligation. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company recognized pre-tax gains of
$0, $2.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively, due to subsequent changes in certain estimates of assets and liabilities recorded as of the sale date.  In addition to the assumption of existing royalty obligations, Pfizer, as successor to King is required to pay Ligand a royalty on AVINZA net sales. If calendar year net sales are less than $200 million,
the royalty payment will be 5% of all net sales. If calendar year net sales are greater than $200 million, the royalty payment will be 10% of all net sales less than $250 million, plus 15% of net sales greater than $250 million. Royalty revenues
were $4.2 million, $5.4 million, and $7.7 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Upon the AVINZA sale, the Company
accrued for rebates, chargebacks, and other discounts related to AVINZA products in the distribution channel which had not sold-through at the time of the AVINZA sale and for which the Company retained the liability subsequent to the sale. These
products expired at various dates through June 30, 2009. The Company’s accruals for AVINZA rebates, chargebacks, and other discounts total zero as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and are included in accrued liabilities in
the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.  Additionally, and pursuant to the terms of the AVINZA Purchase Agreement, the
Company retained the liability for returns of product from wholesalers that had been sold by the Company prior to the close of the transaction. Accordingly, as part of the accounting for the gain on the sale of AVINZA, the Company recorded a reserve
for AVINZA product returns. AVINZA products sold by the Company may be returned through a specified period subsequent to the product expiration date, but no later than December 31, 2009. The Company’s reserve for AVINZA returns is zero as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is included in accrued liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, in February 2011, the Company agreed to terms with a third party wholesaler for previously
recorded liabilities associated with AVINZA returns resulting in a reduction of accounts payable and corresponding gain on sale of AVINZA product line before income taxes of $2.1 million as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010.

  69 


Table of Contents
7. Investments 
As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of the Company’s investments have a contractual maturity of less than
one year. The following table summarizes the various investment categories (in thousands):   




















 
  
Cost
 
  
Grossunrealizedgains
 
  
Grossunrealizedlosses
 
 
Estimatedfair value
 

 December 31, 2011
  



  



  



 




 Certificates of deposit
  
$
10,000
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
10,000
  

 Certificates of deposit—restricted
  
 
1,341
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,341
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt securities
  
$
11,341
  
  
$
—  
  
  
$
—  
  
 
$
11,341
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 December 31, 2010
  



  



  



 




 U.S. government securities
  
$
2,031
  
  
$
9
  
  
 
($3
) 
 
$
2,037
  

 Certificates of deposit
  
 
5,062
  
  
 
98
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
5,160
  

 Corporate obligations
  
 
12,164
  
  
 
104
  
  
 
(114
) 
 
 
12,154
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
19,257
  
  
$
211
  
  
 
($117
) 
 
 
19,351
  

 Certificates of deposit—restricted
  
 
1,341
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
—  
  
 
 
1,341
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total debt securities
  
$
20,598
  
  
$
211
  
  
$
(117
) 
 
$
20,692
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 In July 2007, the Company purchased $5.0 million of commercial paper issued by Golden Key Ltd. The
investment was highly-rated and within the Company’s investment policy at the time of purchase, but during the third quarter of 2007, large credit rating agencies downgraded the quality of this security. In addition, as a result of not meeting
certain liquidity covenants, the assets of Golden Key Ltd. were assigned to a trustee who established a committee of the largest senior credit holders to determine the next steps. Subsequently, Golden Key Ltd. defaulted on its obligation to settle
the security on the stated maturity date of October 10, 2007. During 2010, the assets of Golden Key Ltd. were sold through an auction process and, as a result, the Company received a final cash distribution of approximately $2.9 million
resulting in a gain of $1.4 million, which is included in other income, net.  There were no other material realized gains or
losses on sales of available-for-sale securities for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.  8. Other Balance Sheet
Details  Other current assets consist of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Prepaid expenses
  
$
905
  
  
$
578
  

 Advanced manufacturing payments
  
 
312
  
  
 
—  
  

 Other receivables
  
 
127
  
  
 
142
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
1,344
  
  
$
720
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

  70 


Table of Contents
Accrued liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 
 












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Compensation
  
$
1,806
  
  
$
2,201
  

 Legal
  
 
355
  
  
 
330
  

 Lease exit
  
 
2,026
  
  
 
2,076
  

 Other
  
 
4,075
  
  
 
4,252
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
8,262
  
  
$
8,859
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Other Long-Term Liabilities  Other long-term liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
  
2010
 

 Deferred rent
  
$
   —  
  
  
$
   601
  

 Deposits
  
 
388
  
  
 
388
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
388
  
  
$
989
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 

9. AVINZA Co-Promotion 
In February 2003, the Company and Organon Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (Organon) announced that they had entered into an
agreement for the co-promotion of AVINZA. Subsequently in January 2006, the Company signed an agreement with Organon that terminated the AVINZA co-promotion agreement between the two companies and returned AVINZA co-promotion rights to the Company.
In consideration of the early termination, the Company agreed to make quarterly royalty payments to Organon equal to 6.5% of AVINZA net sales through December 31, 2012 and thereafter 6.0% through patent expiration, currently anticipated to be
November of 2017.  In February 2007, the Company and King executed an agreement pursuant to which King acquired all of the
Company’s rights in and to AVINZA. King also assumed the Company’s co-promote termination obligation to make royalty payments to Organon based on net sales of AVINZA. For the fourth quarter of 2006 and through the closing of the AVINZA
sale transaction, amounts owed by the Company to Organon on net reported sales of AVINZA did not result in current period expense, but instead were charged against the co-promote termination liability. The liability was adjusted at each reporting
period to fair value and was recognized, utilizing the interest method, as additional co-promote termination charges for that period at a rate of 15%, the discount rate used to initially value this component of the termination liability. 
In connection with King’s assumption of this obligation, Organon did not consent to the legal assignment of the co-promote
termination obligation to King. Accordingly, the Company remains liable to Organon in the event of King’s default of the obligation. Therefore, the Company recorded an asset as of February 26, 2007 to recognize King’s assumption of
the obligation, while continuing to carry the co-promote termination liability in the Company’s consolidated financial statements to recognize its legal obligation as primary obligor to Organon. This asset represents a non-interest bearing
receivable for future payments to be made by King and is recorded at its fair value. The receivable and liability will remain equal and adjusted each quarter for changes in the fair value of the obligation including for any changes in the estimate
of future net AVINZA product sales. This receivable will be assessed on a quarterly basis for impairment (e.g. in the event King defaults on the assumed obligation to pay Organon). 
On an annual basis, management reviews the carrying value of the co-promote termination liability. Due to assumptions and judgments
inherent in determining the estimates of future net AVINZA sales through November 2017, the actual amount of net AVINZA sales used to determine the current fair value of the Company’s co-promote termination asset and liability may be materially
different from current estimates. 
  71 


Table of Contents
A summary of the co-promote termination liability as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is
as follows (in thousands):   








 Net present value of payments based on estimated future net AVINZA product sales as of December 31, 2010
  
$
40,775
  

 Assumed payments made by King or assignee
  
 
(5,386
) 

 Fair value adjustments due to passage of time
  
 
(4,504
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total co-promote termination liability as of December 31, 2010
  
 
30,885
  

 Assumed payments made by King or assignee
  
 
(4,155
) 

 Fair value adjustments due to passage of time
  
 
(5,278
) 


  
  
  
 

 Total co-promote termination liability as of December 31, 2011
  
 
21,452
  

 Less: current portion of co-promote termination liability as of December 31, 2011
  
 
6,197
  


  
  
  
 

 Long-term portion of co-promote termination liability as of December 31, 2011
  
$
15,255
  


  
  
  
 

10. Commitments and Contingencies 
Property Leases  In August 2009, the Company entered into a lease termination agreement for its 82,500 square foot office and laboratory facility in San Diego, California, which had a lease term through November 2021.
Under the terms of the termination agreement, the Company paid a termination fee of $14.3 million as follows: $4.5 million was paid upon signing, $4.5 million was paid in July 2010 and $5.3 million was paid in April 2011. In addition, the Company
entered into a lease for a period of 27 months commencing October 2009, for premises consisting of approximately 30,000 square feet of office and lab space located in San Diego to serve as its corporate headquarters. Under the terms of the lease,
the Company pays a basic annual rent of $1.2 million (subject to an annual fixed percentage increase, as set forth in the agreement), plus other normal and necessary expenses associated with the lease. In October 2011, the Company entered into an
extension of the lease through June 30, 2012, for a portion of the premises. Under the terms of the extension, beginning on January 1, 2012, the Company will pay monthly rent of $26,448, plus other normal and necessary expenses associated
with the lease.  On September 5, 2011, the Company entered into a new lease for a period of 84 months commencing
July 1, 2012, for premises consisting of approximately 16,500 square feet of office and laboratory space located in San Diego to serve as its new corporate headquarters. Pursuant to the terms of the lease, annual base rent will be approximately
$0.5 million, subject to a 3% annual increase.  The Company leases approximately 1,500 square feet of laboratory space located
at the Bioscience and Technology Business Center in Lawrence, Kansas leased through December 31, 2014. Pursuant to the terms of the lease, annual base rent will be approximately $0.1 million. 
The Company also leases an office and research facility in San Diego, California under an operating lease arrangement through July 2015.
The Company fully vacated this facility in February 2008. The lease agreement provides for increases in annual rents based on changes in the Consumer Price Index or fixed percentage increases ranging from 3% to 7%. Commencing January 2008, the
Company sublet this facility through July 2015. The sublease agreement provides for a 3% increase in annual rents. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the lease exit obligation related to this lease was $2.8 million and $3.6 million,
respectively.  The Company leases approximately 99,000 square feet in three facilities in Cranbury, New Jersey under leases
that expire in 2016. The leases for the New Jersey facilities provide generally for scheduled rent increases, options to extend the leases with certain changes to the terms of the lease agreement, and refurbishment allowances. Commencing September
2009, the Company sublet 5,100 square feet of space through August 2014. As of December 31, 2011, the Company expects to receive $0.2 million in aggregate future lease payments over the duration of the sublease agreement. 
  72 


Table of Contents
In September 2010, the Company ceased use of its facility located in New Jersey. As a
result, during the quarter ended September 30, 2010, the Company recorded lease exit costs of $9.7 million for costs related to the difference between the remaining lease obligations of the abandoned operating leases, which run through August
2016, and management’s estimate of potential future sublease income, discounted to present value. In addition, the Company wrote-off property and equipment with a net book value of approximately $5.4 million related to the facility closure.
 As of December 31, 2011, annual minimum payments due under the Company’s office lease obligations and annual
minimum rentals expected to be received by the Company under subleases are as follows (in thousands):   
















 Year ending December 31,
  
Operatingleases
 
  
SubleaseIncome
 
  
NetPayments
 

 2012
  
$
5,603
  
  
$
971
  
  
$
4,632
  

 2013
  
 
5,507
  
  
 
1,173
  
  
 
4,334
  

 2014
  
 
5,588
  
  
 
1,170
  
  
 
4,418
  

 2015
  
 
4,640
  
  
 
655
  
  
 
3,985
  

 2016
  
 
2,421
  
  
 
117
  
  
 
2,304
  

 Thereafter
  
 
1,276
  
  
 
—  
  
  
 
1,276
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 


  
$
25,035
  
  
$
4,086
  
  
$
20,949
  


  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 Total rent expense under all office leases for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.2 million, $2.8 million and
$5.1 million, respectively. The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis. Deferred rent at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $0 and $0.6 million, respectively, and is included in other long-term liabilities. 
Product Liability  The
Company’s business exposes it to potential product liability risks. The Company’s products also may need to be recalled to address regulatory issues. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against the Company
could result in payment of significant amounts of money and divert management’s attention from running the business. Some of the compounds the Company is investigating may be harmful to humans. For example, retinoids as a class are known to
contain compounds which can cause birth defects. The Company may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or the insurance may not provide adequate protection in the case of a product liability claim. To the extent that product
liability insurance, if available, does not cover potential claims, the Company would be required to self-insure the risks associated with such claims. No claims existed at December 31, 2011 and 2010. No reserve for any potential losses under
product liability claims has been recorded at December 31, 2011 and 2010.  Litigation 
In February 2009, the Company reached a settlement with The Rockefeller University whereby the parties resolved all disputes that have
arisen between them. As part of the settlement, the Company agreed to pay Rockefeller, $5.0 million immediately upon settlement, $1.0 million on or before February 10, 2010, $1.0 million on or before February 10, 2011, and 50% of any
milestone payment received by the Company and 5.88% to 7.0% of certain royalties received by the Company, in each case pursuant to an agreement with SmithKline Beecham Corporation (now known as GlaxoSmithKline) entered into on December 29,
1994. The Company also agreed to pay Rockefeller 1.5% of world-wide net sales of LGD-4665 as certain payments are received by the Company pursuant to its agreement with SmithKline Beecham Corporation entered into on December 17, 2008. As of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company has recorded a liability of $0 and $1.0 million, respectively, related to the settlement, which is included in current portion of accrued litigation settlement costs in the accompanying balance sheets.

  73 


Table of Contents
In addition, from time to time the Company is subject to various lawsuits and claims with
respect to matters arising out of the normal course of its business. If, based on the Company’s assessment, it is probable that a liability has been incurred and can be reasonably estimated, then such loss is accrued and charged to operations.
Management believes all costs that can be reasonably estimated will not exceed the related existing accruals. 
11. Common Stock Subject to Conditional Redemption—Pfizer Settlement Agreement 
In April 1996, the Company and Pfizer entered into a settlement agreement with respect to a lawsuit filed in December
1994 by the Company against Pfizer. In connection with a collaborative research agreement the Company entered into with Pfizer in 1991, Pfizer purchased shares of the Company’s common stock. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, at the
option of either the Company or Pfizer, milestone and royalty payments owed to the Company can be satisfied by Pfizer by transferring to the Company shares of the Company’s common stock at the exchange ratio of $74.25 per share. The remaining
common stock issued and outstanding to Pfizer following the settlement was reclassified as common stock subject to conditional redemption (between liabilities and equity) since Pfizer has the option to settle milestone and royalties payments owed to
the Company with the Company’s shares, and such option is not within the Company’s control. In March 2009, the Company earned a milestone from Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer). In April 2009, pursuant to the Company’s 1991 research agreement and
1996 settlement agreement with Pfizer, Pfizer elected to pay the milestone by returning 53,889 shares of stock it owns in the Company, which at the date the milestone was earned had a market value of $0.9 million. Ligand retired the tendered shares
in May 2009. The difference between the fair value of the shares tendered and the carrying value of such shares based on the contractual exchange ratio, approximately $3.1 million, was credited to additional paid-in capital. The Company is
entitled to royalties on future sales from Pfizer, which pursuant to the 1996 settlement agreement, Pfizer may elect to pay by returning shares of stock it owns in Ligand. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the remaining shares of the
Company’s common stock that could be redeemed totaled approximately 112,371 and are reflected at the exchange ratio price of $74.25. 
12. Stockholders’ Equity 
Stock Plans  On May 29, 2009, the Company’s stockholders approved the amendment and restatement of the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Amended 2002 Plan”). The Company’s 2002
Stock Incentive Plan was amended to (i) increase the number of shares available for issuance under the Amended 2002 Plan by 1,266,666 shares, (ii) revise the list of performance criteria that may be used by the compensation committee for
purposes of granting awards under the Amended 2002 Plan that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and (iii) eliminate the automatic option grant program
for non-employee directors, the director fee stock issuance program and the director fee option grant program, which programs have been superseded by the Company’s amended and restated Director Compensation Policy. As of December 31, 2011,
there were 0.7 million shares available for future option grants or direct issuance under the Amended 2002 Plan.  The
Company grants options and awards to employees, non-employee consultants, and non-employee directors. Only new shares of common stock are issued upon the exercise of stock options. Non-employee directors are accounted for as employees. Options and
restricted stock granted to certain directors vest in equal monthly installments over one year from the date of grant. Options granted to employees vest 1/8 on the six month anniversary of the date of grant, and 1/48 each month thereafter for
forty-two months. All option awards generally expire ten years from the date of grant.  Stock-based compensation cost for
awards to employees and non-employee directors is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period until the last tranche vests. Compensation cost for consultant awards is recognized over each separate tranche’s vesting period. The
Company recognized compensation expense of $3.4 million, $2.3 million and $3.4 million for 2011, 2010 and 2000, respectively, associated with option awards, 
  74 


Table of Contents

restricted stock and an equitable adjustment of employee stock options. The compensation expense related to share-based compensation arrangements is recorded as components of research and
development expenses ($1.0 million, $1.2 million and $2.0 million) and general and administrative expenses ($2.4 million, $1.1 million and $1.4 million) for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There was no
deferred tax benefit recognized in connection with these costs.  The fair-value for options that were awarded to employees and
directors was estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option valuation model with the following weighted average assumptions:   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Risk-free interest rate
  
 
2.5
% 
 
 
2.7
% 
 
 
2.1
% 

 Dividend yield
  
 
—
  
 
 
—
  
 
 
—
  

 Expected volatility
  
 
69
% 
 
 
72
% 
 
 
74
% 

 Expected term
  
 
6 years
  
 
 
6 years
  
 
 
6 years
  
 The expected term of the employee and non-employee director options is the estimated weighted-average
period until exercise or cancellation of vested options (forfeited unvested options are not considered) based on historical experience. The expected term for consultant awards is the remaining period to contractual expiration. 
Volatility is a measure of the expected amount of variability in the stock price over the expected life of an option expressed as a
standard deviation. In selecting this assumption, the Company used the historical volatility of the Company’s stock price over a period equal to the expected term.  Following is a summary of the Company’s stock option plan activity and related information:   




















 
  
Shares
 
 
WeightedAverageExercisePrice
 
  
WeightedAverageRemainingContractualTerm inYears
 
  
AggregateIntrinsicValue(In 
thousands)
 

 Balance at December 31, 2008
  
 
505,013
  
 
 
39.3
  
  
 
6.63
  
  
 
81
  

 Granted
  
 
275,308
  
 
 
15.84
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(3,541
) 
 
 
12.18
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(52,581
) 
 
 
24
  
  



  




 Cancelled
  
 
(55,752
) 
 
 
50.46
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
 
668,447
  
 
 
30.1
  
  
 
6.88
  
  
 
31
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Granted
  
 
248,202
  
 
 
9.87
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(130,183
) 
 
 
14.31
  
  



  




 Cancelled
  
 
(145,205
) 
 
 
48.26
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
 
641,261
  
 
 
21.36
  
  
 
7
  
  
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Granted
  
 
636,580
  
 
 
9.98
  
  



  




 Exercised
  
 
(6,072
) 
 
 
9.51
  
  



  




 Forfeited
  
 
(50,782
) 
 
 
11.95
  
  



  




 Cancelled
  
 
(74,941
) 
 
 
34.55
  
  



  





  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
 
1,146,046
  
 
 
25.77
  
  
 
7.96
  
  
 
1,489
  


  
  
  
 
 



  



  




 Exercisable at December 31, 2011
  
 
487,012
  
 
 
20.23
  
  
 
6.78
  
  
 
339
  

 Options vested and expected to vest as of December 31, 2011
  
 
1,086,693
  
 
 
14.62
  
  
 
7.97
  
  
 
1,489
  

  75 


Table of Contents
The weighted-average grant-date fair value of all stock options granted during 2011 was
$6.34 per share. The total intrinsic value of all options exercised during 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $10,000, $0 and $2,000, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, there was $3.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost
related to nonvested stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.97 years.  Cash
received from options exercised in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $58,000, $0 and $43,000, respectively. There is no current tax benefit related to options exercised because of Net Operating Losses (NOLs) for which a full valuation allowance has been
established.  Following is a further breakdown of the options outstanding as of December 31, 2011: 
 
























 Range of exercise prices
  
Optionsoutstanding
 
  
Weightedaverageremaining 
lifein years
 
  
Weighted averageexercise
price
 
  
Optionsexercisable
 
  
Weighted averageexercise price
 

 $0.01 – $ 9.97
  
 
357,469
  
  
 
8.66
  
  
$
9.79
  
  
 
104,943
  
  
$
9.66
  

   9.98 – 10.05
  
 
330,729
  
  
 
8.98
  
  
 
10.05
  
  
 
56,147
  
  
 
10.05
  

 10.06 – 16.14
  
 
245,114
  
  
 
7.75
  
  
 
13.95
  
  
 
117,667
  
  
 
15.84
  

 16.15 – 87.36
  
 
211,362
  
  
 
5.48
  
  
 
30.10
  
  
 
206,589
  
  
 
30.31
  

 87.37 – 87.96
  
 
1,666
  
  
 
2.44
  
  
 
87.96
  
  
 
1,666
  
  
 
87.96
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  




   0.01 – 87.96
  
 
1,146,340
  
  
 
7.97
  
  
 
14.62
  
  
 
487,012
  
  
 
20.23
  


  
  
  
 
  



  



  
  
  
 
  



 Restricted Stock Activity  The following is a summary of the Company’s restricted stock activity and related information:   












 
  
Shares
 
 
Weighted-AverageGrant Date 
FairValue
 

 Nonvested at December 31, 2008
  
 
99,778
  
 
$
30.84
  

 Granted
  
 
59,743
  
 
 
15.78
  

 Vested
  
 
(49,707
) 
 
 
36.84
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(14,099
) 
 
 
21.06
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested at December 31, 2009
  
 
95,715
  
 
 
17.93
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Granted
  
 
60,349
  
 
 
9.6
  

 Vested
  
 
(65,375
) 
 
 
16.7
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(28,543
) 
 
 
12.56
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested at December 31, 2010
  
 
62,146
  
 
 
13.6
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Granted
  
 
119,826
  
 
 
10.07
  

 Vested
  
 
(59,936
) 
 
 
12.47
  

 Forfeited
  
 
(6,530
) 
 
 
11.71
  


  
  
  
 
 




 Nonvested at December 31, 2011
  
 
115,506
  
 
 
10.63
  


  
  
  
 
 



 Restricted stock awards generally vest over three years. As of December 31, 2011, unrecognized
compensation cost related to non-vested stock awards amounted to $0.7 million. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6 years.  Employee Stock Purchase Plan  The Company’s Employee Stock Purchase
Plan, as amended and restated (the “Amended ESPP”) allows participants to purchase up to 1,250 shares of Ligand common stock during each offering period, but in no event 
  76 


Table of Contents

may a participant purchase more than 1,250 shares of common stock during any calendar year. The length of each offering period is six months, and employees are eligible to participate in the
first offering period beginning after their hire date.  The Amended ESPP allows employees to purchase a limited amount of
common stock at the end of each six month period at a price equal to 85% of the lesser of fair market value on either the start date of the period or the last trading day of the period (the “Lookback Provision”). The 15% discount and the
Lookback Provision make the Amended ESPP compensatory. There were 7,611, 14,888 and 22,443 shares of common stock issued under the Amended ESPP in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting in an expense of $13,000, $0.1 million and $0.1
million, respectively. For shares purchased under the Company’s Amended ESPP, a weighted-average expected volatility of 18%, 34% and 27% was used for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expected term for shares issued under the ESPP is six
months. As of December 31, 2011, 121,083 shares of common stock had been issued under the Amended ESPP to employees and 97,291 shares are available for future issuance. Preferred Stock  The Company has authorized 5,000,000 shares of preferred
stock, of which 1,600,000 are designated Series A Participating Preferred Stock (the “Preferred Stock”). The Board of Directors of Ligand has the authority to issue the Preferred Stock in one or more series and to fix the designation,
powers, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the shares of each such series, including the dividend rights, dividend rate, conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption (including sinking fund
provisions), liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any such series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights and preferences of Preferred Stock may in all respects be superior and prior to the rights
of the common stock. The issuance of the Preferred Stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common stock or adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of the
common stock and could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Ligand. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, there are no preferred shares issued or outstanding. 
Shareholder Rights Plan 
In October 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors renewed the Company’s stockholder rights plan, which was originally adopted
and has been in place since September 2002, and which expired on September 13, 2006, through the adoption of a new 2006 Stockholder Rights Plan (the “2006 Rights Plan”). The 2006 Rights Plan provides for a dividend distribution of one
preferred share purchase right (a “Right”) on each outstanding share of the Company’s common stock. Each Right entitles stockholders to buy 1/1000th of a share of Ligand Series A Participating Preferred Stock at an exercise price of
$100. The Rights will become exercisable if a person or group announces an acquisition of 20% or more of the Company’s common stock, or announces commencement of a tender offer for 20% or more of the common stock. In that event, the Rights
permit stockholders, other than the acquiring person, to purchase the Company’s common stock having a market value of twice the exercise price of the Rights, in lieu of the Preferred stock. In addition, in the event of certain business
combinations, the Rights permit the purchase of the common stock of an acquiring person at a 50% discount. Rights held by the acquiring person become null and void in each case. The 2006 Rights Plan expires in 2016. 
Warrants  As of
December 31, 2011, warrants to purchase 144,606 shares of the Company’s common stock were outstanding with an exercise price of $51.54 per share and an expiration date of April 2012. The warrants were assumed in the acquisition of
Pharmacopeia, Inc. As of December 31, 2011, 163,568 warrants with an exercise price of $179.40 per warrant and an
expiration date of April 2013 were outstanding to purchase an aggregate of 129,360 shares of the Company’s common 
  77 


Table of Contents

stock. If exercised, these warrants are also entitled to receive $0.1 million in cash and 981,411 of each of the Company’s four contingent value rights issued to Neurogen shareholders in
December 2009. The series of warrants was assumed in the acquisition of Neurogen Corporation.  Share Repurchases 
In March 2007, the Board of Directors authorized up to $100.0 million in share repurchases over the subsequent 12 months. Through
February 2008, the Company repurchased 1.1 million shares of its common stock totaling $41.2 million.  On June 15,
2010, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to $10.0 million of its common stock from time to time in privately negotiated and open market transactions for a period of up to two years, subject
to the Company’s evaluation of market conditions, applicable legal requirements and other factors. The Company is not obligated to acquire common stock under this program and the program may be suspended at any time. Through December 31,
2011, the Company repurchased 16,905 shares of its common stock totaling $0.1 million.  Share Reserves 
As of December 31, 2011, the Company had 0.7 million shares reserved for future issuance related to stock options, stock awards,
stock purchase plan and warrants.  Reverse Stock Split  On November 19, 2010, following approval from the Company’s stockholders at a special meeting of stockholders on September 9, 2010, the Company announced a 1-for-6 reverse stock split of
its common stock. Accordingly, all share, warrant, option and per share information for all periods presented has been restated to account for the effect of the reverse stock split. 
13. Income Taxes 
At December 31, 2011, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards set to expire through 2031 of
$456.0 million and $165.9 million of state net operating loss carryforwards. We also had $16.4 million of federal research and development credit carryforwards, $1.2 million of which expired at the beginning of 2011, with the remainder
expiring through 2027, leaving $15.2 million remaining going into 2012. We have $10.3 million of California and New Jersey research and development credit carryforwards that have no expiration date. 
Pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 382, use of net operating loss and credit carryforwards may be limited if the Company
experiences a cumulative change in ownership of greater than 50% in a moving three-year period. Ownership changes could impact the Company’s ability to utilize net operating loss and credit carryforwards remaining at an ownership change date.
The Company has not updated its Section 382 study since 2007. The utilization of the net operating losses may be subject to limitation under Internal Revenue Codes Section 382. 
  78 


Table of Contents
The components of the income tax benefit for continuing operations are as follows (in
thousands):   
















 
  
Year Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Current Benefit:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
$
520
  
 
 
($27,685
) 
 
 
$23,533
  

 State
  
 
139
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
659
  
 
 
(27,685
) 
 
 
(23,533
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred Benefit:
  



 



 




 Federal
  
 
(10,679
) 
 
 
25,068
  
 
 
(25,068
) 

 State
  
 
(3,105
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Foreign
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
($13,125
) 
 
 
($2,617
) 
 
$
(1,535
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31,
2011 and 2010 are shown below. A valuation allowance has been recognized to offset the net deferred tax assets as management believes realization of such assets is uncertain as of December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. The change in valuation
allowance was a decrease of $15.4 million for 2011 and an increase of $30.6 million and $0.8 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively.   












 
  
December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 

 
  
(in thousands)
 

 Deferred assets:
  



 




 Net operating loss carryforwards
  
$
164,345
  
 
$
157,395
  

 Research and AMT credit carryforwards
  
 
22,163
  
 
 
23,182
  

 Fixed assets and intangibles
  
 
21,674
  
 
 
17,824
  

 Accrued expenses
  
 
1,467
  
 
 
6,697
  

 Present value of AVINZA royalties
  
 
13,259
  
 
 
14,586
  

 Organon termination asset
  
 
(11,012
) 
 
 
(11,937
) 

 Organon termination liability
  
 
11,012
  
 
 
11,937
  

 Organon royalty obligation
  
 
582
  
 
 
570
  

 Deferred rent
  
 
3,770
  
 
 
—  
  

 Deferred sale leaseback
  
 
—  
  
 
 
658
  

 Lease termination costs
  
 
369
  
 
 
4,244
  

 Capital loss carryforwards
  
 
501
  
 
 
751
  

 Other
  
 
2,561
  
 
 
2,681
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
230,691
  
 
 
228,588
  

 Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets
  
 
(213,161
) 
 
 
(225,748
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net deferred tax assets
  
$
17,530
  
 
$
2,840
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Deferred tax liabilities:
  



 




 Identified intangibles
  
$
(17,530
) 
 
$
—  
  

 Identified indefinite lived intangibles
  
 
(2,285
) 
 
 
(372
) 


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Total
  
$
(2,285
) 
 
$
2,468
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 For 2011 and 2010, stock option deductions did not impact the valuation allowance through paid-in
capital. Other changes to the valuation allowance allocated directly to other comprehensive income (loss) are related to unrealized gains of $0 million, $0.1 million and $0.01 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. 
  79 


Table of Contents
A reconciliation of income taxes from continuing operations to the amount computed by
applying the statutory federal income tax rate to the net loss from continuing operations is summarized as follows:   
















 
  
Years Ended December 31,
 

 
  
2011
 
 
2010
 
 
2009
 

 Amounts computed at statutory federal rate
  
 
$998
  
 
 
$5,236
  
 
 
$3,387
  

 State taxes net of federal benefit
  
 
(2
) 
 
 
(2
)
 
 
234
  

 Meals & entertainment
  
 
(9
) 
 
 
(6
) 
 
 
(10
) 

 Acquisition related transaction costs
  
 
(37
) 
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 In process R&D
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(451
) 
 
 
(136
) 

 Therapeutic grant
  
 
—  
  
 
 
665
  
 
 
—  
  

 Inputed interest
  
 
(255
)
 
 
(321
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Roche collaboration
  
 
—  
  
 
 
(1,437
) 
 
 
—  
  

 Contingent value rights
  
 
(481
) 
 
 
3,108
  
 
 
—  
  

 Stock-based compensation
  
 
(597
) 
 
 
(510
) 
 
 
(1,144
) 

 Expired NOLs
  
 
(678
) 
 
 
(678
) 
 
 
(678
) 


  



 



 




 Expired research and development credits
  
 
(1,200
) 
 
 
(543
) 
 
 
(887
) 

 Change in uncertain tax positions
  
 
—  
  
 
 
28,108
  
 
 
(24,116
) 

 Carry back claims
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
25,651
  

 Change in valuation allowance
  
 
15,427
  
 
 
(30,557
) 
 
 
(775
) 

 Other
  
 
(41
) 
 
 
5
  
 
 
9
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 


  
 
$13,125
  
 
 
$2,617
  
 
 
$1,535
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   The Company accounts for income taxes by evaluating a probability threshold that a tax
position must meet before a financial statement benefit is recognized. The minimum threshold is a tax position that is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the applicable taxing authority, including resolution of any related
appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The Company’s remaining liabilities for uncertain tax positions are presented net of the deferred tax asset balances on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
 A reconciliation of the amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows (in thousands):
  








 Balance at December 31, 2009
  
$
34,026
  

 Reductions for tax positions related to prior years
  
 
(25,205
) 

 Balance at December 31, 2010
  
$
8,821
  


  
  
  
 

 Additions based on tax positions related to the current year
  
 
—
  

 Reductions for tax positions of prior years
  
 
(211
) 


  
  
  
 

 Balance at December 31, 2011
  
$
8,610
  


  
  
  
 

  80 


Table of Contents
Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2010 is $8.6
million of tax benefits that, if recognized would result in adjustments to the related deferred tax assets and valuation allowance and not affect the Company’s effective tax. 
The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. As of December 31, 2011,
there was no accrued interest related to uncertain tax positions. 
14. Summary of Unaudited Quarterly Financial Information 
The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2011
and 2010 (in thousands).   




















 
  
Quarter ended
 

 
  
31-Mar
 
 
30-Jun
 
 
30-Sep
 
 
31-Dec
 

 2011
  



 



 



 




 Total revenues
  
$
3,896
  
 
$
7,463
  
 
$
5,741
  
 
$
12,937
  

 Total operating costs and expenses
  
 
5,805
  
 
 
8,699
  
 
 
9,416
  
 
 
8,517
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
13,585
  
 
 
(141
) 
 
 
(22
) 
 
 
(297
) 

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
10,028
  
 
 
(914
) 
 
 
(3,756
) 
 
 
4,815
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
4
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  

 Net income (loss)
  
$
10,032
  
 
 
($914
) 
 
 
(3,756
) 
 
 
4,815
  

 Basic and diluted per share amounts:
  



 



 



 




 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
0.51
  
 
 
(0.05
) 
 
 
(0.19
) 
 
 
0.24
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
$
0.51
  
 
 
($0.05
) 
 
 
($0.19
) 
 
$
0.24
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares—basic
  
 
19,623
  
 
 
19,650
  
 
 
19,673
  
 
 
19,675
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares—diluted
  
 
19,623
  
 
 
19,650
  
 
 
19,673
  
 
 
19,738
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 2010
  



 



 



 




 Total revenues
  
$
5,958
  
 
$
5,838
  
 
$
7,802
  
 
$
3,940
  

 Total operating costs and expenses
  
 
10,410
  
 
 
9,892
  
 
 
23,903
  
 
 
10,328
  

 Income tax benefit (expense)
  
 
(274
) 
 
 
(625
) 
 
 
(419
) 
 
 
3,936
  

 Income (loss) from continuing operations
  
 
(2,989
) 
 
 
(290
) 
 
 
(11,855
) 
 
 
2,348
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
239
  
 
 
7
  
 
 
12
  
 
 
2,155
  

 Net income (loss)
  
 
($2,750
) 
 
 
($283
) 
 
 
($11,843
) 
 
$
4,503
  

 Basic and diluted per share amounts:
  



 



 



 




 Loss from continuing operations
  
 
(0.15
) 
 
 
(0.01
) 
 
 
(0.60
) 
 
 
0.12
  

 Discontinued operations
  
 
0.01
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
—  
  
 
 
0.11
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Net loss
  
 
($0.14
) 
 
 
($0.01
) 
 
 
($0.60
) 
 
$
0.23
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares—basic
  
 
19,576
  
 
 
19,609
  
 
 
19,630
  
 
 
19,631
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

 Weighted average shares—diluted
  
 
19,576
  
 
 
19,609
  
 
 
19,630
  
 
 
19,636
  


  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 

15. Sale Leaseback 
In October 2006, the Company entered into an agreement for the sale of its real property located in San Diego,
California for a purchase price of $47.6 million. This property, with a net book value of $14.5 million, included one building totaling approximately 82,500 square feet, the land on which the building is situated, and two adjacent vacant lots. As
part of the sale transaction, the Company agreed to lease back the building for a period of 15 years. 
  81 


Table of Contents
The Company recognized an immediate pre-tax gain on the sale transaction of $3.1 million in
2006 and deferred a gain of $29.5 million on the sale of the building. The deferred gain was being recognized as an offset to operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 15 year term of the lease at a rate of approximately $2.0 million per
year.  In August 2009, the Company entered into a lease termination agreement for this building. As a result, the Company
recognized an additional $20.4 million of accretion of deferred gain during the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and recognized the remaining balance of the deferred gain through the term of its building lease, which expired in December 2011.
The amount of the deferred gain recognized for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $1.7 million, $1.7 million and $21.9 million, respectively. 
16. Debt obligations 
In January 2011, the Company entered into a $20 million Loan and Security Agreement (the “Oxford Loan”) with
Oxford Finance Corporation (“Oxford”). Under the terms of the Oxford Loan agreement, the Company will make interest only payments for one year at a fixed rate of 8.64%, with an option to extend the interest only payments for an
additional year. Subsequent to the interest only payments, the note will amortize with principal and interest payments due through the remaining term of the loan. The loan term, including interest only payments, is 42 months.
If the Company prepays the Oxford Loan after January 24, 2012, the Company must pay Oxford an additional amount equal to 1.0%
of the principal amount of the term loan prepaid.  Upon final repayment of the Oxford Loan on the maturity date, by
prepayment, or upon acceleration of the Oxford Loan, the Company also must make an additional final payment of $1.2 million, which is being accreted over the term of the loan. To secure the Company’s repayment obligations under the Oxford
Loan, Oxford obtained a first priority security interest in all of the Company’s assets, excluding intellectual property. 
On January 23, 2012, the Company and Oxford Finance LLC amended the Loan and Security Agreement (the “Amended Loan and Security
Agreement”). The Amended Loan and Security Agreement increased the secured term loan credit facility from $20 million up to $30 million; the Company immediately borrowed $7.5 million of the additionally-authorized $10 million against two
Secured Promissory Notes. The Company has the right until April 30, 2012 to elect to borrow the remaining available $2.5 million. The additional $7.5 million loan bears interest at (and the additional $2.5 million loan would bear interest
at) a fixed rate equal to the greater of (i) 8.81% per year and (ii) the sum of (a) 8.34% plus (b) the 3-month LIBOR rate reported in The Wall Street Journal three business days before the loan amounts are funded to the
Company, which interest, along with amortized principal, is payable on a monthly basis. The Company must also make an additional final payment at maturity equal to 6% of the total amount borrowed under the Amended Loan and Security
Agreement. Amortization of the entire $27.5 million due to Oxford commences on March 1, 2013 and the maturity date of the term loans is August 1, 2014, and the other material terms of the Loan and Security Agreement remain unchanged.
 In March 2011, the Company entered into a Loan and Security Agreement, or the Commercial Loan, with its commercial bank,
Square 1 Bank, or Square 1. The Commercial Loan established a cash-collateralized revolving line of credit facility under which Square 1 agreed to loan up to $5.0 million to the Company. The Company immediately borrowed the full $5.0 million.
 In April 2011, the Company entered into an amended Loan and Security Agreement (the “Square 1 Amended Loan”)
with Square 1. The Square 1 Amended Loan increased a cash-collateralized revolving line of credit facility by $5.0 million under which Square 1 agreed to loan up to $10.0 million to the Company. The Company immediately borrowed the additional
$5.0 million. All outstanding amounts under the Agreement bear interest at a floating rate equal to 200 basis points above the prime rate. Interest is payable on a monthly basis. 
  82 


Table of Contents

The maturity date of the revolving line of credit facility is March 29, 2012. In January 2012, the Company repaid $4.5 million of the revolving line of credit facility. 
Principal payments on long-term debt obligations subsequent to December 31, 2011 are as follows: 
 








 Year ending December 31,
  
Amount
 

 2012
  
$
0
  

 2013
  
 
6,195
  

 2014
  
 
13,805
  


  
  
  
 


  
$
20,000
  


  
  
  
 
 The fair value of the Company’s debt instruments approximates their carrying values as the interest
is tied to or approximates market rates. 
17. Reductions in Workforce 
In December 2010, the Company reduced its workforce by twenty-six positions, twenty of which were eliminated effective
December 31, 2010 and six were eliminated in early 2011. Accrued severance costs of $85,000 were included in accrued compensation as of December 31, 2011. 
  83 


Table of Contents


Item 9.
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
None.   


Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures  (a)
Disclosure Controls and Procedures  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as of the end of the period covered by this report, December 31, 2011, which we refer to as the Evaluation Date. 
As a result of a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the accounting for significant
non-routine transactions, our management has reassessed the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and have determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2011. 
Restatement of Consolidated Financial Statements.  On February 6, 2012, management of the Company, concluded that the
Company’s unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the interim period ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2011, did not properly account for certain acquisition-related costs, and, therefore, should not be relied
upon. As a result, management and the Audit Committee of the Company authorized and directed the officers of the Company to restate its unaudited interim financial statements. The restated 10-Q reports have been filed for the applicable periods.
 Remediation Plan.  Since the transaction date which resulted in this material weakness, we have added a
corporate controller to our finance and accounting staff. While we had processes to identify and intelligently apply accounting standards to complex transactions, we did not have adequate numbers of highly skilled accountants to provide for a
detail analysis, documentation and review of the acquisition of CyDex, which closed on January 24, 2011. This material weakness prevented us from properly reporting the financial information for previous interim periods, and we have filed
restated 10-Q reports for the applicable periods. We enhanced our processes with the addition of a resource with the ability to research and understand the nuances of complex accounting standards. Management will continue to review and make
necessary changes to the overall design of its internal control environment, as well as to policies and procedures to improve the overall effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. 
Changes in Internal Controls.  Except as described above, there have been no changes in our internal controls over
financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.  (b) Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal
control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of the Company’s financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the Company’s transactions; providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary
for preparation of the Company’s financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; providing reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of the Company are made in accordance with management and directors
of the Company; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of company assets that could have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements would be

  84 


Table of Contents

prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a misstatement of the
Company’s financial statements would be prevented or detected.  Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) as set forth in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control—Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal
controls over financial reporting were ineffective as of December 31, 2011 based on a material weakness identified by management as a result of inadequate staffing. The material weakness led to a misstatement of transaction costs related to the
acquisition of CyDex in our interim financial statements. We enhanced our processes with the addition of a corporate controller during the third quarter of 2011 with the ability to research and properly apply complex accounting standards. The
Company will continue to review the updated control structure to ensure management’s plan is effective in remediating the material weakness identified.  Grant Thornton LLP, the Company’s independent registered public accountants, has audited the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2011, based on the COSO criteria; their report is included in Item 9A. 
  85 


Table of Contents
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
Board of Directors and Shareholders  Ligand
Pharmaceuticals Incorporated  We have audited Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Ligand Pharmaceuticals
Incorporated’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.  A company’s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that
there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The following material weakness has been identified and included in
management’s assessment. The Company identified a material weakness in accounting for significant, non-routine transactions.  In our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated has not maintained
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by COSO. 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets of Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related statement of operations, stockholders’ equity (deficit) and comprehensive loss and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2011. The material weakness 
  86 


Table of Contents

identified above was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the 2011 financial statements, and this report does not affect our report
dated February 23, 2011, which expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.  /s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP 
San Diego, California  February 23, 2012

  87 


Table of Contents
Part III 
 


Item 10.
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  Code of Conduct  The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Conduct and
Ethics Policy (“Code of Conduct”) that applies to all officers, directors and employees. The Company will promptly disclose any material amendment or waiver to the Code of Conduct which affects any corporate officer. The Code of Conduct
was filed with the SEC as an exhibit to our report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and can be accessed via our website (http://www.ligand.com), Corporate Overview page. You may also request a free copy by writing to: Investor
Relations, Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, 11085 North Torrey Pines Road, Suite 100, La Jolla, CA 92037.  The other
information under Item 10 is hereby incorporated by reference from Ligand’s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2012. See also the identification of the executive
officers following Item 4 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   


Item 11.
Executive Compensation 
Item 11 is hereby incorporated by reference from Ligand’s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2012.   


Item 12.
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
Item 12 is hereby incorporated by reference from Ligand’s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2012.   


Item 13.
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference from Ligand’s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2012. 
 


Item 14.
Principal Accountant Fees and Services  Item 14 is hereby incorporated by reference from Ligand’s Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2012. 
  88 


Table of Contents
PART IV 
 


Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule 
(a) The following documents are included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
(1) Financial statements   








 Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  
 
47
  

 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
  
 
48
  

 Consolidated Balance Sheets
  
 
49
  

 Consolidated Statements of Operations
  
 
50
  

 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) and Comprehensive Income
(Loss)
  
 
51
  

 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
  
 
52
  

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
  
 
53
  
 (2) Schedules not included herein have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.  (3) The following exhibits are filed as part of
this Form 10-K and this list includes the Exhibit Index.   






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

  2.1(36)
 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 24, 2008, by and among Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, Pharmacopeia, Inc., Margaux Acquisition Corp. and Latour Acquisition,
LLC. (Exhibit 2.1).




  2.2(52)
 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Neurogen Corporation and Neon Signal, LLC, dated as of August 23, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




  2.3(56)
 
Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Neurogen Corporation, and Neon Signal, LLC, dated September 18, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




  2.4(56)
 
Amendment No. 2 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Neurogen Corporation, and Neon Signal, LLC, dated November 2, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit
10.2).




  2.5(54)
 
Amendment No. 3 to Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Neurogen Corporation, and Neon Signal, LLC, dated November 2, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit
10.2).




  2.6(53)
 
Certificate of Merger for acquisition of Neurogen Corporation (Filed as Exhibit 2.1).




  2.7(57)
 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 26, 2009, by and among the Company, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., and Moonstone Acquisition, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit
10.1).




  2.8(55)
 
Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., Moonstone Acquisition, Inc., and David F. Hale as Stockholders’
Representative, dated November 25, 2009




  2.9(63)
 
Certificate of Merger for acquisition of Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc. dated January 27, 2010 (Filed as Exhibit 2.1).




  2.10(68)
 
Certificate of Merger, dated and filed January 24, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 2.1).




  2.11(68)
 
Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among the Company, CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Caymus Acquisition, Inc., dated January 14, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




  3.1(1)
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. (Filed as Exhibit 3.2).




  3.2(1)
 
Bylaws of the Company, as amended. (Filed as Exhibit 3.3).
  89 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

  3.3(2)
 
Amended Certificate of Designation of Rights, Preferences and Privileges of Series A Participating Preferred Stock of the Company.




  3.4(12)
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated June 14, 2000.




  3.5(3)
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated September 30, 2004.




  3.6(20)
 
Amendment to the Bylaws of the Company dated November 13, 2005. (Filed as Exhibit 3.1).




  3.7(34)
 
Amendment of Bylaws of the Company dated December 4, 2007. (Filed as Exhibit 3.1).




  3.8(67)
 
Certificate of Amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company dated November 17, 2010 (Filed as Exhibit 3.1).




  4.1(4)
 
Specimen stock certificate for shares of Common Stock of the Company.




  4.2(27)
 
2006 Preferred Shares Rights Agreement, by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and Mellon Investor Services LLC, dated as of October 13, 2006. (Filed as Exhibit
4.1)




10.1(4)
 
Agreement, dated May 1, 1991, between the Company and Pfizer Inc (with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.2(4)
 
License Agreement, dated January 5, 1990, between the Company and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.3(4)
 
Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of its directors.




10.4(4)
 
Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and each of its officers.




10.5(4)
 
Stock Purchase Agreement, dated September 9, 1992, between the Company and Glaxo, Inc.




10.6(4)
 
Research and Development Agreement, dated September 9, 1992, between the Company and Glaxo, Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.7(8)
 
Supplementary Agreement, dated October 1, 1993, between the Company and Pfizer, Inc. to Agreement, dated May 1, 1991.




10.8(9)
 
Option Agreement, dated September 2, 1994, between the Company and American Home Products Corporation, as represented by its Wyeth-Ayerst Research Division (with certain
confidential portions omitted). (Filed as Exhibit 10.80).




10.9(5)
 
Research, Development and License Agreement, dated December 29, 1994, between SmithKline Beecham Corporation and the Company (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.10(10)
 
Lease, dated July 6, 1994, between the Company and Chevron/Nexus partnership, First Amendment to lease dated July 6, 1994.




10.11(11)
 
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release of all Claims, signed April 20, 1996, between the Company and Pfizer, Inc. (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.12(6)
 
Letter of Agreement dated September 28, 1998 among the Company, Elan Corporation, plc and Elan International Services, Ltd. (with certain confidential portions omitted), (Filed as
Exhibit 10.5).




10.13(7)
 
Stock Purchase Agreement by and between the Company and Warner-Lambert Company dated September 1, 1999 (with certain confidential portions omitted). (Filed as Exhibit
10.2).
  90 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.14(7)
 
License Agreement effective June 30, 1999 by and between the Company and X-Ceptor Therapeutics, Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted). (Filed as Exhibit
10.7).




10.15(13)
 
Purchase Agreement, dated March 6, 2002, between the Company and Pharmaceutical Royalties International (Cayman) Ltd.




10.16(14)
 
Amendment Number 1 to Purchase Agreement, dated July 29, 2002, between the Company and Pharmaceutical Royalties International (Cayman) Ltd.




10.17(15)
 
Amended and Restated License and Supply Agreement, dated December 6, 2002, between the Company, Elan Corporation, plc and Elan Management Limited (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.18(15)
 
Amendment Number 1 to Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated November 12, 2002, between the Company and Elan Corporation plc and Elan International Services,
Ltd.




10.19(15)
 
Second Amendment to Purchase Agreement, dated December 19, 2002, between the Company and Pharmaceuticals Royalties International (Cayman) Ltd.




10.20(15)
 
Amendment Number 3 to Purchase Agreement, dated December 30, 2002, between the Company and Pharmaceuticals Royalties International (Cayman) Ltd. (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.21(15)
 
Purchase Agreement, dated December 30, 2002, between the Company and Pharmaceuticals Royalties International (Cayman) Ltd. (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.22(16)
 
Co-Promotion Agreement, dated January 1, 2003, by and between the Company and Organon Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.23(17)
 
Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 25, 2003.




10.24(18)
 
Option Agreement Between Investors Trust & Custodial Services (Ireland) Ltd., as Trustee for Royalty Pharma, Royalty Pharma Finance Trust and the Company, dated October 1, 2003
(with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.25(18)
 
Amendment to Purchase Agreement Between Royalty Pharma Finance Trust and the Company, dated October 1, 2003 (with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.26(22)
 
2002 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated through March 9, 2006).




10.27(18)
 
2002 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, dated July 1, 2002 (as amended through June 30, 2003).




10.28(18)
 
Form of Stock Option Agreement.




10.29(18)
 
Form of Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Agreement.




10.30(18)
 
Form of Automatic Stock Option Agreement.




10.31(18)
 
Form of Director Fee Stock Option Agreement.




10.32(19)
 
Manufacturing and Packaging Agreement, dated February 13, 2004 between Cardinal Health PTS, LLC and the Company (with certain confidential portions omitted).




10.33(21)
 
Form of Distribution, Storage, Data and Inventory Management Services Agreement.




10.34(21)
 
Amendment Number 1 to the Option Agreement between Investors Trust & Custodial Services (Ireland) Ltd., solely in its capacity as Trustee for Royalty Pharma, Royalty Pharma
Finance Trust and Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated dated November 5, 2004.
  91 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.35(21)
 
Amendment to Purchase Agreement between Royalty Pharma Finance Trust, Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated & Investors Trust and Custodial Services (Ireland) Ltd., solely in its
capacity as Trustee of Royalty Pharma dated November 5, 2004.




10.36(22)
 
Amended and Restated Research, Development and License Agreement dated as of December 1, 2005 between the Company and Wyeth (formerly American Home Products Corporation) (with
certain confidential portions omitted).




10.37(22)
 
Form of Stock Issuance Agreement for non-employee directors.




10.38(22)
 
Form of Amended and Restated Director Fee Stock Option Agreement for 2005 award to Henry Blissenbach, John Groom, Irving Johnson, John Kozarich, Daniel Loeb, Carl Peck, Jeffrey
Perry, Brigette Roberts and Michael Rocca.




10.39(23)
 
Termination and Return of Rights Agreement between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and Organon USA Inc. dated as of January 1, 2006




10.40(24)
 
First Amendment to the Manufacturing and Packaging Agreement between Cardinal Health PTS, LLC and Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.41(25)
 
Purchase Agreement, by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and King Pharmaceuticals Research and Development, Inc., dated as of September 6,
2006.




10.42(26)
 
Contract Sales Force Agreement, by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of September 6, 2006.




10.43(25)
 
Purchase Agreement, by and among Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, Seragen, Inc., Eisai Inc. and Eisai Co., Ltd., dated as of September 7, 2006.




10.44(31)
 
Stipulation of Settlement by and among Plaintiffs and Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al., In re Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. Securities Litigation, United States District
Court, District of Southern California, dated as of June 28, 2006, approved by Order dated October 16, 2006.




10.45(31)
 
Stipulation of Settlement by and among Plaintiffs and Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc. et al., In re Ligand Pharmaceuticals Inc. Derivative Litigation, Superior Court of
California, County of San Diego, dated as of September 19, 2006, approved by Order dated October 12, 2006.




10.46(31)
 
Loan Agreement by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and King Pharmaceuticals, 303 Inc. dated as of October 12, 2006.




10.47(29)
 
Letter Agreement by and between Ligand and King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. effective as of December 29, 2006.




10.48(29)
 
Amendment Number 1 to Purchase Agreement, Contract Sales Force Agreement and Confidentiality Agreement by and between Ligand and King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. effective as of November
30, 2006.




10.49(28)
 
Purchase Agreement and Escrow Instructions by and between Nexus Equity VI, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, and Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, a Delaware
Corporation and Slough Estates USA Inc., a Delaware corporation dated October 25, 2006.




10.50(31)
 
2006 Employee Severance Plan dated as of October 4, 2006.




10.51(31)
 
Form of Letter Agreement regarding Change of Control Severance Benefits between the Company and its officers.




10.52(29)
 
Letter Agreement by and between the Company and John L. Higgins dated as of January 10, 2007.
  92 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.53(30)
 
Amendment Number 2 to Purchase Agreement, by and between the Company and King Pharmaceuticals, Inc. effective as of February 26, 2007.




10.54(32)
 
Letter Agreement by and between the Company and John P. Sharp dated as of March 30, 2007. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.55(33)
 
Form of Executive Officer Change in Control Severance Agreement. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.56(35)
 
Sublease Agreement between the Company and eBIOSCIENCE, INC., effective as of December 13, 2007. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.57(37)
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant Notice and Restricted Stock Unit Agreement under the Company’s 2002 Stock Incentive Plan. (Filed as Exhibit 10.318).




10.58(37)
 
Form of Amendment to Restricted Stock Agreement for executive officers other than Chief Executive Officer. (Filed as Exhibit 10.319).




10.59(37)
 
Amendment to Restricted Stock Agreement between the Company and John L. Higgins. (Filed as Exhibit 10.320).




10.60(47)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2003 and effective August 8, 2003, between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Schering-Plough Ltd. (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.61(47)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement, dated as of July 9, 2003 and effective August 8, 2003, between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Schering Corporation (with certain confidential portions
omitted).




10.62(39)
 
Amendment No. 1, dated July 27, 2006, to the Collaboration and License Agreements, effective as of July 9, 2003, between (i) Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Schering Corporation and (ii)
Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Schering-Plough Ltd. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.63(47)
 
Lease, dated August 20, 2003, between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Eastpark at 8A (Building 1000).




10.64(40)
 
Amendment to Lease, dated September 10, 2007, between Eastpark at 8A and Pharmacopeia, Inc. (Building 1000). (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.65(47)
 
Lease, dated August 20, 2003, between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Eastpark at 8A (Building 3000).




10.66(40)
 
Amendment to Lease, dated April 18, 2007, between Eastpark at 8A and Pharmacopeia, Inc. (Building 3000). (Filed as Exhibit 10.2).




10.67(41)
 
License Agreement, dated as of March 27, 2006, between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (Filed as Exhibit 10.2).




10.68(42)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Cephalon, Inc., dated May 18, 2006. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.69(43)
 
License Agreement, amended and restated as of July 1, 2003, among The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and Pharmacopeia, Inc.
(Filed as Exhibit 10.2).




10.70(44)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement, amended and restated effective as of February 8, 2007, between Pharmacopeia, Inc. and N.V. Organon. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.71(45)
 
License Agreement, dated October 11, 2007, between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Pharmacopeia, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit
10.45).
  93 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.72(38)
 
Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated December 23, 2008, among the Company, Pharmacopeia, Inc. and Mellon Investor Services LLC. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.73(37)
 
Amended and Restated Severance Plan, dated December 20, 2008, of the Company. (Filed as Exhibit 10.2).




10.74(46)
 
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release of all Claims, by and between the Company and The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, dated as of September 2, 2008 (Filed as Exhibit
10.316).




10.75(47)
 
License Agreement, dated of December 17, 2008, between the Company and SmithKline Beecham Corporation, doing business as GlaxoSmithKline (with certain confidential portions omitted)
(Filed as Exhibit 10.346).




10.76(48)
 
Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release, by and between the Company and The Rockefeller University, dated as of February 11, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.318).




10.77(49)
 
Exclusive Patent License Agreement, by and between Glycomed, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and ParinGenix Inc, dated as of June 18, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit
10.321).




10.78(49)
 
Amended and Restated Director Compensation and Stock Ownership Policy, effective as of April 16, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.322).




10.79(50)
 
Research Collaboration Termination Agreement, between the Company and N.V. Organon, dated as of July 29, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.323).




10.80(51)
 
Lease, between the Company and HCP TPSP, LLC, dated August 7, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.321).




10.81(51)
 
Lease Termination Agreement, between the Company and TPSC IX, LLC, dated August 7, 2009 (Filed as Exhibit 10.322).




10.82(53)
 
H3 Contingent Value Rights Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.3).




10.83(53)
 
Merck Contingent Value Rights Agreement (Filed as Exhibit 10.4).




10.84(58)
 
Collaborative Research Agreement and License and Royalty Agreement between Neurogen Corporation and Pfizer Inc, dated as of January 1, 1992 (Filed as Exhibit 10.35) (File No.
000-18311).




10.85(59)
 
Collaborative Research Agreement and License and Royalty Agreement between Neurogen Corporation and Pfizer Inc, dated as of July 1, 1994 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1) (File No.
000-18311).




10.86(60)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement and Screening Agreement between Neurogen Corporation and Schering-Plough Corporation (Filed as Exhibit 10.1) (File No.
000-18311).




10.87(61)
 
Collaborative Research Agreement between Neurogen Corporation and Pfizer dated as of November 1, 1995 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1) (File No. 000-18311).




10.88(61)
 
Development and Commercialization Agreement between Neurogen Corporation and Pfizer dated as of November 1, 1995 (Filed as Exhibit 10.2) (File No. 000-18311).




10.89(62)
 
Collaboration and License Agreement dated as of November 24, 2003 between Neurogen Corporation and Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited (Filed as Exhibit 10.43) (File No.
000-18311).




10.90(62)
 
Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of November 24, 2003 between Neurogen Corporation and Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited (Filed as Exhibit 10.43) (File No.
000-18311).
  94 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.91(63)
 
TR Beta Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated January 27, 2010, among the Company, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., David F. Hale and Mellon Investor Services LLC. (Filed as Exhibit
10.2).




10.92(63)
 
Glucagon Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated January 27, 2010, among the Company, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., David F. Hale and Mellon Investor Services LLC. (Filed as
Exhibit 10.3).




10.93(63)
 
General Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated January 27, 2010, among the Company, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., David F. Hale and Mellon Investor Services LLC. (Filed as Exhibit
10.4).




10.94(69)
 
Amendment of “General” Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated January 26, 2011 [original agreement was dated January 27, 2010] (filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.95(64)
 
Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated May 18, 2010, between the Company and The Genaera Liquidating Trust (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.96(65)
 
Purchase Agreement, dated May 20, 2010, between the Company and Biotechnology Value Fund, L.P., on its own behalf and on behalf of Biotechnology Valude Fund II, L.P. and Investment
10, L.L.C. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.97(66)
 
Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2010, between Wyeth LLC, Pharmacopeia, Inc. and the Company (Filed as Exhibit 10.1).




10.98(68)
 
Contingent Value Rights Agreement, by and among the Company, CyDex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Allen K. Roberson and David Poltack, acting jointly as Shareholders’
Representative, dated January 14, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 10.2).




10.99(68)
 
Loan and Security Agreement, by and among the Company, its subsidiaries and Oxford Finance Corporation, dated January 24, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 10.3).




10.100(71)
 
Supply Agreement, dated December 20, 2002, between CyDex and Hovione LLC, Hovione FarmaCiencia S.A., Hovione Pharmascience Limited, and Hovione International Limited
(with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.101(71)
 
First Amendment to the Supply Agreement, dated July 29, 2005, between CyDex and Hovione LLC, Hovione FarmaCiencia S.A., Hovione Pharmascience Limited, and Hovione
International Limited (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.102(71)
 
2nd Amendment to the Supply Agreement of December 20, 2002 and amended July 29, 2005, dated March 1, 2007, between CyDex and Hovione LLC, Hovione
FarmaCiencia S.A., Hovione Pharmascience Limited, and Hovione International Limited




10.103(71)
 
3rd Amendment to the Supply Agreement of December 20, 2002 and amended July 29, 2005 and March 1, 2007, dated January 25, 2008, between CyDex and
Hovione LLC, Hovione FarmaCiencia S.A., Hovione Pharmascience Limited, and Hovione International Limited (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.104(71)
 
4th Amendment to the Supply Agreement of December 20, 2002 and amended July 29, 2005, March 1, 2007, and January 25, 2008, amended September 28, 2009
between CyDex and Hovione LLC, Hovione FarmaCiencia S.A., Hovione Pharmascience Limited, and Hovione International Limited (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.105(71)
 
License Agreement, dated September 3, 1993, between CyDex and The University of Kansas (with certain confidential portions
omitted)
  95 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.106(71)
 
Second Amendment to the License Agreement of September 3, 1993, dated August 4, 2004, between CyDex and The University of Kansas (with certain confidential portions
omitted)




10.107(71)
 
Exclusive License Agreement, dated June 4, 1996, between Pfizer, Inc. and CyDex (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.108(71)
 
Nonexclusive License Agreement, dated June 4, 1996, between Pfizer, Inc. and CyDex (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.109(71)
 
Addendum to Nonexclusive License Agreement of June 4, 1996, dated December 11, 2001, between CyDex and Pfizer, Inc. (with certain confidential portions
omitted)




10.110(71)
 
Acknowledgement agreement, dated March 3, 2008, between CyDex and The University of Kansas (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.111(71)
 
License Agreement, dated January 4, 2006, between CyDex and Prism Pharmaceuticals (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.112(71)
 
Amendment to License Agreement, dated May 12, 2006 between CyDex and Prism Pharmaceuticals (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.113(71)
 
Supply Agreement, dated March 5, 2007, between CyDex and Prism Pharmaceuticals (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.114(71)
 
License and Supply Agreement, dated October 12, 2005 between CyDex and Proteolix, Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted)(Filed as Exhibit 10.22)(File No.
000-28298)




10.115(72)
 
Amendment to General Contingent Value Rights Agreement of January 27, 2010, dated January 27, 2011 among the Company, Metabasis Therapeutics, Inc., David F. Hale and Mellon Investor
Services LLC. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1)




10.116(73)
 
License Agreement, dated March 24, 2011 by and between the Company and Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 10.23)




10.117(74)
 
Loan and Security Agreement, by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and Square 1 Bank, dated March 31, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 10.23)




10.118(75)
 
First Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and Square 1 Bank, dated April 29, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1)




10.119(75)
 
First Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, by and between Ligand Pharmaceuticals Incorporated and Oxford Finance LLC, dated April 29, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit
10.2)




10.120(76)
 
License Agreement, by and between CyDex and the Medicines Company, dated June 1, 2011 (with certain confidential portions omitted) (Filed as Exhibit 10.25)




10.121(76)
 
Supply Agreement, by and between CyDex and the Medicines Company, dated June 1, 2011 (with certain confidential portions omitted) (Filed as Exhibit 10.26)




10.122(76)
 
Supply Agreement dated June 13, 2011 by and between CyDex and Merck (with certain confidential portions omitted) (Filed as Exhibit 10.27)




10.123(77)
 
First Amendment to License Agreement between the Company and Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of August 31, 2011 (Filed as Exhibit 10.1)




10.124(78)
 
Lease Agreement, dated September 5, 2011 between the Company and ARE-SD Region No. 24, LLC. (Filed as Exhibit
10.1)
  96 


Table of Contents






 ExhibitNumber
 
 Description

10.125(78)
 
License Agreement, dated September 5, 2011 between the Company and ARE-3535/3565 General Atomics Court, LLC (Filed as Exhibit 10.2)




10.126(77)
 
Amendment to Lease Agreement dated November 1, 2011 between the Company and HCP TPSP, LLC (Filed as Exhibit 10.4)




10.127(79)
 
Letter Agreement, dated September 29, 2011, between the Company and Biotechnology Value Fund, L.P. (Filed as Exhibit 10.1)




10.128(77)
 
License Agreement, dated October 7, 2011, between the Company and Chiva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted) (Filed as Exhibit 10.6)




10.129(77)
 
License Agreement, dated October 13, 2011, between CyDex and SAGE Therapeutics, Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted) (Filed as Exhibit 10.7)




10.130
 
Joinder and Second Amendment, dated October 28, 2011, by and among the Company, its subsidiaries and Oxford Finance LLC




10.131†
 
License Agreement, dated December 16, 2011, between CyDex and Eli Lilly and Company (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.132†
 
Supply Agreement, dated December 16, 2011, between CyDex and Eli Lilly and Company (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.133†
 
License and Supply Agreement, dated December 22, 2011 between CyDex and Hospira, Inc. (with certain confidential portions omitted)




10.134
 
Fourth Amendment to Loan and Security Agreement, by and among the Company, its subsidiaries and Oxford Finance LLC




14.1(18)
 
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.




21.1
 
Subsidiaries of Registrant.




23.1
 
Consent of independent registered public accounting firm-Grant Thornton LLP




24.1
 
Power of Attorney (See page 102).




31.1
 
Certification by Principal Executive Officer, Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




31.2
 
Certification by Principal Financial Officer, Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a), as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.1*
 
Certification by Principal Executive Officer, Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




32.2*
 
Certification by Principal Financial Officer, Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.




101.1**
 
The following financial information from the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 2011, formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting
Language): (i) Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, (iii) Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (iv) the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of
text.
  


†
Confidential treatment has been requested for portions of this exhibit. These portions have been omitted and submitted separately to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 
  97 


Table of Contents


*
These certifications are being furnished solely to accompany this annual report pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, and are not being filed for purposes of Section 18
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Somaxon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such
filing. 


**
Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, these interactive data files are deemed not filed or part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of Section 11
or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are deemed not filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise are not subject to liability under these sections. 


(1)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Registration Statement on
Form S-4 (No. 333-58823) filed on July 9, 1998. 


(2)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of and is hereby incorporated by reference to same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1999. 


(3)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004. 


(4)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Registration Statement
on Form S-1 (No. 33-47257) filed on April 16, 1992 as amended. 


(5)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Registration Statement on Form S-1/S-3
(No. 33-87598 and 33-87600) filed on December 20, 1994, as amended. 


(6)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1998. 


(7)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the period ended September 30, 1999. 


(8)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and are hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993. 


(9)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1994. 


(10)
This exhibit was previously filed, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1995. 


(11)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1996. 


(12)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and are hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000. 


(13)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2002. 


(14)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2002. 


(15)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and are hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. 


(16)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2003. 
  98 


Table of Contents


(17)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2003. 


(18)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. 


(19)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2004. 


(20)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on November 14, 2005. 


(21)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and are hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. 


(22)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Registration Statement
on Form S-1 (no. 333-131029) filed on January 13, 2006 as amended. 


(23)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with an Amendment to the Company’s Registration
Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-1031029) filed on February 10, 2006. 


(24)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006. 


(25)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is being incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report Form 8-K filed
on September 11, 2006. 


(26)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is being incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report Form 8-K filed
on September 12, 2006. 


(27)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is being incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report Form 8-K filed
on October 17, 2006. 


(28)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on October 31, 2006. 


(29)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on January 5, 2007. 


(30)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on February 28, 2007. 


(31)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and are hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. 


(32)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on May 4, 2007. 


(33)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on August 22, 2007. 


(34)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 6, 2007. 


(35)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 19, 2007. 


(36)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on September 26, 2008. 


(37)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007. 


(38)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on May 3, 2004. 


(39)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2006. 
  99 


Table of Contents


(40)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007. 


(41)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2006. 


(42)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006. 


(43)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005. 


(44)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007. 


(45)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 


(46)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Pharmacopeia, Inc.’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008. 


(47)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the period ended December 31, 2008. 


(48)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2009. 


(49)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2009. 


(50)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2009. 


(51)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on August 11, 2009. 


(52)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on August 24, 2009. 


(53)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 24, 2009. 


(54)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 17, 2009. 


(55)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on December 1, 2009. 


(56)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on November 6, 2009. 


(57)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on October 28, 2009. 


(58)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with Neurogen Corporation’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 1991. 


(59)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with Neurogen Corporation’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1994. 
  100



Table of Contents


(60)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with Neurogen Corporation’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on July 28, 1995. 


(61)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with Neurogen Corporation’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on November 1, 1995. 


(62)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with Neurogen Corporation’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2003. 


(63)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on January 28, 2010. 


(64)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on May 24, 2010. 


(65)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2010. 


(66)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2010. 


(67)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on November 19, 2010. 


(68)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on January 26, 2011. 


(69)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on January 31, 2011. 


(70)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc.’s Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2009. 


(71)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and are hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. 


(72)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on January 31, 2011. 


(73)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the period ended March 31 30, 2011. 


(74)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on April 4, 2011. 


(75)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on April 29, 2011. 


(76)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2011. 


(77)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the same numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2011. 


(78)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on September 9, 2011. 


(79)
This exhibit was previously filed as part of, and is hereby incorporated by reference to the numbered exhibit filed with the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on September 30, 2011. 
  101



Table of Contents
SIGNATURES 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   








LIGAND PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED




 By:
 
 /S/    JOHN L.
HIGGINS        


 
John L. Higgins,


 
President and Chief Executive Officer
 Date: February 23, 2012  POWER OF ATTORNEY  Know all men by these presents, that each person whose
signature appears below constitutes and appoints John L. Higgins or John P. Sharp, his or her attorney-in-fact, with power of substitution in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same
with exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that the attorney-in-fact or his or her substitute or substitutes may do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.   








 Signature
  
 Title
 
 Date





 /s/    JOHN L.
HIGGINS         John L. Higgins
  
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer)
 
February 23, 2012





 /s/    JOHN P.
SHARP         John P. Sharp
  
Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    JASON M.
ARYEH         Jason M. Aryeh
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    TODD C.
DAVIS         Todd C. Davis
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    DAVID M.
KNOTT         David M. Knott
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    JOHN W.
KOZARICH         John W. Kozarich
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    JOHN L.
LAMATTINA         John L. LaMattina
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    SUNIL
PATEL         Sunil Patel
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012





 /s/    STEPHEN L.
SABBA         Stephen L. Sabba
  
Director
 
 February 23, 2012

  102




